ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. There's already a quorum. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. And we go into the agenda with point one, which is legislative texts. Debate taken into consideration of the Proposal for a Law, to present before the Congress of Deputies, of the GG. PP. Popular of Galicia, of En Marea, of the Galician Socialists and of the Galego Nationalist Block, organic transfer of the ownership and competence of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u2	So we started a round of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] We started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u3	Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today for a second time in just over a year a bill to get Galicia to have the management of AP-9 and this is the first step to get not only an AP-9 Galician but an AP-9 Galician and free from abusive sins, which are a real scam. At first this was an initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block which, fortunately, had the unanimity of this Parliament. However, the unity of the Welsh political forces to achieve the management of AP-9 met a veto in Congress. A veto that for us is an act of contempt for Parliament, but above all, it is an act of contempt for Galicia and all those Greeks and Greeks who have to pay religiously for abusive sins every day. Let's not forget that there are 22,000 Welsh and Galicians who are trapped on AP-9 and that this highway is about 300,60,000 euros a day in beaches. So we understand that our duty as representatives of the Greek people is to do whatever it takes, whatever is within our reach to end this situation and to end the real attack that constitutes the high rates of AP-9. And let me explain to you in three facts why since the Galego Nationalist Block we believe that the AP-9 situation is a real abuse and a true dislate: First, because it doesn't make any sense that it's more expensive to travel from La Coruña to Vigo, which is 130 kilometers, than from A Coruña to Madrid, when it's 500 kilometers. Secondly, because the AP-9 isn't that it's amortized, it's amortized requete. Since the beginning of its construction, we have paid more than two billion euros in peas. In the last year of what we have official data, AP-9 has collected more than one hundred thirty-two million euros. And in that year 2015 the shareholders shared €44.6 million in profits, that is, one out of every three euros that pay the Welsh and Welsh peas on AP-9 becomes a net profit for some shareholders who think they live far away from this country. And thirdly, a fact that is significant: in the whole Spanish state there are only three highways that have some beaches whose concession ends in the seventy-five years, which is the maximum that is legally allowed. And, what a curiosity!, because of the generosity of the state two of those highways are in Galicia: one is AP-53 and the other is AP-9. I don't know if any of your lords seem rational or normal to this situation; I tell them: to the Galego Nationalist Block this looks like a real scandal. In the same way that we consider the veto of Rajoy and the President of Congress to be shameful and antidemocratic, the honourable Member elected by the province of Pontevedra, Ana Pastor, to a law that we unanimously approve in this House. A veto that is not only antidemocratic but also justified on falsehoods and lies. You lie like that the AP-9 connects us to Portugal, when we all know that this connection is made through A-55; lies like that the AP-9 is the one that gives entry to the main ports and airports of general interest, because in none of these cases it is made directly through the AP-9; or the lie — I would say — superior or sublime, as is that the transfer of AP-9 means an increase in public spending which little more than will leave the Spanish State in UVI from the point of view of the balance of their public accounts. All of this was done through a report -- we're going to call it that because I think it's too high a category for that role that was referred to the Congress of Deputies -- in which really everything that was said there was neither foot nor head. I encourage you to calculate what it tells us is the cost of the AP-9 ransom uses a method that is not what the law contemplates. The method that fosters is to say what's the average AP-9 income in recent years, and that's calculated for the years that would be left behind. However, the law to predict how the ransom would be calculated provides for another method, which would give a much lower figure than the Government tells us in its report. But there's one thing that comes out behind this report and I'd like to highlight today as well. And it is true that if we were to welcome what the Ministry of Development officially says, we would have to ask Mr Aznar for a very great responsibility, because when he privatized AP-9 for 1,500 million euros, and now they come and tell us that ten years later it costs three times as much as he sold AP-9 for Mr Aznar. I don't know if we have to ask him to pay off his pocket the difference from what he owes us to the Greeks and to the Greeks. [[Applause]] But neither in this explanation — I don't know if they're going to do it now again — are they able to explain to us why it's a great business to rescue the ruined self-roaded Madridns and, however, it's a fatal business to rescue AP-9, which is a central route to our country and which liberally pays would, from an economic and social point of view, mean very important advantages. However, since the Galego Nationalist Block, we welcome the continued unity of political forces on this issue in the country, that we do not accept the veto and that we put in place a new strategy, that without giving up anything, let us manage from Galicia to AP-9 as the first step to end the abusive sins that must be paid every day by thousands of Greeks and Greeks. We understand that from a legal point of view this law can no longer be vetoed, and we hope that the People's Party will respect the Greek people and that it will not give a new door with lies and falsehoods to the transfer of AP-9. Because, look, for many years now, Basques and Catalans have been managing highways similar to AP-9, and the question is, why did Catalonia and Euskadi tell them yes and Galicia say no? Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u5	...—and this concludes—I believe that this unanimity is also a responsibility for the Government of Galician Union, and in particular for President Feijóo, absent in this debate. This unit requires the Government to use its full-fledged defense of this transfer, not to repeat the old history that the Welsh political forces vote here and the opposite in Madrid, which does not repeat a veto that has no support from any point of view. And I hope that Nuñez Feijóo takes good account of the fact that the unity that we have today and we have in this Parliament is an added responsibility. And that you're told not to this AP-9 transfer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u7	...not only are they giving a door to the Greeks and the Greeks, but they are also showing that there are votes here that are made in an unconsistent manner and that the Greek Government, at the time of truth, shuts up when it comes to defending the interests of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u9	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill that we are going to support all the groups, addressed to the Congress of Members, we propose that the Autonomous Community assume the ownership of AP-9 and the Galician Union therefore have the powers over this infrastructure. We transformed the original proposition, which was not processed by the veto introduced by the Executive of Mariano Rajoy. And we have transformed that proposal by eliminating those aspects that can make it difficult — let us say — to be taken into account by the Congress of Deputies to make it easier for this initiative to reach a good port. One of the difficulties that will remain — but I think it is not — is your condition as part of the State Road Network. He had already indicated the previous BNG spokesperson: AP-8 was transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, A-17 and A-19 were transferred to the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, and were part of the State Road Network. So we have precedents as they allow us to overcome that difficulty that was included in the veto that Mariano Rajoy introduced. The question would be: Why can Galicia not be treated the same as the exhilarating autonomous communities? It must be said that AP-9 is part of the Trans-European Transport Network. But we also know today that with the transfer to autonomous communities it will continue to have the same condition, nothing will change in this sense. So here we have no difficulty. For years now, intellectuals in Galicia missed the existence of a central city that could be comparable to Barcelona, Bilbao, Seville... which had the same dimension and the same urban power. Actually, that city already exists today. Without realizing it, in western Galicia there was an urban phenomenon that goes from Ferrol to the border with Portugal, to Tui, which is precisely that city that these intellectuals have been demanding decades ago. And the AP-9 is the central street of that city, which connects all these urban phenomena almost without discontinuity from Ferrol to Tui, which connects six of the eight most important urban areas of Galicia, connects the three airports that have the autonomous community, connects the ports of general interest that are in Galicia, with the exception of San Cibrao, and through the autonomic routes — very important seven — irrigate — the whole territory and reach far beyond from Vilalba to The Guard. So, it's a first-dimensional infrastructure for our country, it's the basis of Western Galicia's territorial articulation, and that's its main role. In the report by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, it is said that it has an international connection function with Portugal. Which means an error in fact, because the one that connects with Portugal directly to the Tui Bridge is another way other than the AP-9. AP-9 doesn't get there, it's a few miles from that connection. But beyond this important question of whether or not it's a connection with Portugal, the fact is that the main function of this infrastructure is the connection of cities, urban areas to each other and the arrival and exit of traffic from these urban areas to other areas of Galicia and also outside of Galicia; this is the main function. And by the Rande Bridge they circulate every day -- according to the holes that are there -- an average of 55,000 vehicles, which is a very high figure. But a few kilometres south, within the same AP-9, the C-518-3 gate marks a traffic of 12,500. If the external connection to Portugal was the relevant one, if long-distance traffic were the relevant one, there could not be this great difference of holes. AP-9 is, above all, an instrument, a territorial articulation of Galicia. That's what justifies us asking for this transfer, asking for competition about this infrastructure. But AP-9 can be better managed. This preferred route of communication presents deficiencies and inadequacies. The first, and most important, is concessional length. The extension of the concession in 2000 to 2048 was a capital mistake, it was an error because it is true that it had some compensations in the form of works, but as a business is a ruinous business, we lost many things, among them the many benefits of the company, which is a net cost to this community. The transfer, if done before that moment, with its proximity and control component from Galicia, would have made it impossible to extend that concession. But the current operation of AP-9 means that users, through the fees they pay, are paying the works of improvement of the highway, preventing them from falling on the general budgets of the state. And, if you do, the corporation tax, which pays the concessionary company, nourishes the general government's buildings, and is higher than the bonus payments that the general government itself makes in some sections of the AP-9. Let's say without that highway, excuse me, without this highway, if this infrastructure was a highway, the General Administration of the State would lose money. The prices are excessive, in addition, the fruit and vegetable production of the Beer comes in better conditions to the Crown than the production of the Rosal, a payment of the peas —the Welsh—and the others do not. The metallurgical production of the Valladolid or Palencia contour reaches Vigo in better conditions than Ferrol's, Ferrol's, pays fees, the other doesn't. This is what AP-9 means, so we have to make a difficult effort to reduce fees; transfer will not allow us to reduce them directly, it is not a direct consequence, but it will allow us to discuss in joint transfer commissions the obligations of the General Administration of the State. I already make a suggestion for that negotiation. A quick calculation of what corporate tax means, paying for the concessionary company here at the end of the concession, indicating that it will be over 500 million euros; let's put this in value in that negotiation and transfer this to the lower price. The transfer is politically possible, because most of the Congress of Deputies has already spoken in this direction. But the initial task of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, and the Galician Union, is to overcome the resistance of the People's Group in Congress of Deputies to assume that transfer. If there's consensus in Madrid as well as here, negotiation will be faster, transfer will be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u11	...in better conditions and we'll be able to manage this infrastructure first, which would result in an improvement in the conditions of the fees to be paid by the Greeks and the Greeks for using AP-9. The objectives — and I am finished, Mr President — must be: to be able to approve the transfer to the Congress of Deputies, as soon as possible by a large majority; to ensure a good negotiation in the Joint Transfers Commission, in order to be able to lower the rates below; and to ensure better management from the proximity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u12	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u13	Well, good morning to all and all. Today we are debating this bill, which we are going to support, because the Spanish People's Party had no political will to approve the previous bill which was approved in this Parliament unanimously. That People's Party, and the Spanish Government, which used to block the debate of that bill's proposal for manipulation and lie, because in Congress it had not guaranteed most to do what they wanted to do, which is to tell us no. And that's why we're here, that's the first news. The great news today is that despite the support of the People's Party for this bill we have not guaranteed that the People's Party, the People's Government, Mr. Rajoy and Mr. De la Serna will support the processing of this law. The People's Party, the guarantor of Spain's unity, says something in Galicia and we don't know what he's going to say in Madrid. Unless today's surprise and the spokesperson of the People's Party announces something, we'll come here inquisitively knowing if this will prosper with the support of the Spanish People's Party. I mean, the Galician People's Party serves to put roofs on the executive of the People's Party, it serves to place ministers, but it doesn't serve to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, it's very good! [[Applause]] According to Mr. Tellado, we hope there is sensitivity in Madrid, my good management, yes sir! Today we are waiting for sensitivity in the People's Party not to use lies and manipulation to ban this debate. It is amazing the position of the People's Party of Galicia, which was the fifth essence of the People's Party in Spain, the great money donor of the People's Party in Spain and which so much weight should have in Spain. For none of this, as far as we can see. That's today's big business, the big news. Another news is that we had to assume responsibility, to try to move forward in achieving the total AP-9 government, and lower the conditional possibility that was established in the previous ransom law. That conditional ransom that supported the People's Party in the past legislation and which, on the other hand, used to divert attention and say that we were talking about rescue and that it cost a lot of millions of euros, and that to see where we were going to get the millions of euros, whether from health, whether from social services, etc.. That said the PP to divert attention, and it said it wasn't good business and that we were deceiving people. Well, what I'm telling you is that the bad business, the worst business, was what you did in 2004: giving Sacyr Valahermoso the price of friends — one of those who gave money to the People's Party, which appears in the papers of Basel — proved, this infrastructure, and now we're paying the consequences of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's a bad deal, not this one. [[Applause]] Yes, at the price of a friend, at the price of a friend, in a few years, in four years, Sacyr Vallehermoso sold it to Citigroup and got it, without doing a work of improvement to the infrastructure, almost 1 billion euros of surpluses. If that's not corruption, I don't know what it is. Well, besides, do you have the ransom cost calculated, gentlemen of the People's Party? If Mr. Fernández Prado will intervene, tell me whether the cost of the ransom has been calculated. Because I, as a responsible government, suppose they'll have to have planned and calculated that ransom cost to see if it's good business or bad business for the Greeks. I'm telling you some data from Audasa, from the dealership: the benefit rate was during the year 2015 of 46% of the income; that is, almost half of what is collected by fees are benefits. EUR 28 per 100 of the last five years were divided into dividends, among shareholders, EUR 132 million in peas amounted to EUR 44.6 million in net profits in 2015. It will improve this paradise of benefits, without comparison across Europe, because traffic recovery is expected and, above all, because 1% of the fees will be increased to pay for the works of the extension of Rande and the Circulation of Santiago. Audasa is the dealership with fewer employees per mile of highway in the state — 0.37 workers compared to 1.05 of the state average — with lack of labour and the dealership with a greater number of claims from users, although not the largest in number of kilometres, etc.. You've given a huge deal to a private company, gentlemen of the People's Party, and we're paying the consequences. And since we're with the business, which would be the worst deal too is not the ransom, which we advocate for the ransom; we think it would be a good deal the rescue after we saw these company numbers, and the numbers that are going to be from here to 2048. We defend the ransom, it's a realistic proposal, it's a much more beneficial proposal for the Greeks and the Greeks. That business, instead of having the dealership, we want the Greeks and the Greeks to have it, we advocate it. But what is bad business is what the People's Party is proposing. In the State Roads Act, you have planned a free highway parallel to AP-9, A-57, which is already making a roadblock for Pontevedra. Is that a good business? A highway that can in principle cost up to EUR 1 billion, with which much of the rescue could be faced, is going to be used in theory to make a parallel bus to AP-9. And I'm saying, what if that parallel bus starts running and it starts losing customers to AP-9? Because people will go for free and not for private. We would probably have to rescue AP-9 with public money, as we also rescued Madrid's radials, thanks to their big businesses, where businessmen never lose. Finally, the spokesperson for the People's Party that supports the Government should come here and say that he is safe and knows, and that he has the commitment in Madrid, that this will be processed and approved. You should come here and say: we calculated the cost of the ransom, and say what the cost of the ransom is and say whether it's good or bad business for the Greeks and the Greeks; and you should say here, too, whether or not you support that free highway parallel to the AP-9 and at least that contained in the State Road Law. For our part, nothing else, we support this bill by responsibility and because it can serve — it can serve if there is sensitivity, disk — to advance, but it does not fill our aspirations, and it does not fill the aspirations of the people of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u14	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u15	President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Members of the People's Group continue to wait for apologies for the slander spread against all members of the People's Party on social networks calling them women's killers. We're waiting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u16	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u17	In spite of this, I wanted to begin by congratulating and thanking the unanimity and consensus of this House that we recovered from the AP-9 transfer to Galicia, with the request of this AP-9 transfer. Although once the voices did not appear to be heard, but at least in writing, and with the affirmation of their vote, it seems so, that we agree. Because, regardless of the nuances and differences we have just heard here now, the unanimity of this House has its political significance and transcendence. And this is what we must strengthen. It has a lot of political value and significance in view of the current composition of the Congress of Deputies. On the other hand — and it is not a small thing either — I would like to stress the importance of the coherence of the majority vote in this Parliament, the Group of the European People's Party, which, regardless of whether it is in government or opposition, maintains an equal, consistent and consistent position by requesting the transfer of AP-9, regardless of the vision that the ministers or those who are ruling in Madrid may have, it seems that other groups cannot say that they are maintaining whether they are in government or opposition. If you don't get away with it, I want you to be clear, that if you didn't have a clear commitment to this transfer today, you wouldn't be processing and approving this proposal. As other times we talk about this subject, I think it is important to remember that, regardless of the nuances or the particular position of each group and the differences, what we really want is to get as early as the final goal, which is nothing other than the transfer to Galicia, as before, of the AP-9 motorway. That is why this unanimous agreement has its political value, which we must strengthen. As you know, a week ago, a proposal was jointly made by the four groups to process a new law to request to Congress the approval of the transfer and title of AP-9 to Galicia, which eliminated the aspects that were used to justify the judicial services of the Government and the Bureau of Congress the refusal to process the previous law. Thus, in the bill we are debating today, the maximum period of six months for the effective transfer of AP-9 is eliminated, and it is unclear that this transfer — literally — will not increase any of the credits or decrease of the revenue provided for in the General Budgets Act in force. Therefore, with the wording of the new text signed by the 75 German Members, the Central Government will have fewer arguments to say not at the request of the title of AP-9. We hope that this new bill will move forward in its process at the Congress of Deputies once these formal impediments have been excluded. And also with this bill the opposition's political groups have come to clarify their stance to stop fooling the Greeks, because it is clear from this bill that what is being discussed is the ownership of AP-9 and not the elimination of beaches. With this bill, the Greeks don't fool themselves by saying they're transferring AP-9 and they're no longer paying fees, because there's been parties that tried to cheat by saying that transfer would mean free pay, when that's not so. There's a contract signed, which has to be legally enforced, even with the autonomic management. Some of these things could be improved, but the contract has to be fulfilled. The same way that Junta is doing on the highways of Greece and that's going to lead to the tracking commission, you can improve the type and the fees, but we'll still have a highway tollage. They cheat again — and we always listen again — compared to the rescue of the motorway concessions in Madrid. They know perfectly well that it is done in judicial order in a contest and that, in addition, considering, as the judge well says, a signed-agreement contract, which is an obligation, as the same obligations that the Bipartite, Mrs. Pontón, signed the Bipartite when he ruled, and today they have the concessions that are in force in Galicia, the same as the Bipartite signed. Any ransom, gentlemen of the Tide, regardless of the cost, has to be removed from other games. As always, as I told you in budgets, they stop trapping the lonely and tell us where, which games they want to get the money for this ransom. And let me remind you that we are moving forward in these transfers. Last December 5th, the president of the board held a working meeting with the Minister of Development in Santiago de Compostela. At that meeting, a decision was made to set up a central government-autonomous bilateral commission to share all the management decisions of AP-9, and in that decision important decisions have already been made, such as the bonuses of the beaches of Barcala and Rande Bridge, which will be financed entirely by the Central Administration. On February 22nd and June 22nd and the Ministry of Development held the first meeting in Madrid and important decisions were taken again for Galicia, as can already be called for this month of April for the new access to the City of Culture in Santiago, to apply the necessary measures to alleviate the impact of noise on the affected areas around Round it — a request from this Parliament, which has approved a non-law proposal on the initiative of the People's Group — or to seek to address the situation of the urban truce of AP-9 in Vigo or also the measures to be taken and adopted in the peas on days of much traffic, especially in the summer. Even with this agreement and which we have made much progress, the Executive will continue to demand, like the People's Group, the transfer of ownership from AP-9 to Galicia. It is a clear objective of this government and of the group that supports it in this Parliament. I remember him the other day, because here are a lot of things to say if there's any harm to Galicia. We ask that the decisions of this House, this Bureau, be respected. I believe that we must also respect the decisions of other parliaments and other tables, even if we do not share the criteria or their resolutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u19	But, on the other hand, I also wanted to give you another thought today. We have seen here with a clear interest in defending Galicia's general interest as MEPs; Spanish Members are also interested in Spanish interests; sometimes they do not agree, they do not match the approaches, and that is why we cannot disqualify...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u21	...the Members in Madrid. Finally, President, simply recalling that the important thing is to maintain this unanimous stance on the processing of this new AP-9 Transfer Law to Galicia. This unanimity has an important political value and meaning and eliminates the aspects that have caused opposition to the handling of the previous law, which we believe will help this new bill advance in its handling at the Congress of Deputies. Congratulations to all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of the legislative text
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u22	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. With unanimity in the proposal, we shall put this legislative text to the vote. Close the doors. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the bill, to present before the Congress of Deputies, of the GG. PP. Popular of Galicia, of En Marea, of the Galician Socialists and of the Galego Nationalist Block, organic transfer of the ownership and competence of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This consideration is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u23	We are now debating the second item on the agenda, full attendances. Mr. Advocate General for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u24	This is what the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u25	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 September, citizenship gave a majority support to the policies and new proposals made by the People's Party of Galicia and its candidate Alberto Núñez Feijóo to build a Galician positive, a Galician positive that continued to respond to the needs and demands of our community. As has been stated in the 100 days of government of this X legislation, there is no need to confuse the trust given with a blank check; on the contrary, it is to assume responsibility and hard work the obligation to move forward in projects that have not yet been completed and to face other new paths. The Greeks and the Greeks voted to refer to the policies developed by the Galician Union in the last eight years, but they also marked the new duties and the work to be done. Every government action is subject to a continuous evaluation over the years and a final assessment when it comes to holding elections. In this appearance on the lines of action of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Ordination I want to reiterate the commitment of the Greek Government to defend our own culture and language and to bet on the future through education and the university system; a commitment that is endorsed by the social majority of Galicia and the results achieved in recent years, especially in the field of education. These two elements serve as a renewed motivation for continuing to implement useful and beneficial policies for all. The culture and language itself are vital and relevant elements for the present and the future of the Greek people. Both constitute an essential support for Galicia's advance. Galicia, through its self-government, must take advantage of the strength that social appreciation implies by the value of culture and language itself as a factor of our identity, while it must take advantage of the opportunity that they assume as differential elements and as a door to the world of Lusophony and other cultures. The pillars of the culture policy of the Greek Government for the coming years will be set up in four respects. The first one is to support the basic cultural creation and dissemination that facilitates access to culture throughout the territory. The second is to promote cultural and creative industries, supporting the creation and distribution of the professional sectors of performing arts, music, editorial and audiovisual fields of Galicia. Third, continue with the cultural, natural, technological and entrepreneurial project of the City of Culture. And the room, protect and enhance our wide cultural heritage. We believe that the first two aspects deserve a joint work on the part of the Greek Government and the cultural sectors of Galicia. We must all take part in our culture, and that's why in January last year we have announced the intention of designing a strategy of the culture of Galicia until the year 2021; a public document that will collect the main lines of action and priorities in cultural policies and investments. The Council will push this document, which must be the fruit of a common and shared reflection among all agents and sectors involved in the Greek culture ecosystem. The goal should be to help strengthen conserved and disseminated culture and also to strengthen the development and consolidation of the cultural industry as a source of generating jobs. We have a challenge that is not easy before us, which requires commitment and responsibility from all. For the first time, a government will promote a multi-year strategy that integrates the perspectives of the different sectors of culture. In this semester, meetings with the sector will begin to try to advance the development of the strategy with the agents of the vast Greek cultural ecosystem — institutions, associations, cultural companies — in order to carry it out. We are based on two assumptions: ensuring the maximum spread of cultural activity throughout the territory and establishing social and business fabric in this area. All this we want to do with participation and taking into account the different sectors of the country's culture: the editorial, the letters, the audiovisual, the musical, the performing arts, the visual arts, the cultural heritage and, of course, the cultural institutions. In this strategy, among other actions, there will be lines of work for the Greek book and reading; a common task of the whole society in which we must involve the agents responsible for cultural, social and educational policies, of course, together with associations and the private business sector in the book world. In order to increase reading rates for the population of Galicia, particularly in Galicia's own language, as established by the Law of the Book, we will define a specific reading plan that seeks to enhance training strategies and read competition. Through the planned actions for this year 2017 and on the horizon of the year 2021, we will focus our efforts, firstly, on strengthening the publishing industry of Galicia; secondly, on promoting the dissemination of the Greek book; and, thirdly, on dynamising the reading environment between citizenship. With regard to the audiovisual sector, we have started work on the development of an audiovisual plan in Galicia, with the aim of consolidating and providing security for an activity in a productive sector which is called upon to play a relevant role at the national and international level. Logically, Galicia's political action on this subject will cover other projects throughout this legislation, such as the launch of Galicia's digital memory. This is a collective project for the conservation, dissemination and promotion of cultural heritage. It is a long-term project, which will take place within a minimum of ten years. It will focus on the digitization, preservation and preservation of cultural assets and the electronic dissemination of the resulting assets. Another unique project will be based on the momentum of initiatives that facilitate access to culture throughout citizenship. Professional cultural programming and dynamization networks, the distribution of musical and stage shows and audiovisual programming throughout the territory will be enhanced. This is, of course, driven by Agadic, a guarantee of support for access to culture through cooperation and coordination with local authorities. We will stimulate the professional networks and circuits of existing shows: the Galaga Network of Theatres and Auditoriums, the Galician Music Network for Live, the Galaga Network of Salas, Culture on the Way and Cinemas of Galicia. We want this to reach all parts of Galicia, using the rich network of cultural equipment and containers scattered throughout the country. The creation of the brand Galicia Creative will also aim to encompass and project under the same public image creativity in different cultural fields and will also be a tool for the external projection of the Greek culture that will group sectoral projects that currently define the international activity of the Greek culture. Over the next few years, and in line with the previous one, it will continue with the multidimensional Gaiás project. The City of Culture, after five years of operation, is a progressive consolidation project; a project that operates as a technological, cultural and entrepreneurial referent, in addition to being installed as a natural, architectural and landscaped space. The more than four hundred people who work daily in the Gaiás, the more than two million visitors in these five years, and the more than 200 annual activities that are carried out in this compound give the idea of the progressive consolidation of this facility. In addition to continuing with the contents and projects currently in force, centered — as I said — on culture, enterprise and technology, it will seek to advance the expansion of the Galician forest with intervention on the south slope in its second phase. We will also try to cope with the landscape integration of unbuilt central space and define a plan of uses for the structure of unfinished space. As a matter of fact, cultural heritage is also a fundamental part of Galicia's collective personality and a source of wealth. Backing up retained assets and solving people, in collaboration with different administrations, are some of the keys that guide the process of cultural heritage management. In this line, during the past legislation was passed Law 5/2016, of May 4, of Galicia's cultural heritage. In addition to regulatory simplification, the new law defines new heritage typologies, establishes greater involvement and coordination with the municipalities and offers maximum protection of the Greek heritage. In the coming years, the challenge is setting the keys to smart growth. And for the protection and reaffirmation of our heritage wealth we are going to start — we are already beginning — a normative development of the former law, through the elaboration and future adoption of the following instruments: Framework Convention of Qualifications, in collaboration with Fegamp, so that the municipalities can authorize interventions in certain heritage assets and their protective contours. And two decrees, the decree on the creation and organization of the territorial councils, the Santiago Road Advisory Council and the Technical Archaeology Commission, and also the decree on the composition and functioning of the Joint Joint Catholic Church Commission. In collaboration with other administrations, in particular with the Central Government, we intend to face for the period 2017-2021 the execution of a plan to preserve the cultural interests of the Way of Santiago. It is about planning and performing works for the conservation and rehabilitation of the most prominent goods, with BIC category, in the various Jacobean treaties, and of course as referring to the year 2021. We have the responsibility, among all, to achieve a Galician that respects its cultural heritage and also its linguistic heritage. We believe that language must be a space that we should expand, based more on what unites us than what separates us. The Greek, as Galician language itself, is one of our main strongholds as a people. The language policy of the Union must continue to be based on the idea that the Greek language is useful in any area of society and for all functions. Creating positive attitudes towards the language itself and renewing the commitment to broadening its uses of society will guide the work of dynamizing Greek throughout the new legislation. It's not a political group or an ideology. The language does not belong to anyone we sit in this House, it's the citizens, it's the people at liberty, who keep our language alive, above historical circumstances, political or administrative. According to IGE data, more and more people are expressing themselves naturally and spontaneously in either of the two languages of Galicia. And as for the knowledge data in Welsh, more than 90% of the population is able to speak, write or read. The current challenge is to raise awareness that Greek is a tool that helps us to develop personal and professionally, both here and beyond our borders, in particular with the lusophone world. Two plans seek to promote and dynamize the use of Greek in two vital areas for the future and the future of our language. One who has already been approved, the reference to the economic and business fabric, a document with 314 agents and which provides for 81 measures. And another that will be addressed to youth; this will be done with the Youth Directorate General and we will seek consensus with those entities that have competences in the field of linguistic normalization, with the RAG, with the Galician Council of Culture, with the ILG, and also with the most active in changing trends in the youth world. Mrs. Rodil and other parliamentary groups, I'm addressing you because we expect your groups to welcome and support these plans. We are doing what you proposed in the last Commission 4th, and we have, by the way, been defending the latest legislation; that is to say, following what was planned in the 2004 General Plan on Linguistic Standardization: developing its most basic sectors and adapting this plan to the current reality, and, above all, working at those points where it is most necessary to focus. We'll also pay special attention to the new speakers. Very recently there has been a parliamentary agreement, and we are aware that we must make a greater effort to encourage and understand those people who, not being Greek in their original language, try and try to start using it. And, of course, we will continue to work in a section that started in the past legislation with the approval of the so-called Peace Andrade Law; that is to say, the approach to luxophonic culture, the approach to Portuguese language. By the way, the approach to this language and this culture has made us gain prestige inside and outside Galicia. In this sense, Galicia's incorporation into the DPRK or collaboration with Instituto Camões or the Portuguese Government are beginning to produce very positive fruits. This concept will also help us to internationalize our language, an opportunity that, of course, does not have the other co-official languages of the state, while it is also an opportunity for the positioning of our productive sectors in the important luminophore markets of the world, being some of them in the most emerging economies of the planet. Ladies and gentlemen, when I refer to the lines of action in the field of culture, heritage and language, I now set out the policies that we want to put in place in the coming years to ensure a quality education and university system that is fair and adapted to the modern world. The improvement of our education is a progressive process of time, based on a model of self-education that currently offers us satisfactory results in quality and equity. The latest data from the PISA report and the early dropout will thus believe it, and they place us as a community — without false modesty — advantaged within the Spanish state. Today Galicia has an early drop in education of ten points below the year 2009, almost reaching the target set by the European Union by 2020, which was 15%. Last quarter of last year, we had 15% and a few tenths. Today the student is better prepared in mathematics, science and reading, and so demonstrated by the PISA Report, that we approve of an outstanding, above all, as far as equity is concerned. And today our system means a clear and determined bet on multilingualism, ICTs and technological skills, inclusion and integration, the empowerment of FP, also on the autonomy of the centres and on achieving a good climate of coexistence that undoubtedly contributes to improving and promoting the continued improvement of teaching. In recent years we have faced a true silent revolution, but there is still a way to go about consolidating a more modern, justly socially and of quality, Greek education. Citizens are supporting what has been done in recent years, but we are aware that we are facing an ongoing evaluation. Educational policies always require a new impulse, a new impulse, to address in an integral and cross-sectional way the possibilities of improvement that still exist. We can't — we don't — fall into favor. The achievements we achieve can only mark the path to follow. A co-responsibility of the Educational Administration and the teaching staff: teachers, management teams, students, families, in the ongoing and ongoing process of modernizing our educational system. We want to strengthen even more the skills the student acquires to face with guarantees an increasingly globalized and technological world. For this, we will give a new impetus to the multilingual model. The multilingual educational model is enabling the student to acquire language skills in English, Spanish and foreign languages — basically English, but also French or Portuguese — that, far from stagnating, must reach new levels and extend to the student's whole. In the coming years, the Council will face the renewal and updating of learning and the empowerment of foreign languages at different educational levels. We are working to start in the next course 2017-2018 the progressive implementation of the plurilingual system in children's education from 3 to 6 years old, and we will do this through a specific plan that will take as a starting point the CEIP itself that are already multilingual at primary level. At the same time, we intend to continue the progressive extension of multilingual centres and bilingual sections in compulsory schools, and, of course, to advance also in artistic teaching, in vocational training, in Bachelor's degree and even in university, thus encouraging the SUG to have degrees in English as well. In addition, in order to consolidate the learning of foreign languages in society, Galicia will soon expect to change the rates of official language schools to enhance and stimulate the study of foreign languages. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can share the idea that in today's world — whether we want it or not — we are in an increasingly digital society, increasingly technologically, and the student in Greece needs training in order to acquire digital and technological skills as a basic element of social cohesion and equal opportunities. Therefore, other lines of action of the Council will necessarily be the reactivation of the real integration of ICTs into a model of digital education; a model that combines appropriate infrastructure and connectivity, up-to-date equipment, teacher training and digital content generation. Because it's not just about providing access to computer and digital equipment, it's about a real approach to teaching and learning that promotes the acquisition of skills and skills in the use and development of the resources that the digital world offers. At this point, it should be noted that, along with Amtega, the Galician Union recently signed an agreement to promote the connected Schools initiative, with an objective: that 100 percent of public centers have a connection, connectivity, over 100 megas. By the way, you are already assigned to an operator that is starting the deployment to have this network perfectly covered around 2018. Together with the reinforcement of digital skills, we want the student from the German student to expand his mathematical, scientific, technological and programming knowledge from the introduction of robotics at different educational levels, with special impact on primary education. Since the present 2016-2017 course, the student in Greece has access to equipment equipment and to the inclusion of programming materials in the ESO and robotics in Bachelor's degree, and we work to ensure that the next course is also in primary school. Together with digital skills and stent vocations, the Council is also committed to the empowerment of language reader understanding skills, something that is, by the way, evaluated by the positive results of the PISA report student. That's why we're taking steps to continue the improvement of the Galician school library network. We will soon present, in the same month of March, the content of the II LIA Plan of school libraries; a plan that will continue to promote the library as the heart of reading, information and learning in the centers. Another of the lines of action that we consider fundamental is that of contributing, from vocational training, to boosting the employability of our young people. In recent years, FP — the Vocational Training — has gained prestige and helped to meet the expectations of the student's work integration. Most recent data shows that about 80% of FP headlines have work, they have recognition. Last week Galicia just picked up from the Spanish Skills Championship, which was held in Madrid, seven medals. I think it's a recognition of the good work done in the educational centers of vocational training. The policies to be developed over the next few years have been strengthened by strengthening vocational training in Galicia, with the aim of making it useful for people, for students and for Galician society and for the productive sectors. We are betting on a new strategy based on measures such as the design of an offer adapted to the environment and the proximity and support to businesses, innovation, internationalisation and entrepreneurship, also the empowerment of the network of integrated FP centres, ICFPs, the generalization of dual FP, professional orientation and quality promotion, innovation and entrepreneurship. We also work to ensure that families are satisfied with the training that their children receive, with innovative educational programs that provide adequate learning, in a climate of coexistence, equity and social justice. We consider it a priority to maintain those initiatives that are helping to improve and improve the quality of Greek education. With regard to educational innovation, we see very positive participation of students and centres in initiatives such as programme contract reinforcement actions — we are talking about more than 100,000 pupils, 416 educational centres and more than 180 reinforcement teachers — or in activities linked to the Project Plan, where many councils are involved, and more than 90,000 pupils are participating in these projects. We will also continue to develop, disseminate and consolidate the measures grouped into the Welsh School-Conviving Strategy 2015-2020, which meant for the teaching of the Greek have plans of coexistence at the center level and also advance in the implementation of the different protocols: transsexuality, against harassment and cyber-acoustics, TDH, home care autism... in many of which we have been pioneers in the whole of Spain. And, of course, we won't lower our guard in terms of attention to diversity and development of an inclusive school. Galicia has the most inclusive education system in Spain, and we will continue to work to maintain it, with 9 out of 10 students with special educational needs integrated into an ordinary center. Finally, I would like to point out that the Education Administration is making an important - very important - economic effort, in terms of transport and school lunch, as well as the provision of assistance to textbooks and school materials for families who need it most, concentrating the support of the Public Administration in families who need it most. These are basic lines of work to develop a more socially fair educational model. At this point in attendance, I would like to express that this legislation should serve to empower Galician educational centres to be real spaces for learning and innovation, and, no doubt, a key piece is the teacher, who performs a fundamental work, the most priority, in a constantly evolving education. We must help and facilitate that teachers and management teams are up-to-date and up-to-date, and work over the next few years is about renewing and updating the training of teachers, both in the initial field, in collaboration with universities, as well as in everything related to continuing training, in fact, the Council is working, together with the Deans of Education Sciences, to determine which skills and skills are necessary for the 21st century teacher, and also establishing a system of support, guidance and training in the performance of executive activities in educational centres, with the objective of progressing progressively in the professionalization and autonomy of these positions. We have also addressed with the Director's Autonomous Board of Directors the intention of confronting training actions to help and promote their daily work. We believe that there is a margin of time to be able to convene in 2017, with the appropriate and necessary legal certainty, a public job offer of 1,043 squares for 25 specialties in primary, secondary and FP education. Galicia is today one of the autonomous communities with one of the lowest rates of interim teachers in Spain, and we also have the best teacher/student ratio in Spain, along with Asturias, but it is the desire of the Galician Union to be able to push — with the legal need needed — a process of opposition in 2017, which will count, as I said, with 1,043 squares. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work at a good pace to improve German education, and in this objective it would be important to be able to count, first at the state level and also at the autonomous level, with broad educational agreements. The society is demanding agreements and is demanding a great deal of agreement on education, and demands a positive job that takes advantage of the opportunities offered by education and what opportunities and gives stability and certainty to the education system. We are at a time of hope, in which we have opened a line of work where you can see the possibility of first reaching a great educational pact in Spain. And to finish this first intervention, I also want to refer to the projects that we understand are fundamental to the university system. We bet on offering Galicia and citizenship in general a university adapted to the 21st century. In the coming years we will continue to support our university students, our university students, maintaining the current tax policy. Galicia has the cheapest rates in the whole state. We have the most equitable university from the point of view of university access, and we also have complementary scholarships so that no student is out of the university system for economic reasons. In addition, we also want to reward the student's effort, and we want to empower, strengthen and recognize the work of excellent students. And in addition to these challenges, we also have a series of legal challenges that we understand fundamental: on the one hand, improvement in the titration map, and, on the other hand, consolidation of a differentiated, singular and international university research model. SUG needs to define an academic offer of degrees and masters that responds to social demands. The Council and the three universities have already started the modernization and improvement of the title map, under four optics: the first, certain singular titles; the second, homogenizing basic contents and diversifying through orientations the multiple titles; the third, introducing new titles with professional profiles of the future and high employability; and the fourth, betting by the field specialization. This is an ambitious, courageous, pioneer project in Spain, and we need to take into account at the same pace to be able to carry it out in a consensual way. On the other hand, and with regard to research, SUG concentrates 61% of researchers in our community and has important structures in different areas: biochemistry, biomedicine, technologies, marine environment, etc. It's time to consolidate a Welsh research strategy in the university field and convert the singular centers into the best letter of presentation from the Greek university system. In the past month of January we distinguished the excellence and the talent that make up the newly appointed centres of singular research of Galicia: the Cytic, the Ciqus, the Cimus, the Cinbio and the Ecimat, and the so-called consolidated strategic groupings: the Citius and the Atlantic. These seven research spaces will have stable funding up to 2019, in particular with more than 13 million euros, which will benefit the 700 researchers who make up these seven units. This bet on research wants to be a recognition of its efforts so far, but above all to relaunch its projects by focusing on the international agenda. And I'm done with this first intervention. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, we have marked an ambitious roadmap for the coming years, and we are sure that if we focus more on what unites us than on what separates us, if we respect legitimate differences and, at the same time, we work for Galicia in a positive way, we have ahead, no doubt, a lot of work, but citizens will be careful, they will be able to detect mistakes and they will know how to evaluate the correct facts, and we will undoubtedly bet on and improve Galicia's present and future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u26	Thank you very much, Counselor. We turn around the parliamentary groups. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mrs Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u27	Good morning to all and to all. It's already the second time you say "the silent revolution," Counselor, and I think silent no, it would be better for the revolution of the little ones. I'm going to put a recent example, in addition, to the thread of one of the issues that you put on the table, and of which we will have a chance, in addition, to speak at tomorrow's session, through questions raised by different groups and which is more up-to-date than ever. And it is precisely that call for opposition in the field of education, which was, in addition, announced earlier by your councillor, by yourself and by the Government of the People's Party. A government that, from the point of view of the Galego Nationalist Block, is acting in a consistent manner with the Spanish Executive in the face of a blackmail with which it intends to use the people who want to compete with these oppositions as currency of exchange in a process of negotiation of state budgets. A minority People's Party within the Spanish Courts that displaces the negotiating incapacity within the Spanish Courts, 500 kilometers away from here, from our country, and where it is becoming the opponents or people who want to oppose or compete with these oppositions in a sort of human shield. He's playing with interim staff, with people who are currently in unemployment and even with others who have left their job to study, generating, moreover, uncertainty, we believe that premeditated, which is intended to exert pressure on the opposite, I say, in the Spanish Courts. And in the middle of that game, you use as a political weapon the future of thousands of people in this country. There's not a single legal reason -- we don't agree with the argument that the People's Party supports -- not to convene the opposition. It cannot be appealed to legal security, because the budgets of the year 2016 were extended at the beginning of 2017, and with them the replenishment rate of the previous exercise. In fact, their counterparts in Madrid — we can read it these days in the press in our country — are already giving up their 2017 accounts and are looking for them to reach or reach an agreement for the next year, already with the look set in 2018. In fact, we understand, through the course of the events themselves, that they announced the summons knowing of this. It was yours in Madrid that left them a little bit on her cheeks, or we could almost say with her ass in the air, and as always, you chose to dance water to the Ministry of Farm in this case - not even to the Ministry of Education, but to the Ministry of Farm - in return - we understand - to defend the interests of this country. We use them to something, we use them to be brave, to launch a message of confidence, with absolute clarity, to the Greek people and to summon the oppositions already. I can assure you, and I dare you — with little confidence, in addition — almost speaking on behalf of the rest of the opposition's political forces that they cannot have the slightest doubt that they will count on the unanimous support of this House to summon those oppositions already, to stop acting on the mercy of Mr. Montoro's interests and to stop playing with the people who are waiting for those oppositions as May water. [[Applause]] But we also have to say one thing, and we want to say it quite clearly from the Nationalist Block of Wales, but already in the spirit of extending it to all political forces represented in this House: the blackmails of the Spanish Fair give evidence of the tight corset of this autonomy, which subject any Greek political decision to the particular interests of the Spanish State and even the partisans. We don't respect anything here, not even governments, not servants. Political sovereignty is what Galicia needs in order not to have to be looking at her eye constantly to see what is the occurrence of the People's Party or the Spanish Executive at every moment. And the call for opposition -- we understand in education, but also in other sectors of our administration -- is a necessity for this country, not a failure, all the time we've seen for years how this tax-reposition rate destroys jobs between teachers. And I don't buy you that argument -- let's call it that -- of ratios, counselor, because we know perfectly well that population dispersion -- and above all the schools that are still in the countryside -- lowers them, and much, the percentage of students per teacher. The needs of public education in this country — we understand from the BNG — are more urgent than waiting for the dictates of Madrid with regard to education. And we miss him a little bit, too, in his intervention. In front of a LOMCE which supposedly has the days counted, but which we do not know will simply suffer a slight makeup, a facial washing, or if, really, it will change its mind, we believe that it is time to assert the competences that this country has in the field of education and that it is also obliged to exercise the Government, which you represent here today, to start the path — we understand from the BNG — for the drafting of a law of Greek education. A legal instrument with which we have developed, at least, the competences that Galicia has in this matter — and which are not few —, you have just referred to many of them. A legislative project that is incorporated into our social, cultural, economic, linguistic reality... and which contributes to the fabrication of an educational system in which teaching according to a public service, universal and free from the age of 0 to 18 years. We understand that children's schools, in this sense, go beyond guaranteeing the right of reconciliation to contribute to the exploration and knowledge of the reality surrounding the children, to begin precisely by their own language, in front of — as we are seeing — a rupture in the generational transmission of the Greek, as we were able to verify with the data published by the IGE referred to in 2014. We also need, as we understand, an own legislation, among other things, to address one of the fundamental outlines of our country, which is rural, and which we miss a little bit in its intervention, we believe it has been absolutely absent. We understand that one of the problems to be overcome, or one of the problems to be overcome, in order to narrow down that gap that opens between the city and the village inevitably goes by ensuring access to schools and schools of proximity also in rural areas, and in particular in those mountain districts. We have to make a specific plan that addresses the demographic and social reality of the rural and mountain regions of our country, and that we do not meet with cases — to put a specific example that we will know many of the people we are here — in which there are children who have to travel by bus between 50 minutes and hour, as happens between Doras and San Román de Cervantes, in the Ancares, for example, to go to school. Drive for the deployment of rural centres — we understand — ensuring that the school is a service of proximity and not an egg or a brake so that many families can settle down, stay in rural areas, or even many others, return to it if they so desired. If it is true — as if it repeats us to satiety — that this is going to be the legislate of rural life, there they have a hand held by the Nationalist Block of Wales to design a specific plan that meets that concrete reality that is so characteristic of our country. "That law of education in Galicia, we believe that Galicia must also be founded on the future; our future as a country, our well-being, our coexistence and our progress are very intertwined, very related to our teaching." I don't know if these words sound to you, but they're literally extracted from the Diary of Sessions and you gave them your opinion last year in your parliamentary appearance. Faced with these denominational values of Spanish-speaking elites, emanating from LOMCE, and which led precisely to this legislation being massively rejected in the classrooms and the streets, we believe that we must develop in Galicia a legislation based on co-education, equality, tolerance, equity, social justice and respect and the inclusion of diversity, starting with our own identity. It seems great to us that you are going to write in the Spanish State or explore a state pact for education, do whatever you consider appropriate. But we understand that we should not hit, we should not fall back into the same stone with a frame that undermines the teaching skills of the Germans, which I already tell you that from our point of view are many and should, in some way, be drawn around that own legislation. I don't have much time left, you've got more than the opposition forces to stand up. But if I would like to make a specific mention of a question that you put on the table and that in Commission 4 we have already discussed on more than one occasion about dynamization, you call it linguistic normalization in the traditional language of this Parliament or this country. We welcome them again in that pursuit of normalizing actions and policies after eight years of absence, there was practically no action directed. But I'm telling you the same thing — and I'm done — that I told the spokesperson of the People's Party in that commission: we understand that the Language Standardization Plan is not being unfolded, that you are putting actions on the table aimed at youth, directed at the community or collective of neo-speaking people without any strategic planning that integrates the set of actions with a standardized vocation and that covers the whole population, starting with, we keep insisting on it, by the student. We must derogate — and we insist every time we have opportunity — the decree of plurilingualism. Now you tell us that you're going to take him to early schools, I didn't know if to take your hands to the head. We understand that we must restore the traditional spaces of use of the Greek language, starting with the school, which is one of the main socialization agents in our country. We're just going if we're keeping normal spaces in the English language to ensure that it's considered a useful language, a living language as it is. And then I think we're all in agreement. Nothing else for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, very good morning. Mrs. Rodil, we have to thank the Counsellor for taking fifteen minutes to talk about the silent revolution, nor was it to arrive and say so. In any case, Counselor, let me tell you, with affection and confidence: welcome to the republic independent of your council, because you did an exhibition that looks like the Ikea catalogue. This is the number of measures, programmes and initiatives which are under way in the Council of Education, and which you came here to deal with, which has left us — or at least me — quite frankly astonished. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Look, following the order of your intervention, you started out in the world of culture. What do you want me to say? We have just announced a cultural strategic plan, we will warn the rocketman, because this same ad has already done so long ago and it turns out curious that after eight years of government they come to make a plan, which means that, in fact, before they did not have it, and therefore it was all improvisation in the world of culture, to set up patches, as we have seen permanently denounce by this and other parliamentary groups. From 2009 to 2017, cultural budgets dropped by 55% — this is easy to see — a decrease that fivefolded the budgets of the Union. Therefore, to say that culture is a priority or that it was a priority is arithmetically unsustainable. Cultural companies have been abandoned. You speak of the City of Culture as a singular element of this cultural ecosystem of our autonomous community, the City of Culture, which represents — and we all know — even without works, 17% of the total budget devoted to culture. You speak of a miraculous plan for the recovery of the cultural heritage, including digitization, when the cultural heritage of our autonomous community — and we know well, without going further, those of us who live in Lugo — is completely abandoned; the allegations of associations are repeated because of the lack of care for that heritage. And 30 percent of culturally-interested property turns out they're destroyed and some of them, unfortunately, no longer exist. But we don't have a big problem to spend hundreds of thousands of euros on, up to three -- that is, 300,000 -- to some singular singer or artist to pay for their performances. In the meantime, with that money at best we rescued an important part of our heritage. That's, in fact, the bet of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order for Culture. You then spoke of our language. In fact, it's a common heritage, no one has to admit it's an exclusive heritage of an acronym. But the truth is, their policies are causing a process of disintegrating our society. And this is not what the Socialist Party in Galicia says; it is that the alarming voices come from cultural institutions such as the Royal Galaga Academy, the Galician Culture Council, other cultural associations, universities, obviously political parties, trade unions and other social organizations. English is the only language in the Spanish state that loses speakers, and that's also a reality. Now it turns out you're saying that they're going to put into operation a plan to enhance the use of Welsh in youth. You'll remember, that's what you said at your March 2015 apparition. I mean, two years later -- because we're in March 2017 -- we're going to put this plan into operation, or we're going to put the Government of Galicia. Two years later, and now he says, "Let's do it," and after they've been doing it for these two years? Because the Council was the same, the Government was the same, and the party that supports the Government was the same. This is the reality. You speak of the need for consensus on language, of course you do. But, as Mrs. Rodil has already explained to them, that consensus is to override that decree of plurilingualism, a decree failed from the point of view of the dynamization of the Greek language, but a failed decree, too, from the point of view of its essence of plurilingualism in educational institutions. And you know it perfectly, because it's very difficult to believe that any student or student in this autonomous community who, by simply receiving an hour of teaching in a foreign language is given to an educational center the label of a multilingual center will actually contribute to the acquisition of sufficient skills of the four skills in that foreign language. But, well, you distribute labels, and I wouldn't worry if you were to distribute labels behind the label there was a true content, but the reality is that there's no such content. In the world of education -- and I have to go very quickly, because, as it has been said, ten minutes come to nothing and there are four subjects; because your advice is a great counselor, of course, with many competences -- you talked about the need for covenants. Yes, of course, yes, all groups offer you pacts, all opposition groups present initiatives, and practically all of them end up having the same default destination, and it is to be rejected. We offered them a pact on the recovery of the Free Book Program, and you considered it appropriate not to leave. Recently a pact to regulate the distribution of materials related to the teacher, they also considered it relevant not to go forward. Two months ago we offered to pass a non-law proposal to ban the distribution of certain materials of clearly homophobic content in educational establishments, and you considered it appropriate not to approve that non-law proposal. I wonder what they'll do if the famous orange bus starts to circulate through our autonomous community and walks in front of the educational centers. Perhaps at that moment it is the competence of local police in the municipalities, it is not the responsibility of the Education Council that these materials are not distributed in the centres; that is the consensus that you want. [[Applause]] No, consensus is neither what you want, nor what the Bloc wants, nor the Marea, nor the Socialist Party; consensus is to reach common and stable positions. In that you are not, precisely, a qualified interlocutor to speak of consensus. You spoke here about dual vocational training. Look, I don't know if the members of the House know, you know, I know, because it's part of my profession; to stabilize the offer of dual vocational training of the 2016-2017 course — which is what we are — you have to publish three orders, three. That would mean something about improvisation with respect to dual vocational training or the difficulty of putting it into effect, because they published one order in June, another in August and another in September. By the way, the September one with a single centre; they had to be able to convince that centre to be included in dual vocational training. By the way, you're talking about the empowerment of the Network of integrated vocational training centres. Well, how is it that one of the top arguments for converting secondary education institutes into comprehensive vocational training centres is that dual vocational training is given, when in those orders there are nothing more and nothing less than six secondary education institutes, which are not integrated centers? You make a talkative bond between one thing and another. We recently denounced, last week, within that I Plan of Equal Action of Educational Centres 2016-2020, an unplanned strategic plan, without any specific activity in the Teacher's Training Plan to carry out that plan; that is, it's an empty plan, a plan that is a toast to the sun, to say: we publish a plan, but we're not going to do much with it. The teacher's situation with regard to the public job offer has been discussed here. I'm not going to repeat it because you explained it perfectly to Mrs. Rodil. But when do you think you will recover the working conditions of the teacher prior to the cuts in the result of that crisis?, when will you recover your schedules?, when will you recover your wages? He didn't say anything, so you don't have a plan? They have all the green chivatos, as Mr. Economics Advisor tells us here every time he shows up, and don't they have a plan to recover the teacher's situation? Do you have any plans to speak seriously about taking out the concerts to the centres that segregate by sex or are they still considering that it is something natural and inherent to social reality? Are you going to do it someday? [[Applause]] No, no, no, no. He didn't say anything about that either, because obviously they do have a plan, and they have an ideological plan, and you know that certain voters who need to agree with that kind of center. I've got to go finish. With regard to universities — which was the last of what you spoke about — in the economic field, Galician universities, the three universities, are at a level of funding similar to the year 2006. You also know that it belongs to that collective. As for the staff, who didn't say so, he said I don't know how many occupations, I don't know how many research teams. But the fact is that, according to the data of the National Institute of Statistics, between 2010 and 2015—the Government of the People's Party in this autonomous community, not the nefarious Bipartite—was lost at the university of the order of a thousand people between professors and personal investigators. [[Murmurs.]] You came here to talk about the wonderful equity and access to the university on equal terms. And I tell you — you know — that, according to the CRUE data, the State stock was reduced in Galicia by 21.32%, the biggest reduction in all of Spain. That's the reality of the university that you leave after eight years of government. So to close the IKEA catalogue, I in the back-door would say, "Check your product qualities before you buy them." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u30	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. As was said here, we started our intervention two years after his first appearance as counsellor, in which he had already warned of what would be the main line of his performance. And this looks like the day of the marmot, because he spoke at that time of continuity, and today he did it again. Yes, we know it's because they voted, and, as everybody knows, the People's Party has won the elections for having the best possible management of the education system, which is a question! That's why on Thursday, last morning, they've called a new strike in teaching, and we've already lost track of all that they have in their existence. But, of course, they must call them because their management and their educational model are unquestionable and unquestionable. You insist on the silent revolution. It must be his favorite joke or that the San Caetano glass is so fat that he doesn't hear anything at all; just like Thursday yes. [[Applause]] Continuity and continuity, he failed to say. Because if there is anything that defines your work, of course, is the continuity of the wrong policies of the last two legislations, and of course, complete follow-up and obedience with your heads in Madrid. In this, of course, you are unique, you have the dubious honour of being one of the few communities that have not yet questioned LOMCE, an elite, confessional, centralizing and privatizing law, which even governments of the People's Party have questioned; you have not, as you always remain silent. The same is true of the public offer of employment: silence and obedience to the dictates of Madrid. Mr. Román, there's a problem: you're not a delegate of the Ministry of Education, you're a counsellor of the German Government. And his first obligation would be to meet the needs of the Greek public education, which, as you know, are enormous after so many years of cuts. He knows perfectly well that they don't vary if Rajoy is capable or unable to negotiate his budgets, they'll still be the same. Therefore, their lack of conviction in this regard is not only a disregard for the uncertainty in which opponents and interiors live, but also a contempt for the educational system in their teaching, which cannot depend on how their colleagues in Madrid feel negotiating. So it's true: in continuity and obedience he did. What he didn't do was in the new impulse that he announced that first day, and that no matter how much one seeks, he can't find him anywhere. Unless the announcement of the new impulse meant private education, that there of course was it; in the linguistic model, but failed, at best; or in the City of Culture, that airport without planes that they like so much, that they not only finance with one out of three euros, one out of three euros dedicated to cultural activities in the country, but they have until they give them what is left of the electric ticket. This is indeed a real commitment to the country's culture, which shows itself to increase by just 1.76% in the crop budget after a real cut of nearly 65% since 2009. Please don't push back on the cultural activities they do in the City of Culture, be strict. You know that in these 200 activities you earned if you include things like car presentation, car presentation! If you do so, you have the courage to explain to us what is the cultural model that justifies as the activity of culture the presentation of a vehicle, because of course, there is little house with which we understand each other as a cultural model. And I hope you also enjoy explaining to us what cultural model is why the money of culture, so scarce, goes to finance the maintenance of computer services throughout Galicia, because in this way Mr. Fernández Gil justified in the budget debate the game that you dedicate to the City of Culture. And it really turns out to be incomprehensible. I wish, as I say, I can't explain it in the replica! He has appointed many plans and good purposes, but, frankly, Greek culture needs less words and more resources. And the planning of a consultancy also: more specific data and indicators and less declarations of good intentions. You have named so many plans that it is impossible to heed the IKEA catalogue. Data beyond school failure, explained in this House to satiety, which fully depends on the economic environment in which we are. You may feel very proud of the work done. Congratulations! He doesn't comply with who should, but he wants to. You will understand that we are not going to enter your subjective valuations, because they really give little to the debate. What we need, Mr. Román, is measurable data. You can't pretend to come up here and say that multilingualism is giving wonderful results. Based on what, based on assessments that were not carried out in breach of their own decree? And since we are, can you tell us when you plan to carry out these assessments? [[Applause]] 'Cause maybe it's time. If you want to talk about what unites us, withdraw the decree and go back to the consensus path of the Standardization Plan. Data and not words. Because if we say that you have the privilege of privatizing public education, and we leave it there, you could answer, as you actually do, that we are with topics and slogans. But if we go to the data, the reality is what it is, and we show that we're talking about a situation with specific data. In the last five years nearly 300 units have been closed in the public and 222 have been opened between the private and the concerted; that euphemism with which you hide the private education that we all pay for. We call this "privateization" and we call it "doing business with our rights." You name it, but it's data. Or when we talk about an educational model with macho gestures, we don't say so, we talk about an educational model that consecrates the centers that separate the student by sex, against the criterion of courts and, of course, against any expert or expert on equality; it's not credible. And you shouldn't be able to say without disrespecting that you have a commitment to teaching on equal terms while funding centres that separate children and children. That's why we want to use this forum once again to ask them to reflect on this point. This year's concert review has an opportunity to demonstrate facts, not cheap speech, that they are actually committed to teaching on an equal footing. They don't give a euro anymore to centres that separate the student, they don't give a euro to those macho centers that decide what it is for the children and what it is for the children. [[Applause]] But let's continue with the data. You didn't want to talk about the cut in teaching staff that made teaching one of the most precarious services, which suffered the most from the consequences of the austeriness that they impose on us. Today we have about 200 teachers less than before the crisis. And the excuse that you've done more with less is only that: an excuse burda, not to say, a lie. Because the average student per teacher, according to the Ministry's own data, went to Galicia from 8.7 in 2009 to 9.8 in 2016. And we're not going to get into the mistake of student ratios by class, which has already been explained here countless times that they're made up of territorial dispersion. That's in the public, because in private, of course, ratios go down. And unless you want to talk to us about a pedagogical innovation that we don't know, according to which the result of educational quality is much better when you hit classes, you assume that you're less likely to do it. He didn't mention the precariousness of public employment either, because you destroyed stable jobs by replacing them with people in pre-infancy and substitutions. So, in the two legislations that lead up, they're able to almost triple the rate of inter-internity. Let's see that this bad government of the Bipartite had managed to reduce to less than 5% the interintenence in teaching, and you in two legislates leave it above 13%! He's risen at nothing but eight points, and that's half. Because you know perfectly well that in specific centers and rural centers instability is much higher, which has a significant decline in quality of teaching. How much would the rate be reduced for public employment advertisements? Absolutely nothing. This is the labour model for the teaching of the People's Party: more unemployed and more precarious. We must also talk about the loss of working and economic rights of the teacher, how hours of education have increased, making it difficult to carry out fundamental tasks in order to be able to deepen in personalised education, as important tutoring work or specific attention to issues such as school harassment, cyber-acoustic violence or juvenile masculine violence. The plans are very good, but what we need, Counselor, is that teachers have time to apply them. Or we have to talk about how banks have been rescued at the expense of the salaries they took from the teacher, about how between cuts in extra wages and wage freezes they've lost them since you rule between 25 and 26% of purchasing power, more than one in four euros. His government has incurred a huge debt with this country's professor, so his recovery speech is very bad with the scarce dialogue they have with social agents to try to return what they've taken away from them, which has taken us all away, since cutting off the rights of the professor has cut them all and all of us, because the lack of working conditions of teachers has a direct effect on the quality of teaching. And honestly, it gives us the same thing as saying that Zapatero was the first to cut, because we are not bannermen of that government, and all we can do is regret the understanding they make with the Socialist Party when it comes to cuts. We should also talk about the increase in the ratios by class or the purpose that is not supposed to count for the ratios the student who repeats course, when precisely it would be an extra effort; or the insufficiency of scholarships, payouts in dining rooms, proofs of access to university and how its content has not been known until only fifteen days ago — you are right to be happy and to draw breast-feed in mid-February; the ostracism in which the Galicia School Council has; the lack of coverage of squares in specific guidance teams; the abandonment of university for economic reasons; the fact that you are 33% of the funds for R & D+i, which condemns us to a future with lower expectations. But for now I don't have much time left. The truth is, having only ten minutes to address such an appearance is a clearly insufficient time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. First of all, I would like to point out that the Members and the Members of the People's Group are still waiting for apologies for the slanders against all members of the People's Party on social networks, calling us "women's killers".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u34	That's the question, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u35	Having said that, I would like to continue the intervention by pointing to a question. I think we're, in addition, on one day, on the eve of a symbolic date and very significant for Greek culture and literature: tomorrow we bought a hundred years of Eduardo Pondal's passage, and the truth is that Eduardo Pondal, in pine cheeses and many other works, gave some visions of the twilight and portrayed the twilight in a very beautiful way, and in that sense, I would like to bring along some verses to initiate Eduardo Pondal's intervention, which said, "When it's day and it's not day, when you see it and you don't see it, when you pray what you believe and our fantasy fake fake what it is and what it isn't." That's a little what we have to live here permanently in this House every time opposition groups intervene. We're painting a reality that really escapes, escapes very much from what the Greeks and the Greeks perceive. [[Applause]] And I'm saying that this reality that you paint escapes much from what the Greeks and the Greeks perceive, because it's precisely them who are responsible for determining that this has to be the majority group of the country's will and you have to be the groups that represent, of course, legitimately, an important part of the country's citizenship, but not of course the majority. In that sense, they also have to have respect for what we present and represent the others. Mr. Álvarez, you spoke in a very jolly tone of the Ikea catalogue and gave us at the end of your speech a recommendation to review the quality of the product before buying it. Look, of course, the Greeks and the Greeks proved to be very responsible consumers when last September they chose what product they had to buy and put this group as a majority representation group in the House. [[Applause]] The truth is that there was also a lot of joke about the silent revolution, the concept of silent revolution. You, obviously, opposition groups, are more prone to that banner statism; that is to say, we put ourselves behind a banner but for nothing to change. We prefer to make silent revolutions, that is, without making a lot of noise, to change things for the better. That's the position this group has and the line we understand that we have to follow the German Government. I understand that bothers, I understand that bothers, I understand that prays, because sometimes reality is uncomfortable and in this case it is one of them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You spoke in many of your speeches about the call for opposition. Basically Mrs. Rodil focused on this issue and even mentioned that it would not be right to play with people, that she was somehow playing with people, with opponents. Home!, I think we can all agree on the fact that what would soon be playing with people would not be equipping the personnel selection process of maximum legal security, and if we all understand that we should not play with people, we'll have to watch out for the legal security criteria to be as much as possible. And I am also deeply moved by the fact that you're talking about playing with people, because I'm going to remind you, because they also talked about arguments that were raised in the budget debate, which you raised in the budget debate for the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The BNG proposed withdrawing all the funds intended for concerted education. You know what that meant? That would be to play with people, because I was supposed to leave tens of thousands of students out of school and leave tens of thousands of teachers out of work. That's just to play with people. So, they don't come by giving lessons from what they're after, when they have a chance to formulate their political stance, what they do is of course absolute fears. I think we should bear in mind that in the presence of the councillor many important issues were discussed in the field of the Council's competence. They just mentioned or passed a little bit of spit — if I may say so — by the Strategy of Greek Culture 2017-2021. I understand that you are not interested in talking about the Strategy of Galician Culture, because we are talking about a participatory process, a process in which you intend to collect the approaches of the entire fabric, both economic and social, of the field of culture and therefore a document that must ultimately be the result of the work done among all, hand in hand, to define what is the way to follow the culture of Greece towards the 2021 horizon. And I know that you like more than participatory policy and not participatory cultural policy, but for example "order and command" policy. I'll give you an example. Today, when I came here, I found a very curious example in one of these municipalities, we're talking about a very important city, a very important city, the capital of Spain, governed by one of these new country parties, which decided unilaterally, without the consensus of the entire community, of the entire cultural fabric, to withdraw the name of Max Aub and Fernando Arrabal to two rooms in El Matadero, one of the cultural infrastructures of the Madrid Town Hall. The truth is that it is significant how we preach on the one hand that we are advocates of participatory politics and when we have to make decisions we do just the opposite. In this sense, here in Galicia we have a responsible government that advocates the participation of all the cultural agents involved in the sector and therefore aims to design and develop a strategy that contains the highest consensus and that allows us to value all that is done and all that is done very well in the cultural sector in Galicia. But, besides, you haven't talked about any of the policies that the Council announced in favor of book and reading, of support for the audiovisual sector, of the launch of Galicia's digital memory, of the creation of the Galicia Creative brand. As a cultural heritage, little has also been spent on the issue, omitting important aspects, such as the plan to preserve the cultural interests of the Way of Santiago. And then we're, as always, also in one of the hottest and most recurrent issues, which is the debate of confrontation around linguistic policy. And I will not tire of repeating, every time I go up to this gallery and every time I have a chance to speak in this House, that linguistic policy has to be a policy of consensus and not of confrontation. And we have a consensus paper and a consensus framework—the advisor said that—the general plan of linguistic normalisation, of the year 2004. Mrs. Rodil in her speech welcomed us to that plan. You don't have to welcome us to a place we've never left. We are precisely in the development of that plan at all times. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, in fact, you know very well that this plan too was, of course, unanimously adopted under a People's Party government. We — I say — understand that we must continue to develop what is envisaged in the General Linguistic Standardization Plan. By the way, we are going to develop this general plan for linguistic normalization, as could be the case with the plan for the dynamisation of the Greek in the field of youth, and then we have to find that the Nationalist Block Galego votes against that plan. Well, of course, who comes out of the framework of the General Linguistic Standardization Plan? Well, probably in this case it's not the majority group. We must also point out and value — and I think the counselor did so — the importance of our language to the link with the Lusophony. In this sense, we have a very important tool as the Peace Andrade Law, a tool that also put in value the President of the Council of Culture in his budget appearance in Commission 4a, and which is the excellent framework for providing the Greek language and the spokespersons of a broad spectrum of relation in not only the Greek field, but also the international one. And in that sense, we believe that these measures must be put into effect, that this legislative text must be put into force and, therefore, that policies should be developed and actions must be carried out, as the adviser pointed out, in this area, in this direction. Theme of education. Of course, we understand that it is essential in the field of education to ensure a quality education and university system, and in that sense we also understand that many of the data that are being collected lately, both data from the PISA report and early abandonment data, come to make sure that something is doing well. Obviously, in education, as in all areas of life, you can never give anything for a fact, but there is always a lot of way to go, a lot of way to go; ultimately, it's a process of constant improvement. But, of course, when the data say it's in the right direction, there's no reason to be alarmist and pretend to change what works. We understand that. They didn't talk about any new impulse... well, yes, they did, but clearly, about the new impulse to multilingual teaching, the digital and technological teaching strategy in Galicia, the new school library plan, the empowerment of FP. We understand that vocational training must be on the territory. The vocational training titrations that are given at the different centres must have a link and a unity with the territory in which they are given, because this enables the dynamizing of the economic fabric, the social fabric. Finally, they also have to be a form of relationship between society and school, and in that sense we understand that it is important to approach and support the company, innovation, internationalization and the entrepreneurship of vocational training. We've also talked about the inclusion of the German educational system. As the advisor pointed out, we are in the most inclusive educational system at all national level, and this is possible thanks to tools such as the Welsh School Living Strategy 2015-2020. Finally, as I told you earlier, I think we have to step aside — and with this over — certain catastrophic visions of reality and certain paintings... I spoke to you in Commission 4 at a time to Mrs. Rodil also that they wanted to constantly paint a Comala, alluding to that text by Juan Rulfo, Pedro Paramo; you are constantly trying to paint a Comala, convert Galicia to Comala, and really Galicia is a country with a future, Galicia is a country with hope and Galicia is a working country and who knows how to choose and politically decide what is appropriate for you at every moment and thus proves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u36	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Replica, Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a reflection before I begin to answer, and it's a reflection I think generic, and part of the next one. Obviously, we have political differences and perceptions of what is happening in the country. That's very good, that's very good because there's no doubt a single solution to a problem; I think that's tremendously positive. But in the end, there's always a judge who's implacable, that judge is time. Time at the end gives and takes away reasons and he's an implacable judge. I, who have already started to have some experience in this House, attend a lot of debates, a lot of debates, which have questioned absolutely any political initiative promoted by this party or by this government in the field of education. They were all questioned with ferocity and power on their part. Interestingly, when they were implemented, developed, put into operation and if they saw the results, the critique automatically changed. The Project Plan was not bad, the program contracts were not bad, the CIFPs were not bad, or few. I mean, they changed their speech when they saw that the policies and initiatives promoted by this government were well-focused. And always, we have always seen this way of proceeding by the opposition groups. With which eventually, as I said, time is always the best judge. Ladies and gentlemen, the policies — those of any government, of course — are always subject to continuous evaluation; we are talking, in education, of continuous evaluation, and ultimately there is a final evaluation. And the final assessment is the electoral process, and I think that here our note fortunately over the last few years -- I don't say fortunately to the People's Party, fortunately to Galicia -- has overcome the catastrophic climate that you present to us. Ladies and gentlemen, I will organize the answer by making a block of those issues that the three political groups have repeatedly dealt with, and then I will respond, also in my own time, to the specific cases of each of the groups. One of the issues raised by the three opposition formations has to do with the offer of public employment, with the oppositions. I think our posture is known. Does the Government of Galicia want opposition? Yes. The Government of Galician Union is doing everything you have to do to push the opposition? Yes. Does the Government of Galicia want legal security? Yes. The Galician Government has the utmost respect for the opponents and wants to prevent some kind of problem from arising with the opponents in an unwarranted opposition? Yes. Do we like uncertainty? No, no, no, no. I tell him we don't like uncertainty. But I also say, are we working, working to try to provide legal certainty with this process? Yes. With which, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important that we be aware of what we are saying, because you, by the way, in some autonomous communities where the Socialist Party governs those left-wing formations that have different names according to which territory, but that have a common umbrella, in some autonomous communities, they have called, or they say they will call, and in others they do not call. What would you say -- imagine, because it's already happened -- are the oppositions summoned? Do we mobilize fifteen thousand or more young people who have put their vital hope in this selective process if, after "x" months, because of the circumstances, those oppositions are declared null? What would you say? And I also tell them: it happened, it happened in Andalusia in 2012, without going further, which arrived at the Constitutional. With which I believe that our will is clearly manifested. We did everything in our hand. Last week, at the sectoral table itself, we launched a number of squares, 1,043: 540 in secondary school, 80 in FP, 400 in all primary specialties and 23 for music teachers and performing arts. So be assured that the will of this government is to push them, with the necessary legal certainty, so as not to put the opponents in a boundless calexion. I also tell you that once we have certainty and legal security, the next day Galicia is in a position to convene an OPE, which we believe will allow more than a thousand new teachers officers to be present in the public system. And look, here's a question I question. It's about precariousness. Ladies and gentlemen, you here said it was important to have data, and I'm going to put it on the data table. Galicia has an interim rate of 13%, of the lowest in the state, which has increased in recent years, but why has it increased in recent years? Because they should know -- you know, what happens is that they don't say it -- that since 2010 there has been a repositioning rate, driven by a socialist government, which made it impossible to convene opposition squares, and it had to be a government of the People's Party, when it arrived in the State Government, which raised the replenishment rate, first to fifty percent and now to 100 percent. With which, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you are proposing data and obviously you are, it was the Socialist Party that put that rate of replacement in place. And that's a real data, it's a real data, absolutely real data. Or are you going to deny it now? Home! [[Applause]] So if you now deny that the 2010 replenishment rate, where ten percent was fixed, made it a socialist government, because it's better to leave each one to your home, because it's not worth being here, if you're questioning something as objective and real as that. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Man, we can disagree in other things, but we can't disagree in that. The ten percent replenishment rate has been put on by Government Zapatero; if we disagree on it, we're gone now, because it doesn't make sense that we're here. In any case, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to play with the opponents. Oppositions? Yes. Are you sure you're legal? Yes. And he's working to do it? Yes. And you think they have little memory, because if you had memory, a few months ago, just a few months ago, you were questioning, also with great ferocity, that it was taking a long time to put in motion the proof of -- you said revalid -- second of a bachelor's degree. He said, "You're working to have the evidence in time, and it's been published very recently in the newsletter." With which, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that we are in time, that we are working and that we are not playing with the illusions of thousands of Thursdays, that it is very important that you have a legal certainty at such an important step as what you want to give, that is to present yourself to a selective process. The second big issue you raised has to do with the education pact, which you questioned. It is true that Spain, in the democratic period, has a head of education, which was the inability to put in place a great educational consensus at the state level. Our democratic history is haunted by successive organic laws – – by the way, all socialists, except the last – – that I understand they did not give the precise results; otherwise, they would not have had to be changed so many times. Well, we're in the middle of an opportunity, we have a framework in which it's possible to find an agreement, and in this state pact on education it's working, and I think that I should work calmly, out of confrontation and also giving certainty to the system, and here Galicia has a lot to say and will, of course, provide real and responsible collaboration. Because also, without false modesty, we have experience in some areas and we have good results: in multilingualism, in coexistence, in inclusive education, in the balance of co-official languages, in the specialization of university campuses, in funding for results, and I believe that we can contribute there. And the strike was also mentioned. Look at you, we respect, of course, the strike — it can't be any other way — but I also tell you that maybe it's not right at the moment. We regret the timing of the call, because we're in a climate that doesn't demand strikes, and I understand that certain groups are going to strike because to make themselves heard, even if they have other mechanisms. But I also hope that other groups are not playing with a double fight, with a fight asking for consensus and another fight asking for or calling for strike, I hope, because it would really be a matter that would put them in a very difficult moral situation to maintain. With regard to the specific cases of each group, and beginning with the BNG, silent revolution, Mrs. Olalla Rodil. In the last part-session this issue was customary, there was a fellow Member of his from the province who also questioned him. And I'm going to tell you that we are proud to achieve this silent revolution. Why? Because we were able to transform and achieve an integral improvement of the education system in an unquenchable way, as you said. By the way, there came out a little the branch of that complex of superiority: they are little, little, like the country of dwarves; there came out a branch of a certain complex when he said, "No, it's not a silent revolution, it's a revolution of the dwarves." Home!, if you say so with the sense that I hope you didn't say it, because that branch that I hope it won't be, because a revolution was made of the hands of the families, the hands of the students, the hands of the teachers, the hands of the management teams and the hands of the administration, and we were able — the data are on the table — to revolutionize the education system, for the good. And we did it without scratches, we made it noiseless, we did it with a lot of work, with a lot of responsibility and with a lot of complicity: the centers, the teachers and the directors. And that's what it was and it's a true silent revolution. [[Applause]] And what is your concern? A German law. The BNG's concern in education is a Greek law of education. You didn't speak at any time of the drop in school failure, you didn't talk about the best skills, you didn't talk about the new learning methodologies, you didn't talk about the teacher's training, you didn't talk about pedagogical innovation, you didn't talk about the reinforcement of vocational training, you didn't talk about anything at all; you just talked about having a Greek law. For that is the educational model of the Block and itss; we respect it, even though we understand it not only this party, but they understand it by the Greeks, that they are only wrong with that proposal. And with regard to the Socialist Party, Ikea's catalogue. I think there was an electoral process where you know there was a political formation that if you used an Ikea catalogue -- and, by the way, they didn't buy it from the Greeks -- served to have more votes than you did, that's right, but it didn't do it for much more. But if you say in the sense of Ikea catalogue that it is therefore an exhibition of very broad educational products and for the whole of citizenship, then yes, then our electoral program and our politics and my appearance is a catalogue of Ikea; and in that sense, yes; for the whole of citizens it is a vast program of actions and work; in that sense I absolutely buy that claim. [[Laughter]] You've talked about the goods of cultural interest. You know that the maintenance of heritage goods, by law, has always corresponded to its owners, and you know some council -- you're sure -- you know perfectly well that it's not the best example for the conservation of the BICs it contains. The owners of your property are the ones who have to, and to you, who knows the cases perfectly, would ask him to be a little more careful. You also quoted — speaking of language — two plans were announced. In fact, at one meeting I announced earlier that two plans were going to be made, by this order: first, the plan in the socio-economic field; second, the plan of empowerment of young people. The first one is done, it is approved, it is driven, it is consensual and with actions that are taking place; and now we're going to start the second one. We did one, as we said, and now we're going to do the second, but that's something logical, to do first and then the other. And you talk about multilingualism and you say it's failed. I don't know if it's failed or if some people can understand that it's failed, but what I do know is that it's being an inspiration in other autonomous communities and autonomous communities not governed by the People's Party are being inspired by this decree. And look, it's allowing and allowing a balance of official languages, and it has allowed us to have at this moment in Galicia the maximum oral knowledge, written and reading in Welsh, which is what we have to guarantee teaching. The education system has to guarantee the greatest knowledge of the Greek. Use is an individual issue, of each person's freedom, and that's a question where we don't agree with the parties that we defend freedom and the parties that want to tell people how to talk; we don't agree. But the education system is fulfilling its functions. And you also talked about parliamentary agreements. Look, I've been a member of this House in the past two legislates, but I've brought many initiatives to promote different projects, programmes and actions in the field of education and other matters, also in urbanism and in the management of the territory. And I'm going to give you an example that came to mind now so that you can also see the momentum in the search for consensus that your group has set in motion. I remember an important law for the country, very important for the country, in which a dictatorship was made. In that statement we approved 100 percent of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party. What was the vote of the Socialist Party? "No," despite accepting the 100 percent of the amendments that were presented to this dictation. And you, in general, tell us that we consent. Look, it's history, it's the data on the table, and that can't really be questioned. And he also spoke of recovering the qualifications of the professor; too did Mrs. Luca Chao, of En Marea. Look, in recent years the Socialist Party has put his hand in his pocket to the teachers — in a figurative sense. In short, he raised several wage cuts; the People's Party, too. But you know what? By the People's Party they all recovered, and yet those driven by the Zapatero Government, none; that's a difference. And I'm going back to insisting and thinking about the replacement rate: it was a socialist government that put it in motion, who pushed a repositioning rate that made it impossible to convene oppositions and led to an increase of the unofficial professor, of the interior. University funding. I believe that having approved two university funding plans by consensus at difficult times, with all three universities, means that at least something has been done right. That we'd like more resources? I also tell you that of course, but I think something should be acknowledged that it was done well. And as for the scholarships, which you say are the lowest scholarships in the state, that's depending on the registration cost, and the Greek have the lowest registration cost in the state, with which obviously the transfer to finance and pay the tuition costs are also the lowest, because a registration in Galicia costs, as an average, a third, at best, other autonomous communities, like Madrid – – I tell you one of the PP––– or Catalonia, with which obviously the number of scholarships goes in proportion to the cost of registration, and so they're lower, not because there's no support, what there is, but it's just because there's that question. And Mrs de En Marea, Luca Chao, tells us about continuity and tells us, "You are continuityists"—man, of course!—, "do continuous policies, wrong policies." Well, we don't agree there anymore, because, look, let's ask ourselves about basic data to measure the quality and equity of the system. Have you dropped your school failure in recent years? What's the answer? Yes. Did the educational results come up? Do we have better education skills? Yes. Our system is equitable, our education system is more equitable than in recent years? You too. Are there more equal opportunities? Yes. Are there more opportunities for the student? Yes. Is there more employability in FP? Yes. Are we improving in college? You too. It's the wrong policies you say. So from there, obviously, let us be continuous, because, when something works and results, the best is potential, reinforce it, improve it, but keep it, keep it. Because if we don't, we're going on a road that doesn't make much sense. And with regard to the City of Culture, I would invite you to go there, sincerely, to invite you to go there, because you might want to change your perception. You've spoken of the announcement of cars. Great! Why? Because we're promoting a top level architectural fence. Great! That's not questionable, nor is it something that denigrates the City of Culture, on the contrary. But you don't talk here about the Spin that was made last year, for example -- I don't know if it's alone, if it's known to you -- or Womex, or TEDx activities, or the "dark evenings of the Gaiás", of the Scenes of Change, of the exhibitions that take place, of the activities that are done for the children at Christmas, the Magisterium, the carnival... I don't know if you know them, but I sincerely invite you to meet these activities. I'm sure he'll change that perception. And of course, you're also talking about Machism, you've told us about Machism. Since you're from En Marea, maybe it's not the best day to talk. He spoke of equality among people, and spoke of certain issues for which, Mrs. Chao, perhaps today is not the best day. And he also says you don't know anything about innovation. Well, you don't know them, you clearly don't know them. And I'm telling you, because it's not long before the German education system received five national prizes, five national prizes, from different educational innovation centres at different levels. Well, yes, you honestly don't know. Talk about the concert. Man!, I'm going to tell you that, when they ruled the various left-wing forces of the Bipartite, they increased, in four years, only in four years, the units arranged in more than 200 — 213 —. And in eight years of this privatising government, segregationist, etc., 47. In four years, you — when I say "you" I say the parliamentary arch on the left — increase 213, and we in eight years have increased 47. By the way, the vast majority associated with Vocational Training -- in particular the Basic Vocational Training, which provides coverage for those students with more educational needs. And these data are not invented, they're public and they're in the Official Journal of Galicia. And with regard to the ratios -- they all talked about it too -- it seems that in other autonomous communities there is no rural, in Asturias there is no rural, in Cantabria there is no rural, in Castela and León there is no rural, and clearly the data of the ratios in Galicia are very good. I mean, there's one teacher for every 10 students. In Spain we're talking about nearly 13 students by a teacher, and in the European Union we're talking about nearly 15 students by a teacher. With which, ladies and gentlemen, it's data that they haven't really traveled much. And you sincerely see or have a very biased view of what you're talking about. In any case — and it's over — we have a very complex roadmap in front of us, it's a broad-based advisor, as it has been said here, with very broad competences, who require very important work not only from the advisor and his team — a very qualified team and with great motivation and willingness to work — but this could not be done without the complicity of the huge number of people involved in the education system and the enormous number of people involved in the cultural ecosystem. It's a complex job. We want and we're going to do it in a positive way, we want to do it in freedom, and we're sure that our cultural model and our educational model makes one thing possible, which is what we care most about: moving forward in the future of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u38	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications of parliamentary groups. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u39	Well, we only have five minutes, so I'll go a little fast, almost telegraphically. I will not take into account the lack of respect for the little ones. The only thing I'm going to warn you is that if you're getting caught with Mr. Tellado's macarrism. And then I'll leave it to them, then I'll leave it to them. [[Applause]] And we're going somewhere. Regarding some of the issues that were put here on the table, Mr. Fernández Gil has already decided that the absolute majority of the People's Party authorizes him to determine how we manage our own time. Self-organization by the political forces of the parliamentary left arch to determine how we manage our time and in which matters we focus our first intervention, which is the widest, as can be seen. Look, as far as the culture plan is concerned, we weren't going to say anything at first. But since you're out of the question, do you know when we first heard about a culture plan committed by the German Government to boost and dynamize the fabric and the cultural industry, the sector and so on? Look, March 13, 2013 said that councillor, Jesus Vázquez, in his first parliamentary appearance in front of this House. And, further beyond that, Mr. Anxo Lorenzo repeated it and committed it to the year 2013 at the meeting of the commission on 3 April 2013. [[Applause]] Four years later, they repeat the same thing here again. What credibility do we have to give them? And we're still being asked to applaud them with our ears. You meet the commitments you make, you make the commitments you sign here at least -- I don't tell you in the electoral program, I tell you here in front of everyone. I, if you can smile like that, at least, because I would like to thank you. With regard to early school dropout rates, of which all of the people we are here have no doubt that we are extremely happy with it, they have to do with the economic reality — the Comrade of En Marea commented. And, therefore, in times of crisis and less mobility in the labour market, people are betting — something we also support — for continuing their academic training. But those figures that bring us here corresponding to the data published in 2016 analyze exactly those people who were around 16 years old in the analyzed period, i.e. from 2008 to 2014. What educational law governs the Galician community from 2008 to 2014? It wasn't LOMCE, nor was it a law passed by the People's Party. We're glad all the people we're here, but they don't want us to believe that it's a sample, a reflection, of the success of their educational policy, when it hasn't yet begun to evaluate the application of LOMCE itself, which, as you know, came into force after this analyzed period. I'm saying we're glad, but we have to put all the data on the table and not be cheaters, not cheaters, nor want to sell us cats for hare — that in my house they produce connections, right? And to finish, also with regard to this plan of culture and all the measures focused precisely on dynamizing the editorial sector and the book sector, of which we have already had the opportunity to speak for an initiative that presented the Socialist Party's representative in the committee itself... By the way, in those announcements of Mr. Jesús Vázquez—who remember him now?, already goes through Ourense—, in those announcements of Jesus Vázquez, there was also a master plan of the book — 13 March 2013, 13 March 2013—. I bring it here because, well, recently the Council of Culture of Galicia has published precisely the data related to the editorial reality of our country, which evaluated precisely a period between 2008 and 2015. And what they're talking about is an editorial downturn of 24% in recent years, the loss of 1,000 titles. Most of what is currently published are publications related to teaching and literature, that is, the material used in schools. With regard to scientific and technical publications in their own language — an interesting fact — there was only 17 in 2014, something we should be concerned about if one of the issues we want to put on the table is the life and usefulness in all areas of our own language knowledge production. It may also have something to do with the approval of the "decretacy" in the scientific and technological plans. I say "maybe," eh! I don't know, maybe, if we evaluate and bring the data from the evaluation of the application of the decree to this House, we could also do a more thorough analysis. I don't give too much time, and I won't waste more time. I'm the only one asking them is also a little decency, or, I don't know, put on the qualifier they consider appropriate, but at least they comply with what they committed themselves to four years ago and don't expect us to applaud with our ears something we've heard in the previous legislation. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is I've been tempted to ask for twice as much time, because, of course, I see the obligation to reply to Mr. Counselor and his alter ego, Mr. Fernández Gil. Because I've seen few cases of such extreme mimeticism. In fact, this was the same as seeing Avatar in Parliament's version of Galicia. The counsellor sat quietly on his bench and you became counsellor; that is, you answered the opposition groups instead of talking about the counsellor's exposition. [[Applause]] O Allah! O Allah! Clearly, it is part of your parliamentary freedom. Look at one thing, Mr. Fernández Gil — as I see myself under the obligation to also point out some statements, then I'll go with you, if you don't mind — are you sure that the People's Party never screamed behind a sign? Are you sure? Can you guarantee in this Parliament that the People's Party has never manifested itself in the streets in protest of anything, shouting, screaming, or whatever, behind banners? Or is it exclusive to the groups on the left to make such demonstrations — by the way, also legitimate and authorized, both in one case and in another —? And by the way, because I have a very limited time — like everyone else, of course — you say they never left the 2004 Language Standardization Plan. I think that's an astral unfoldment; that's to say, you went out but you didn't, you were in both places. Of course they're gone, man, of course they're gone! They went through the decree of plurilingualism, of course, if we all know it; a plan, in addition, which contained the unanimity of Parliament, of all political forces. It was you who broke that consensus, you guys! Then don't say they never left the 2004 plan. Counselor, you spoke of fierceness on the part of the opposition. Man!, don't get intense, don't get intense, neither was it for so much. I mean, we can consistently defend certain arguments, but you don't get intense either. [[Applause]] Not ferocity, not ferocity. And look at one thing, just for a question of arithmetic, so that it will also serve Mr. Fernández Gil, yourself and for the "n"—with very large "n"—times we're left to hear this in this Parliament. You speak permanently of your absolute majority. They take, if they do the favor, the data of the autonomous elections, the percentage of the population that voted for them, inside the voters, and you'll see that it's 47.53%. And if that happens to a numerical note, those teachers and punctually qualified teachers up to the thousandths, it's 4,753. Insufficient! Insufficient! That's a suspension. [[Applause]] They have 41 Members, of course, we do not deny this, but they do not come here to say that they drew an 8.7 because it is not true. Look, another thing before I say it's better that we all go. Because when you talk about certain legal provisions and say, Man, if we don't agree on it, we'd better go. Well, look, we better go, because it turns out that the replacement rate authorized by Royal Decree Law 20/2011, by Mr. Mariano Rajoy, was 0%. 0%! And it was a royal decree by Mariano Rajoy, not by the PSOE. Fuck! No, you don't. You consult the legislation. [[Applause]] I'm just not making anything up. It's published in the Official State Gazette, caramba! So don't tell me this isn't the case, because it's the case. Look, I will admit, if you want — to do you a favor — that the Socialist Party, ruling in the State, has put its hand — in a figurative sense — in the pocket of public officials. But you know what? That the People's Party didn't pull it out either. Oh, no! Of course not! So it might turn out that that measure was needed at some point. It seems that only during those years of government -- and I'm telling you because I was then in my post as an official -- did you reduce our salary, so you didn't get it out of them either. And look, finally, to finish, don't get catastrophists, don't get intense again. We of course did — Mrs Rodil did, I do it, in order of appearance, and Mrs Chao will surely do it — of course we recognize the successes. How are we not going to be glad that there are things that are going well, that work well? You, like me, know we're moving into an extraordinarily complex world, which is the world of education. And so there are no measures a priori that have no guarantee of success. In fact, there is practically no scope for life in which we can first find out whether or not things will work. They accept criticism as appropriate, not only because it turns out that we are the opposition in Parliament, but because, of course, within what the role of government is to admit the criticisms of those who also legitimately disagree with the measures that we are exposed to. And so -- I insist -- you accept criticism and you think -- or you make calculations, because maybe I made a mistake too -- about 4,753. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u42	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u43	I have five more minutes not only to say what I was missing but to answer what you said, and even to answer the things you said I said and I didn't say; something I've already told you in this House — please take them seriously — that you don't do it again. Don't put things in our mouth that we didn't say, because, according to you, we said I don't know about innovation, which is simply not true. Just to point it out. Of course, I can't help but wonder if they can do that. Let me ask you the question. It's not whether they want to convene opposition or not. The question is, will you call? whether or not? The options of "do not know doesn't answer" or "depends" do not enter into what we put on the table. Our only question was that. If you don't want to answer, well... you also had the option of calling your bosses in Madrid and telling them that, if they don't know, they can give up blackmail. And they can, of course, also make a royal decree with which to convene the opposition, nothing more. And since they are and because they like it so little, they eliminate the replenishment rate, which, as I told them, doesn't matter whether it was invented by the Socialist Party or invented by the People's Party. The case is that it's an outdated invention that constrains basic public services. If, as far as teaching is concerned, his speech deserves no other qualification than that of pure propaganda, because it does not bear the slightest confrontation with reality, if we talk about culture, let me be frank, it is even more embarrassing. It makes it really hard for me to talk about commitment to culture, because — I told you — the data are what they are. You cut 67% of the resources. And, of course, he didn't explain to me how it's possible that crop budget games are devoted to car presentations or to paying for the board's intranet. The question is not whether this is necessary or not. The question is, for you, a car show is a cultural activity? Not for us. But you also have a cultural model in which a car presentation is a cultural activity. Defend him. Nor did he give the slightest sign, in his intervention, of going to change something in these erratic and unjustifiable decisions. One more fact: while you keep burying our money in the City of Culture for car and intranet presentations — nothing more and nothing less than 1 out of 3 euros of all cultural activities — 60% of the artists in this country live under the poverty line. For us this is called "culture." You give him the name you want. I wish it would serve you a reflection. [[Applause]] It erodes culture, damages the universal right of access and, at the same time, destroys an economic sector representing 2% of the German GDP and 3% of employment; figures very close to other sectors much better considered by you, such as fisheries, which generates 2.1% of GDP and 2.9% of employment. Then they might ask themselves, why is this disgust and abuse of culture? They do indeed appear to be political cuts — as my colleague said in the past committee — against a sector which is neither submissive nor pleasant. We really hope that they will change their perspective and begin to consider that the money that goes to culture is not a expense but an investment in the future; that they will recover, at least, the level of investment in 2008, which will undertake an urgent dialogue to revitalize a sector that cannot continue to endure absolute abandonment and centralization in the City of Culture. And another proposal: because they want to respect the culture of this country and the artists so much, they give university degrees to the students, who, as you know, are demanding it. Something like that happens with language policy, I told you before. You can take a breast out of the model of multilingualism, you can even say that we are an example for all. But who knows and based on what? Because the data on the abandonment of the Greek language are there. Children from 5 to 14 years of age who speak German were reduced from 40.3% in 2003 to 25.11% in 2013. I say maybe some responsibility is yours, because it was you who pushed the decree. So if they want to tell us that the multilingual model works, they bring the data, they do the evaluation that they've committed to doing. Counselor, you can tell us that all we do is give an apocalyptic vision. But the truth is that their satisfaction tells us two things: that either they don't know the reality of what we're talking about -- it could be -- or that the goal was exactly what was achieved: to undermine the public by degrading their consideration for doing business with our rights. We went down for the second time. So the economic crisis was the excuse they wanted, the one they needed to implement the neoliberal policies that want to overthrow the welfare state and do business with our rights. Elitism and charity, we know. Impossible to deny it when even his boss, Méndez de Vigo, said there are too many university students in Spain. Even though we're under the European average, and this without explaining which ones are left behind, because we imagine that your children are not. [[Applause]] You've cut, privatized and defiant the public. From En Marea we will continue to defend another model. That's why, yes, we regret it. Thursday we'll be in the streets. Because everyone decides their partners. You decide that your favorite partners are the banks, they're Opus' schools, and they're the companies doing business with the teaching they privatize. We prefer it to be families, students and teachers. That's why we'll be there on Thursday. If he opens the windows of San Caetano, as he hears us saying no, the public won't sell.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u45	Thank you, President. Good day again. Members of the People's Group continue to wait for apologies for the slander spread against all members of the People's Party on social networks calling them women's killers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u46	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u47	The fact is that there are several issues to be pointed out from the previous interventions by the different groups. I think, first of all, I really don't know where to start. I'll almost start... yes, yes, yes, I'll almost start at the beginning, as if these things are done. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Rodil, let's see, first of all, be sure, the truth, that never in my mouth will hear you say that you're macara or act in a macara way, although perhaps at times you can do it. I'm sure it'll never come out of my mouth. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] You spoke of applauding the ears -- it's an expression that repeats repeatedly -- the policies of the People's Party. Of course, no one asks you to applaud with your ears or any other part of your body our policies. Just what we're saying is that, when something works -- and in that I thank Mr. Alvarez's comment, because he did recognize that sometimes when things work, he has to know how to say it, it costs nothing, it's okay -- when things work and if they do well, because they're fine and there's no need to change them. And in that sense we understand that the political position of BNG on many occasions is simply to refuse to assume everything that works well solely for defending a political paradigm that curiously society over and over again manages to say that it doesn't interest you. But, well, that's his way. Of course, continue with it, that we have no problem or will try to avoid marking your political line or changing your discursive line, because of course the line they have is positive for us too. The truth is, Mr. Álvarez, you always tell me many times, when I'm here, that I'm used to talking about election results and that we talk a lot about the absolute majority. Now we've got that 47.56 percent data that you've turned into 4,756. Then allow me to congratulate you from the rostrum on the good results of the Socialist Party. Allow me. [[Applause]] The truth is, they have a result to assume, because, if in our case it's an insufficient one, you don't know if you'd even get to the very weak one you could do then. But, I mean, the truth is, it's funny on these issues. [[Applause]] You went up here, did a gentle intervention, even told us about films, told us about Avatar. I would almost compare it with the speeches of those Greek sophists who were able to twist the truth, or twist reality, depending on the argumental interest, and who were even allowed the luxury of giving those lessons to other thinkers or people who were in the sphere of politics to correct their arguments, who were able to convince others. Look, we are more than just to look at; that is, we like the politics of facts more than the politics of sophisms, the politics of slogans and the politics of empty content. [[Murmurs.]] So we will continue on our way of being and we will forget the way of looking. We'll leave it to you. The truth is that I, Mrs Chao, will not be tired of being surprised at the ability they have since En Marea to create finished concepts in – decision. It's a capacity, of course, deeply appealing: "austerity", "culture"... I think one day these will surprise us with "meracid", which will be when you all eat yourself. But, well, then we'll leave that concept for when they bring him to this House and they want to talk about it. [[Applause]] Look, the truth is, to finish, we understand that, as I said before, we owe ourselves to the people, we owe ourselves to all those we represent, and therefore politics must also be measured on the basis of results and on the basis of facts. I think that essentially you have to measure on the basis of results and facts. So, when something works well, when something works well, and when the line is referendumed, in addition, by consensus with citizenship, because they don't ask us to change what we believe and what they're telling us to do well. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u48	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Close the show. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President, again. Well, Mrs. Rodil, be sure that the culture plan is going to be done. She's absolutely calm. And I also make a reflection that is always customary. If any educational variable improves -- in this case you mentioned early abandonment, which goes down -- the government goes through there; now, if it got worse, it would be the government's radical fault, I don't have the slightest doubt. That's what we're getting used to, and we're grateful you're on the same line. Mr Álvarez, as has been said here, is less bad than the People's Party 41, less bad! But I would also like to make another little reflection: you are surprised that the Government and the political party that supports the Government coincide. He's freaked out. We understand a lot of things. Well, it's a fact that really shows a lot of the situations of some political formations. [[Laughter]] And, of course, you do your own thing too and you say, you have so much, you and you are all the same, by the way. Or do you add your vows and your seats to the Bloc Party or the Tide Party? I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, Mrs. Luca Chao, I too just one question, ask you in Valencia or in the Balearic Islands they're doing with the Oppos. Then they have some responsibility for you, because you, as a political formation -- let's say -- tied to Podemos, or I don't know if you particularly, but if your group, we don't know if they think they live alone in a cloud and are isolated from the rest of the atmosphere. Ask yourself what's done in Valencia and the Balearic Islands, ask, and then we'll talk about what you want: legal security, sure, what you want. But there's one thing you have to rectify, because it's a radical lie. You said that public funds from the Culture Council were paid -- literally -- car presentations. He came to the question of whether public funds should pay for car shows or whether that was a cultural act. She's wrong. The City of Culture leaves its architectural premises — fantastic, by the way — for promotional activities. I've been in a lot. Look, I remember going to one of Coca-Cola's cars, where the Coca-Cola's car network, with a message in English, in German!, presented itself in the City of Culture. There was no money and no euro of public funds was paid at all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why I ask you to rectify this issue, because there is no cultural game of the Galician Union dedicated to the presentation of cars. Look, after your speech, you also have municipalities where they rule. I understand that you can also ask your situation there in the cultural field, and I also tell you to call it "neoliberals" as you called us, because if we are neoliberals in the pejorative sense that you use, go to some municipalities where you have government responsibilities and ask what you're doing there. And to finish, I also wanted to make a general reflection, take a quote from St. Augustine. Tell us St. Augustine that to go anywhere is worth any way. And the truth is, after you listen to them, we don't know which way they're going. I don't think you know where they want to go either, because everything they say, everything they said in this long appearance, if we confront it with reality, falls by their own weight, falls. Because here we hear a lot of statements, a lot of demagogic speeches, a lot of party music -- Mrs Chao's was exciting -- but when we compare it and we see it with reality falls. Galicia has improved the education system in quality and equity in recent years. Big lie. [[An honourable Member made the following statement: No.]] Yes, it has improved, and it has improved with fewer resources. Yes. Why? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because we were able to do things better, better than they were done before. And the advances are equal in both variables: quality and equity. It is essential that they be accompanied. Why? Because the quality without equality is elitism, and this government, this party, is not elitist. But also unquality equity because it's a kind of coffee for everyone, it's an involution, it's bread for today and hungry for tomorrow. They have to walk the two variables together as they're doing. And, of course, gentlemen, there's a lot to do, a lot to do, but we have to know what way we're going to get to the place where we want to go, and this government knows where you want to go, has a trajectory behind us, and the results, even if they refuse here, are on the table: unquestionable! We have a roadmap, we have an electoral program. The president himself in the investment speech made the axes by which he must go through the dynamics and educational and cultural policy, and today, in this audience, we reaffirm the path we want to go. And we all know -- at least we know it -- that this path can't be done alone, it can't be done by just a party or a government. In culture we have to go hand in hand with the different sectors, in that plan of culture that we are going to do; in heritage, like, with the owners of goods, with administrations; in language, with the whole of society; in education, we have to go with the families, we have to go with the professionals, and we know it. And we all know that this path is not easy, but we have to be there with values, and we have to defend a number of values that this party defends: the effort, motivation, freedom, respect, the fulfilment of legality, the commitment to consensus. Because, at the end of all this, the most important thing is the place we want to go, where we want to go, and all this way demands what I just said. And the place where we want to go is a place, a country, where culture and education are key to having a better Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u50	Thank you, Counselor. Opinion of the Social Policy Adviser, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u51	The second appearance is that of the Social Policy Adviser, who has the floor for that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u52	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the well-being of the Greeks and the progress of Galicia is an inescapable commitment that has assumed the President of Galicia and therefore his entire Government. A commitment which, as it could not be otherwise, underpins the strategic lines of this council for the next four years, and which is why I come up on my own request to make participants of those strategic lines of the next four years to all parliamentarians as representatives of all the Greeks and Greeks, with the idea that in social policy, as in many other areas of our land, it is essential that we move forward together, that the ideas we may have different ideas think about everything in person, because the person is our most important sphere of action. That's why we want to continue supporting families, and especially families that have little, because demographic recovery is one of the most important challenges we have in the future. We also have to be close to middle-income families, especially those middle-income families that take on daily family burdens. We must also seek greater social integration of the most disadvantaged people, make more progress in expanding benefits, until no one needs it without it. And we'll also deepen on measures that allow our elders to enjoy a higher quality of life and personal autonomy. Just like people who have different abilities. Today, people and families in this country have more public support tools and instruments than ever before, with higher tax deductions for families with children, with more public squares in children's schools, with more dependent people cared for, with more residence squares and more squares in day-care centres, but not enough. We're not here for what we've done, but we're here for what we've got to do. Our commitment is to continue to work and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of the Greek homes. Today it is true that Galicia stands out among the Spanish communities not only because it is one of the few that meet the economic deficit, but also because the benefit of fulfilling the economic deficit allows us to have better social policies. That is to say, fulfilling the economic deficit, from a social point of view, is important because the greatest resources that enable us to meet that deficit allows us — as you know — to allocate more resources to social policy. I was present a few weeks ago, when the budgets were being processed, the budget of this council for 2017, which reached an amount of EUR 643.5 million. It's the highest figure in Galicia's history for social policy. Because social policies can be talked about in many ways, you can say a lot about social policies, about the intentions that we can all have more or less structured in programs, but what is true and true is that without budgetary support social policies have no bearing on and, above all, they have no future. Especially because the reading of the crisis from the Social Policy Council does not reduce to the fulfilment of the deficit, the reading of the Social Policy Council from the exit of the crisis, above all, is that the crisis has generated greater social inequalities. Therefore, the resources we have available must, precisely, direct them with public policies to reduce these social inequalities that we all saw during the crisis and that in many cases they remained in many families, in many people, after the crisis. As long as there's a German with difficulties, we'll have to be all public administrations and there'll have to be our entire civil society. In this task it is not easy to combine efforts. That's why, of course, I would like to reiterate the offer that has been open in the past legislating of agreements, of agreements in social policy, that are agreements to better care for the worst people that are going through. That's how we did it in the last piece of the past legislation. And I would like to highlight two agreements, I think it's very important: The first, the unique social agenda of Galicia, which marks the major challenges to prevent social inequalities, signed with all the municipalities of Galicia and also signed with the Galician Network against poverty. The measures provided for in this agenda are being developed, and what we need is that this beginning of legislation enables us to move forward precisely in those guidelines we agree on. And also another agreement that I think very important is the framework agreement for the shared management of children's schools and day centres throughout the Galician geography, with the very important idea that they want to move from social services not from Galician union, social services are not from deputies, social services are not from municipalities. The idea that we have to transmit among all, really, is that social services are people's, and especially people who need us most, because that's our priority. Among the strategic lines of this council, the family is highlighted, the children and the children who are born today, because these are the future of our land. In the next four years we will continue to work to promote birth, to support child care and to promote reconciliation, strengthening aid, programmes and services so that Galicia will continue to be the community where families have greater facilities to be parents and mothers. A community that bets on two very important concepts: first, that of conciliation and, second, that of co-responsibility. We believe that these are two fundamental aspects when we're talking about leaving inequalities behind. We long for Galicia to be the best place to be a father and mother, but we aspire above all for Galicia to be the best place to be a child or to be a child. This will not be achieved with improvisation, with occurrences, and much less from day to day, especially considering what was our most recent story. They are targets that are collected in the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. And the fulfilment of this objective obeys the accounts of this council for this year precisely 2017. The economic shares allocated to our family, childhood and demographic programmes exceed 100 million euros, with a huge increase not already compared to 2016 but with the huge increase in 2015. So it's already two years of very important budgetary increase, thinking that families have to play a very important part in the social moment we find ourselves. That is why we want to provide families with the services, resources and measures needed to support precisely the role they are developing in society. A vital role for us to have come here and, above all, a very changing role that we have to be able to project into our future. With a very special mention of two types of family that also require very special attention: on the one hand, numerous families and, on the other hand, single-parent families, which are a reality that we have to be more and more present. Then also to families in situations of extreme need, which are fundamental to avoiding a phenomenon that is, of course, the most important for this council and for any government, that is, child poverty. He said before he also increased reconciliation and co-responsibility measures, to promote new models of family education for the improvement of patterns in the upbringing of children based on positive appearance and to raise awareness of society in general about the importance of family and its impact on the structuring of society and, above all, on our future. That is why at the end of 2015 – as you well know – we launched the birth support programme, the Galician PAN. And we put it in place to ensure the greatest support to families in communities throughout the state. In this legislation we don't stand still and in the first 100 days of government we improve the Welcome Card, for which we approve a multi-year expenditure of 18 million euros, which will allow us to extend it to children born this year 2017. A departure which may also be increased if necessary, which will ensure that all applications meeting the requirements set out in the order will receive this monthly economic approach of EUR 100 per year of EUR 1,200. In addition, we broaden the assumptions that give you the right to receive this card, collecting as a novelty, in addition to the families that were established before, those that have a child or adopt a child and those who are in custody for the adoption of a child under a year, in order to give you the importance that requires precisely the power that we want to make the guard and temporary shelters, very necessary. Because if we're talking about empowering the family, we always have to wake up those children and those children who have no family and who, therefore, have to prove to him that Galicia is their family. We also increase the places where you can use the card, childcare establishments, establishments for the purchase of certain items very related to maternity and very related to parenthood. Today — I can give you the exact data — more than fourteen thousand three hundred homes in Galicia are benefiting from the benefits of the Welcome Card. Secondly, we have increased resources and conciliation services. That's the other important leg of family policies: First of all, with the first thirty children's houses put into operation in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. Target achieved in the first 100 days of legislation, but we have already set the target for this year 2017, which is another thirty children's houses, which are in the corresponding budget split already in the approved budget of this House. This is a clear example of the government's betting that people living in rural municipalities have the same resources as in cities, particularly in our field of acting as advisor, in the field of family and children. In addition, it constitutes support for entrepreneurs in small municipalities that become a new job layoff. Secondly, for the sake of conciliation, we are favoring conciliation by bringing children's schools also to the places where mothers work, to the places where parents work. We have already given the first subsidies to the polygons of the River of Pozo in Narón and to the Tomato in the Poor of the Caramininha, and there is budgetary departure for six new infant schools in industrial polygons and business parks in the budgets that we have approved for this year 2017. In addition, thirdly, we will continue to promote the network of public squares and financed with public funds in children's schools from 0 to 3 years. In these first 100 days of government, we awarded contracts for the construction of two new infant schools: in Mos, with an economic amount of EUR 683,000, and in the Road, with an economic amount of EUR 677,000. In these first 100 days of government, we have completed the work of comprehensive reform of the Grove Children's School, with an economic contribution of EUR 514,000. And we've got the construction of more children's schools. We're starting to build a very important childhood school in Ourense and we're finalizing the placements of two new ones, spending them with the municipalities, in the municipalities of Lugo and Vigo. These actions and those that will be developed in the coming years in this area respond to an ambitious goal of government: we aspire to the 313 municipalities in Galicia with a conciliation resource on the horizon of 2020, and also that we arrive that year with a 40% coverage ratio of children's schools. We are currently 37%, and the recommended coverage ratio for the European Union is 33%. Fourthly, fourthly, a fourth measure of conciliation: the Bono Care, from which we hope that it will benefit as many as three thousand families. Fifth, the Council Bond. With direct help to those families who are on the waiting list in schools and who receive the equivalent economic amount to get no waiting list either this year 2017. Sixthly, extend the dependent child allowance to family units with incomes that do not exceed 22,000 euros, and which we hope will reach 3,000 families this year. Our conviction is that supporting families and creating the most favourable social environment for their development is the best way to contribute to the well-being of this pillar of society. The revitalization of the population is another central issue not only in Galicia but also in Spain as a whole and in many regions of the European Union. This is a task that must involve all the public representatives we are in this House. We are currently the third community with the lowest fertility rate in the state and also the second community with the highest aging rate. Facing the demographic problem is one of the central axes of this board and the whole government, working in three very important areas: First of all, in the autonomic field. I've already told you about the birth support program. And also in the national framework. Here we had significant progress following the Conference of Autonomous Presidents held in January, which resulted from the initiative of President Feijóo: the creation of a specific commissioner for the demographic challenge. The work of Galicia served greatly with the communities of Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla y León, Extremadura, Asturias, Cantabria, La Rioja and Aragon. And our commitment is to continue working with these autonomous communities, where their political colour is different, to be able to make our agreements also linked to other public administrations. And then, thirdly, in the European area, where we have to be working on the new financing measures from 2020, so that those special characteristics that Galicia has — aging and dispersion of the population — become also an opportunity. In an opportunity that allows us to obtain more funds for these particularities, because it's not the same as providing services with more population and it's not the same as providing more services with many population nuclei like we have in Galicia. It must be remembered — as I said before — that the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 has among its fundamental objectives the need for us as administration to contribute to this demographic revitalization. Creating a social environment that favors this goal from multiple perspectives is a work that we're going to put forward in these four years. Because the Government's wish is that in this legislation a great political and social pact emerges in favour of a law of demographic impulse. Just doing what other regions, other European states, did when they realized that this was a strategic issue. That is why we amend the regulations governing the Demographic Observatory, with the inclusion of the Galego Labour Relations Council, the Galego Statistical Institute, the Government Delegation, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the three Greek universities, the trade union organizations, the Galician Economic and Social Council, scientific experts in the field of demographics and I hope and wish that parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe in the families, any kind of family, as one of the pillars that will serve our society. Protecting them and ensuring the free and integral development of them is an obligation of the public authorities. In this legislation, we must move forward, as I said before, in the recognition of single-parent families and families as families of special consideration. These families already enjoy at the autonomous level of a whole series of benefits that can be accessed in a cross-sectional manner in the various departments of the Union, such as the social area, tax deductions, preference in the adjudication of squares in children's schools, assessment of situations of social exclusion or risk of social exclusion to access Galician social income. We believe that progress needs to be made in drawing up and approving a specific support programme for these two types of families that integrate and make visible the actions and benefits that exist from the various departments and will be programmed for these families. The importance of these measures and proposals is justified in a data that I am going to give them below: in 2008, some more than eighty-eight thousand single-parent families were accounted for in Galicia; we are now over one hundred and three thousand single-parent families. And another fact also in numerous families: at this moment we have issued numerous family titles amounting to 21,600. They will therefore be perfectly aware that any family policy has to have a special consideration for this new reality, for the reality of single-parent and mono-manent families, and of course also for numerous families, because there is no doubt that they contribute more to the objective of the demographic revitalization of Galicia. A few small words — as I said before — to talk about childhood, because the board is in charge of more than two thousand minors right now. Thinking of the children who most need our attention and support, we hope to improve the technical and economic support of the family home, which is evidenced by the budgetary increase collected in the accounts of this year 2017, to reach an amount of EUR 2.4 million. And in this line we also increased the game for the improvement and maintenance of juvenile centers, to the point of 28.4 million euros, which will make – – we are convinced – an improvement in quality of service, in which we have much to move forward and in which we are making decisive progress. We must continue to preserve the rights of the children. That is why we will continue to develop a policy of promoting good treatment for children and adolescents, with mediation programmes, aimed at families with children with disruptive behaviours, to facilitate the school success of protected minors, to prevent and intervene in cases of philoparent violence, to strengthen the social and labour integration of juveniles who comply with judicial measures, to promote positive parenthood, with programmes to protect, advise and coordinate actions in the care of child abuse. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, these are the strategic lines on family, childhood and demographics that will mark social policies for the next four years in Galicia. The goal they pursue is to ensure the well-being of families, children and children, as well as to contribute to the revitalization of the Welsh population. Fighting poverty, social exclusion and inequality is also one of the priorities of this government. To that end, we must continue to launch services, measures and programmes that serve, first of all, the lowest incomes, thus giving continuity to work which, by the hands of the municipalities and social entities, has already begun as the main tool of Galicia's Single Social Agenda. The work of the next four years of our goal responds to literality, but also to the objective of article 25 of the Declaration of Human Rights: everyone has to have a proper standard of living to assure him, as well as his family, health and well-being, and in particular food, clothing, housing, medical care and necessary social services, as well as unemployment insurance, illness, disability, widowhood, old age and other cases of loss of his means of subsistence by circumstances independent of his will. So, the Galician Union and the rest of our administrations, our councils, have put in place a strategy that this year reaches the 107 million euros of budget of our area of inclusion, which is 20 million more than last year's exercise and 37 million more than two years ago, and together with greater economic availability, to deal with what it said: that recovery allows us to have more resources to deepen, precisely, in combating inequality. Together is going to accentuate that commitment in this legislation. And we will do so with the following points of action: firstly, continue with the impetus and updating of the measures contained in the Single Social Agenda and the Social Strategy for the inclusion of Galicia; secondly, by developing the Galician Social Inclusion Act; thirdly, by strengthening the Community social services; fourthly, by expanding the programmes for support families at risk of rejection; and, fifthly, by enhancing the role of the socio-working inclusion teams that we have deployed through our territory. The unique social agenda of Galicia constitutes the general framework for coordination and cooperation between the public servants of the Greek social services system, those of the Galician Union and those of the social entities, precisely to be able to channel all our needs and channel all our efforts. The Agenda includes measures, as you know, from different areas: income support, approaches to energy and child poverty, attention to residential inclusion, promotion of social inclusion programs and projects, dependency care, as well as funding programs and social inclusion projects that already develop local corporations, municipalities, and social initiative entities. Currently, work is being done on including new lines of action in the Agenda's coordination framework. It is about encouraging, with two other councils (with the Economic, Employment and Industry and the Rural Environment Council), measures and protocols that allow access to employment for people currently receiving Galician social income or who are at risk of social exclusion. The economic effort of the Galician Union with its inclusion is beyond doubt. This year the budgets of Galicia's social income grow again, up to 57.5 million euros. In just two years, in the years 2016 and 2017, it increased by 10 million euros the economic contribution to confront this right, this right of many people who do not have any kind of income. As I said, we have before us the normative development of the Act of inclusion, access to minimum income in a situation of severe poverty and exclusion, the right to professional and financial support and assistance to acquire new capacities and qualifications and the right — together with individual responsibility — not to remain in a situation of chronic dependence on public benefits, which is so much as to try to avoid with the development of the law the chronification of poverty, that once you come to perceive this benefit there is no kind of future. To fully achieve the objectives for those who have approved this law, it is therefore necessary to develop it. The new integration arrangements that we will include in this decree are like the transition to employment. It has a lot to do with what I told them earlier, by strengthening community social services. First, it is necessary to indicate that Law 13/2008 of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia organizes social services as a public service in which they participate in a coherent, coordinated manner, autonomous and local administrations. The councils are also for the Social Policy Council the gateway to the Greek Social Services System, the first level of attention and are especially characterized by proximity to users. To ensure the effectiveness of the measures that are being implemented from the Autonomic Administration and to be able to provide more and more quality social care, we strengthened the technical staff of the social services of the municipalities and local corporations of Galicia, because it was an objective that we achieved in the Agenda. In 2016 there was an increase in the amount allocated by the Council to the municipalities for the financing of staff costs for Community social services by 22%, with more than 10 million euros; this is the biggest increase that had been made in many years. It includes an increase in funding for the existing staff, i.e. by increasing the modules by 12%, and increasing new workers in the social services of local corporations: 63 new professionals, in 35 municipalities in the four provinces. I'm going to tell you about some of them who had a very special need to increase their staff: Artex, Boiro, Ribeira, Vigo, La Coruña and Narón. The intention of this council is to continue to intensify support for the municipalities and to expand the contributions we have seen them make. Another basic axis of intervention focuses on families at risk of death, where we take some measures to the Social Policy Council and others, as you well know, the Housing and Infrastructure Council. The Reconduce program is the most important of the Social Policy Council. It facilitates persons and families at risk or in situations of death or death of their habitual housing services, psychological support, work orientation and, when specific requirements are met, information about free justice services as well as support in the search for an alternative housing. It also offers legal-economic advice, if any, and brokering functions with financial entities. Since its inception in October 2013, it has helped to avoid 160 releases into our community. The program is currently fully developed from the central office in Santiago de Compostela. I want to announce our intention to extend the programme offices to six new offices, in the six major cities of Galicia that were missing for this new service. They were also talking about enhancing the role of socio-laboral inclusion teams. We have a network, a network consisting of a total of 18 intervention teams, a team located in module 1 of the Teixeiro penitentiary centre and a coordinating team. These teams work a total of sixty people with training in social disciplines. The objective of the team's work is the same as I told them before: to avoid the chronication of poverty, to achieve an active and real social inclusion, understood as economic and social autonomy of people and families, which requires, as you can imagine, a social and labor integration process and itinerary by our professionals. The maintenance of the network of demarcational teams working under the sole supervision of this board through the Consortium, together with the implanted in urban areas dependent on local corporations, will also ensure that we do not have large scientific plans, but that we are able to be in the territory, to take advantage of the potentialities of the territory for labour insertions, as well as working together with local administrations, provincial administrations and other councils of the Galician Union on this goal. I would like to highlight, within the work of the inclusion teams, the Nelson Mandela initiative, a programme of preparation for freedom that takes place at the Teixeiro penal centre and in what currently participates around seventy interns in Module 1. Through this project, school activities are carried out by parents, computer literacy, discussion club, basic literacy of students, the Vis-à-vis magazine workshop, occupational workers, the course of personal competences, the health education workshop, the reading club and the active job search workshop, which involves a very advanced and highly recognized performance from the point of view of inclusion in Galicia. I also want to talk to you about another objective of legislation: the elaboration and implementation of an integral care plan for homeless people. The homeless are in a situation of severe vulnerability. The lack or precariousness of housing means the accumulation of associated problems and risks, which shift from home to other areas in the lives of people and their families. Galicia's Social Inclusion Strategy already has measures to prevent or reduce the damage it causes. Among these measures, it highlights support for the care and support device of homeless people, which establishes lines of derivation and integration into the society of homeless people through the most important: coordinated work between different administrations and the different NGOs working in this field. It is really about analysing the current situation and working, in collaboration with the councils and social initiative entities, so that among all of us we can avoid the absence of a roof in Galicia. I don't want to finish this section of my speech without highlighting other actions on inclusion. We are still one of the four autonomous communities in Spain that pays for the complement of the NCPs, non-contributory pensions, of which 40,000 Greeks and Greeks benefit. We will continue to consolidate the social inclusion sections of the municipalities, but also the NGO shares, of the entities that work in many cases on the street, detecting many needs that we sometimes have neither the local government nor the self-government. I am referring to the budget increases planned for the Anti-Hungary Committees, for Father Rubinos, for Southern Echoes, for Caritas, to Resolve, for the Gypsy Secretariat Foundation, for the Home Project, for the Galician Food Bank Federation and for the Galician Red Cross. In addition to these nominal agreements, the Social Policy Council launched last year, and we will continue this year, an agreement with the German Network against Poverty (EAPN) and another with Emmaus, for the second phase of the INCLUE project, of innovation for social inclusion. I would also like to point out that since Galician Union we have continued to work for the reception of refugees through the Red Cross fundamentally, facilitating all the needs that we have been asked to demonstrate that Galicia is a welcoming society. We will continue with support for shelters, dining rooms, reception centres and inclusion centres, and we want to develop another of the measures provided for in the Act of Inclusion: the seal of inclusive company, also implementing in this legislation the Galician Social Observatory. Just remember what our philosophy, our second philosophy, is in terms of inclusion: the four Cs. The causes that cause inequality, the commitment of all sectors involved, the budgetary commitment and, finally, the fourth C is the C of coordination. They have the entire provision of the Social Policy Council so that, in these four years, we have made a great deal more progress in the C of coordination with all the entities we are already talking to, precisely to deal with this new beginning of legislation, and also with the councils and the deputies of Galicia. Another field of work at the Social Policy Council is the largest. We owe everything to our elders. Social awareness about healthy lifestyle habits, increased life expectancy and improved quality of life is not a problem, I'm an opportunity. We have to deal with it from the Active Ageing Strategy since Horizon 2020. In terms of dependency attention, we can say that Galicia is much better today than a few years ago. We can say this because it's a target data, but we can also say the second objective data: that we have a lot left to do and that we have all the disposition in this legislation to make very important progress in caring for dependence, which is just as much as returning to our seniors and people with different abilities all that brings day by day in our society. I'm going to give them the target data, though they know I don't like to give data much. We started the year, for the first time, above the average of the autonomous communities of the state in relation to dependence, 72%, when the average of the state is 70%. Today Galicia serves 49,000 dependents, who receive services and attention. A very important challenge, the financing challenge. Here too we have news, very important news that I want to share with this House. Galicia is one of seven autonomous communities that are part of the Commission for the analysis of the dependency system that put in place by the Central Government, according to the agreement adopted at the last summit of autonomous presidents. We have already attended the first constitutive meeting on February 23, in which Galicia defended, with the rest of autonomous communities -- because here there is a very important coincidence among all autonomous communities -- that it is necessary to make a very important diagnosis in this area and that there we are playing to really consolidate not the dependency system, but the rights of our seniors and the rights of people who have some kind of disability. [[Applause]] We're not going to look elsewhere, we haven't done it in the past legislation. We're going to keep working because we have more resources, and having more resources is what enabled us to overcome the average attention of the different autonomous communities. But there's also a reality that we have to talk about and that we've already exposed to the state. Greek resources finance 72% of the system, and state resources 28% of the system. So what we have is to guarantee a fairer system, and they don't have the slightest doubt that Galicia will demand that fairer distribution. And they don't even have the slightest doubt that it will be very important for us to have general state budgets this year 2017. We, in the autonomic field, in the first 100 days we closed the electoral proposal of President Feijóo that we will build seven new residences of seniors. We have already approved the program's master plan As at home to meet 900 dependent people, with very important data, that this plan will generate more than 500 new jobs. The goal of Como at home is to ensure the assistance of older people around the large metropolitan areas, so there are 7 new residences: 5 of 120 squares in Ferrol, Santiago, Pontevedra, Ourense and Lugo; and 2 of 150 parks, in Vigo and Coruña. As a novelty, all the centers will have differentiated jeriatric and psychogeriatric units; they will have specific areas to accommodate, care and work with residents who also suffer severe cognitive impairments or disorders, because what we're showing is the practice is that they increasingly enter the homes of older people and therefore require more and more specialized services, so we develop this new plan. We have selected the possibilities of location in these seven cities. In Coruña, in the plot near Eiris Park; in Ferrol, in Boial; in Santiago, in the district of Fontiñas; in Lugo we have the doubling between the chances of recovery of the hospital of Calde and a plot in Montirón 1; in Ourense, in the area of the Lagoas; in Pontevedra, in the old provincial hospital; and in the municipality of Vigo, in the facilities underutilized at this time of ETEA. The construction and entry into service of these equipment will allow a fundamental government objective, which is to reduce the waiting lists that exist in the field of larger squares. We've registered the waiting list in seven cities and metropolitan areas in 1,212 requests. To create these 900 squares, with the historical rotations of these residences, we will be guaranteed to cover about 95% of the existing demand. We've done more in these hundred first days. We finished the modernization and rehabilitation of the residence of the third age of Caranza, in Ferrol. We set up 4 new centers for attention to older people: the Roundella Day Center, the Poor Day Center, Curtis Day Center and the Maceda Day Center. Another key to social action is to respond to specialized assistance, and also in the first 100 days we launched specialized care units to the alzeimer in Santiago de Compostela, The Road, Marín, Tui, Ourense and The Nogals. In the coming weeks, just as we're already working with social entities, we're going to work with the municipalities and with the deputies to, among all, improve attention to our elders. We're giving the greatest impetus in history to the home aid service. We said before that we have two characteristics in Galicia that are very important: we have a higher percentage of population than the average state, and on the other hand, we have a lot of population nuclei. Well, systems like these allow us to act throughout our territory, act in big cities, but also in small villages in Galicia. That's why we are planning, for this year 2017, 1,700 new highs in this service, so that we have a total of 18,000 beneficiaries with an economic amount of EUR 60 million, when last year it was EUR 50 million, and also making it more coordinated with the municipalities. We also need to develop new services to care for older people: to increase universal accessibility, to develop teleassistion and support based on technology that fosters autonomous life in our own homes, because there are many people who want to follow in their homes, and today there are technological advances. We're waiting for this legislation to make very important progress that we're going to coordinate with the municipalities and the deputies, and we're also waiting for these technological advances to take a stamp: the seal of the Galician company. Sixthly, not only is all that has to do with our older ones is technological support, so we have to guarantee support and emotional support, another of the challenges that we are going to face together. And another thing that we're going to consider with the municipalities and deputies is the only electronic social history. It can't be that our files, when we're talking about people who need it a lot, are records where the role often ends up eating the work of our social services professionals. We've already joined 50 municipalities, and now we have 500,000 digital social stories. We've been betting on one thing, which is not creating a new card. We already have a card, a card that we know very well in Galicia, which is the health card, which we want to take advantage of all the advantages of the health card so that the entire social story is also on the health card. Indeed, this allows us not only to have so much paper, because sometimes a recognition of disability, a recognition of dependence, it takes months since the medical certificate is issued until the social worker receives it, so this is really, if you allow me, very innovative, and I think we can put a lot of expectations in this. Another area with special consideration in this council is people with different abilities. We will invest in this exercise about 100 million euros — much more than in the previous exercise, and much more than the previous exercise — to maintain our network of centres, to continue with the assistance to entities and municipalities, to create new transport squares and consolidate the agreements we have. Conventions with the Galician Association of Temperá Care, with the Association of Galician San Francisco, and the Nominative Agreements with the federations that attend the Cermi, with the Federations of Medular Injuries and Great Physical Disabled Persons, with Galician Autism, with Brain Parálysis, with Down Galicia, with the Federation of Dead Persons, with the Confederation of Galician Persons with Disabilities, with people with intellectual disabilities, with families of alzehimer, with the Galician Federation of Brain Damage and with the Galician Federation of Rare and Chronic Diseases. These are really the entities that are fighting, the entities that have been able to effect a lot of people's rights. I'll end up with the last area of attention of our council, the area of youth, which we'll face from the European Union Strategy for Youth 2010-2018. We try to create more opportunities, and with greater equality, for boys and girls in education or the labour market and also encourage young people to participate actively in society. Two lines of action: specific youth initiatives aimed at promoting non-formal learning, participation and volunteering, youth work, mobility and information; and cross-sectoral integration initiatives, which ensure that youth problems are taken into account when formulating, implementing and evaluating policies and actions in other areas as well as in the Galician Union. In this context, the general lines of action of the Social Policy Council in the field of youth are: firstly, strengthening the employability of young people and the acquisition of skills in what is involved with the competences of the Social Policy Council; secondly, encouraging participation; thirdly, developing a new strategy on youth, a strategy that must be involved and which must be from the different councils of the Council of Galicia, the different public administrations; fourthly, updating the rules of services and policies directed at young people and girls; and fifthly, betting on volunteers. As far as empowering programmes that reinforce employability is concerned, I want to highlight the Leadership project, the Welsh Young talent retention plan and the Galeuropa Youth transnational mobility program, which are unremunerated training practices in companies in European countries, which is giving great results; the Jupiter initiative, which are projects designed and managed by young people themselves; the Designing your future, which are stays, guided visits to different business sectors for the moment before choosing what your expectations will be as a professional exit. As for promoting youth social participation — which is also a very important goal — we want to continue to increase the programme of youth correspondents, increasing it by 10% each year of this next legislation. We want this legislation to put in place the Gaga Youth Advisory Council. We want to create the figure of young ambassadors in the world. Thirdly, we will design and develop a new strategic planning, so to announce the development in this legislation of the 2017-2020 Strategic Youth Plan, a strategic plan that should foster the design of youth policies. And he would also tell them to encourage volunteering and participation. It's essential through these new programs. Accompanying programmes to older people, voluntary social. We used to say first how important the greatest are in our society. We want to contribute to intergenerational exchange experiences. Because not only are we here so that our biggest ones could contribute to Galicia's development, we're here also because of their experience, we're here because of their values. And that's something we want to integrate a lot more into our youth with our older ones. Secondly, also a new environmental volunteering program, because if any wealth has Galicia, from which we feel very proud, it's our magnificent surroundings. As for the dynamization actions that we're going to take forward in this legislation, I want to talk to you about two in the field of volunteering, which is the volunteering card and the volunteering map, along with the Galego Voluntary Action Observatory. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finishing this first intervention as I started it. Galicia's well-being and progress is what will guide social policies to this legislation. On this point, we have been on our way, and now it's about consolidating the fact that we are deploying new measures and projects. Galicia has to be the best place to be born and we want to remain. Galicia now has more tools to support people with more difficulties. For the first time Galicia begins the year — as I told you — with a better ratio of attention to dependence. And Galicia already has the master plan to build seven new public residences in the seven major cities of Galicia. Today we have a more social Galicia than we were yesterday, but what we expect is that, with everyone's effort, in this legislation, in 2020, we have a much more social Galicia. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u53	Thank you very much, Counselor. The turn of parliamentary groups begins. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u54	Good day to all and all. It's only too bad that you've facilitated our work, Mr. King Varela, that you just made a summary of headlines for the press of your long exhibition, because otherwise it would be difficult to come to a conclusion. I appreciate this summary in headlines. I'm going to start by telling you that, of course, you've come here today and you've given us a whole description of the lines of action for your Counsellor as if they had just arrived. And, of course, the first question is that we're talking about two legislations later, eight years later, Mr. King Varela. So, of course, you — it's just that I started counting and then I couldn't keep going — said, "Let's go...", "Let's go...", "Let's go..." Don't you think too many "go" to two legislates after eight years? Does it not seem to you that there are still too many pending subjects you said here today that you were going to put in motion, or that you were going to implement, or that you were going to do, after two legislations, from the turn of the People's Party to Galician Union? Of course, the BNG seems to us to be. And, of course, first of all, eight years later, two legislatures later, the least is to balance, because you didn't present virtually anything new here. He gave a description of things that will continue. He's going to keep asking certain questions, he hasn't brought anything new, beyond these ambassadors, which I suppose they're going to give them a flag, a pin, and they're going to send them around to say, "I'm Greek around here," and then he'll explain to us what this is going to be from the ambassadors. But beyond that, he didn't practically make any new plans. Well, yes, he said they've already announced that they're going to make seven residences for older people — seven. And I'd like to know if this Plan As in the House is going to follow the same path as, for example, that of the health centers, which in 2009 came in Feijó and announced that the plan was already in progress, at that time it was sixty and I don't know how many health centers, followed them announcing a month later, two months later, a year later, a legislation after, two laws after... and there's not a third of those promised at that time. With which I want to start asking you, since you come here -- I hope you answer some of the questions that we are asking you -- this Plan How at Home, when?, with what financing system?, where?, for what date? Because look, you did here a description of where you've been thinking, didn't you? So, for example, in Pontevedra the idea is that it will be at the current Provincial Hospital and there it is that they haven't even started with the first stone of the single plan of the great Montecelo. So if it isn't even the first stone and it has to be made the great Montecelo so that then the Provincial Hospital will be empty to go to Montecelo, this idea, this in particular, for when, Counsellor? Another question is what budget? Because he said the other day Feijóo—and you repeated it today—we're going to put 48 million euros; so, because in the budgets this year they're not. So, is that an idea?; then, what stage are we in?, no ad?, on the ad?, on the first ad?, on the ad of the first year, of the year zero? We'd like, of course, to have a little realization and not to be told an idea, because for now what's announcing us is an idea. But, indeed, he left two legislates. You can't come here today and almost pretend to put the counter to zero; we start here, we get here and we're going to start doing social policy. Because, two legislations later, what is the result of the social policies of the People's Party in Galicia's Union in eight years? I say this because you will have to evaluate the outcome of those policies that are being implemented in those eight years, you will have to assess what the plans and the "go-go-go" were, which you said today here will continue with more budget, but you will have to evaluate them. And then the questions are, is it better or worse, the Galician society with those eight years of social policy? What is the poverty situation in Galicia, Mr. King Varela? What is the situation of dependent people? What is the situation of people with disabilities? What is the demographic situation in Galicia? What is the situation of youth? What is the situation of the conciliation in Galicia? I'll give you some data. Look, I'm going to give you first data from the Galician Network against Poverty, which you mentioned here. And what do you say about two legislations, after eight years of social policies of the People's Party? For it says that in Galicia there are 702 people, 25.7 percent of the population, who lived in 2015 at risk of poverty or exclusion, 106 people more in 2015 than in 2014, and who is worse. I'm talking about texts from the Galician Network against Poverty. That people in severe poverty are already at 4.8%, when it was 3.5% a year ago, that is 38,000 more people since 2014 to 2015; that having jobs no longer ensures leaving poor; that new jobs that are created are precarious, of low quality; that labour poverty is an increasing phenomenon, it is not decreasing with the policies that have started, it is increasing. It says that poverty and exclusion are taught by 37.8% of youth; it says that for the first time the largest in Galicia with lower pensions. What does the Foesa Report say? That the rate of yellow homes with all unemployed people in 2009 was 4.2 % and 13.7% in 2016. What does the Foesa Report say? That the long-term unemployed in 2009 were 13.7% and are now 42.1%. And that these long-term unemployed people who have been unemployed for more than two years, who are no longer entitled to any unemployment benefit, are the ones who are entering the lists of people who ask for Risga, Mr. Rey Varela. That's why you, who come here today and take your chest off saying that we've increased to 56 with no idea how many millions Risga isn't to be proud. It's just because the levels of poverty in Galicia are galloping and the rights that have been taken from thousands of people by their labor reforms. And the withdrawal of social rights leads today to the profile of people who ask for risk being people who up until a few years ago had a job and had a life plan and who don't have it today. That's the real reality. What does the ESC report say, Mr. King Varela? I'm telling you a lot of reports, so don't tell me I'm coming with one that's favorable to my thesis, I'm telling you a lot of reports. What does the ESC report say? The ESC's report speaks of the great concern about the increase in inequalities. It says that the increase in levels of poverty and social inequality resulting from reduced income, levels and duration of unemployment are alarming; it says that it is worrying that 1 in 4 people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion; it says that it increases GDP in Galicia, but wages continue to lose weight. What does that mean? That that escape from the crisis from which you are so presumptuous means that it is a tremendously unequal exit, Counselor. It's an exit where wealth accumulates more and more in fewer hands, where the few at the top have more and more resources to account for most of the below. What's the data? That, for example, in the Spanish state 100 people, 100 fortunes, accumulate 19% of GDP, when the 8 million pensioners in the Spanish state represent only 12% of GDP. That's the data of the situation we're in. What do you say? Because the migration balance is negative, that there is a demographic disaster, that there is a very bad job quality, that 30% of contracts do not exceed the week. And he's talking about monomantal families, Mr. King Varela, because they have to be called monomantal families. Why? Because in 80% of those families with only one adult, there's a woman at the front. And it means that poverty in Galicia looks like a woman and a child, actually, because there is poverty, and poverty is like a woman. No, of course, it says that 52% of the Greek homes made up of an adult, i.e. monomantial, are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, which must be a preferential element. What does the IGC labour market report say? Because 2,011 people are still unemployed, 43% are over two years old and out of those benefits that I told them before, that they are part of all those thousands of people who ask for Risk and are on the waiting list; that 30.7% of people who have jobs in Galicia do not reach the minimum inter-professional wage; that is, data, of course, demolifiers. And the cruelty of this data, Counsellor, points out the need to articulate a public welfare system, makes it clear that this should be the priority. But the reality is, the People's Party didn't have this as a priority. The reality is that the People's Party did not articulate a public system, neither of children's schools, nor of day centers, nor of senior residences, and the reality is that, eight years later, two legislations later, in Galicia, there are no more public resources to meet the needs of the population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u56	...because the PP is running an ideological project, an ideological project, Mr. King Varela: changing public services for charity and privatization. That is the reality of the policies of the People's Party. Because it's not a resource problem, it's a priority problem, it's a political project problem of the People's Party; a political project where it removes rights to the population, where it makes legislation to lower rights and withdraw benefits and then implements charitable measures, in its vast majority in the hands of private companies, because, with the return of the People's Party to Galicia's Union, so clearly it was for privatizing services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u58	...—Filled, Mr President—basic, turning them into business for businesses, and to those who give them help—good conciliation, good care in rural areas, children's homes. It's nothing but a public service bet and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u59	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. It's over, it's not in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u60	...social in Galicia and bet on charity and handing them over to private companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u61	Thank you very much. You have the floor now of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u62	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, it's almost late, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. The fact is that the Socialist Group is always surprised to hear them say that, as the crisis has now passed — which is quite questionable but we are going to do so — we must invest, we can now invest in social policy. The Socialist Group, the Socialist Group in general, we think that we must not allow inequalities to be consolidated, and you have left, with the excuse of the crisis and the economic problems, to consolidate extreme social inequalities in this country. That's the reality. Well, time is very limited, and then I think you spoke about an hour, so I'll try to go to the subjects that we consider most relevant. Dependency law. It takes ten years of a law from which socialists feel particularly proud — and I always say it, and I will continue to repeat it throughout the legislation — a law that has opened a new frontier, yet to conquer, a law that consolidates, which consolidates or aims to consolidate social cohesion. You came here in 2016 to say that it would increase the attention to dependency in 10,000 people — that is what appears in the logbooks. We didn't get our heads out, and we told him that then. The unit observatory data says that, in the last year, more than 7,000 have been increased. I'm not going to explain it, because I'm convinced you know that there are people who renounce this right because they can't deal with the coops. Your decisions end up with consequences in people's lives, that's reality, and more in your department, and even more when it comes to dependency. Thus, 34.9 million euros is what Galicia has ceased to perceive since the entry into force of Royal Decree 20/2012, that real decree of dependency cuts. With that amount, Counselor, you could come here today to assume that you not only met the 10,000 ratio, but would have increased the management by 1,800 more, helping these people. I'd also have created 1,500 jobs. And please don't tell us now that the budget on dependency depends on whether or not budgets are approved at the state level, don't tell us that, and don't tell us that to receive what we have to do on the basis of the law it is necessary to approve those budgets. That's just like the subject of opposition: political blackmail, counsellor; political blackmail. Because last year there were budgets and they didn't ask for them, they came here to say that they were asking for it and coming to Madrid with their tail between their legs and they weren't able to hit the table to demand what we deserved. [[Applause]] Look, the People's Party's commitment to the unit is even written. All political groups — all — of the Congress of Deputies, with the exception of the People's Party and the PNV, signed a commitment to return dependence to the targets for which it was created, to end the waiting lists in two years, and I repeat: the only two parties that did not sign it were the People's Party and the PNV. There's still a waiting list of more than 26% and a per capita expenditure below the state average, in more than 400 euros. If it is necessary for this community to function as a clock, it is even more so in the matter of poverty. With a social X-ray that's worse than the state, in Galicia, households where no income is received this last year at 13.1%; in Spain, 12.6% fell. And what's your medicine? According to the data presented in the 2015 Minimum Income Report, the increase in the number of people who received Risk in Galicia is 6 points below the state average; that is, in the face of a worse situation, worse averages; 5 out of every 1,000 people get a Risk in Galicia, the state average is 7. This government continues at the same time to consolidate poverty and to chronicle it with its aid, Counselor, with a minimum aid of EUR 399 per month, far away, for example — I will not refer to it as an autonomous community governed by the Socialist Party, but as one governed by you — from Castela and León: EUR 426 per month. This is partly leading to a rise in severe poverty in Galicia, and an increase of 4.8% this last year, people with incomes of less than 330 euros a month. And it comes here today to repeat again that it will develop the Act of Inclusion, three years later, an inclusion law by which, if you did the duties, there would be thousands of people who would not have problems during these years, and I mean people who had to give up jobs, because, of course, I am convinced, Counsellor, that you think a person who works for hours and who earns 120 euros a month cannot live with that salary, and because he cannot live with that salary, he would need an income of social inclusion. Well, his desire, his lack of interest — or I don't know how to call him — has caused the delay to have — I want to tell him — consequences on people's lives, of people who have not been able to live with other people during these years, in relation to Risga — no more than two Risks could be perceived by a home, now there is a ruling by the Judge of Continent No. 1 of Vigo. And I would like to ask you, Counsellor, will you, as long as this rule of development of the law does not come into force, some kind of internal order to allow such aid to reach people living in the same home right now? To get out of poverty, Counselor, they don't help some of the measures taken by your Government, an electric ticket with a 33% reduction — by the way, they preferred to divert these funds into the City of Culture, which you have already told us here before by the Councillor of Culture that was a reference, and very important—. Don't take advantage of non-contributory pension benefits, because they dropped more than 2 million euros in the budget project you presented, that's in a country where only one in four pensioners exceeds 1,000 euros and where two in three women pensioners don't reach the minimum wage. Disability. Budget 40% lower than in 2009, 40%; a lowest, lowest, lowest, counsellor, from all Spain, almost 10 points below the national average — and these are not my data, are data from the INE, which you can verify — and also the one that has longer stops. What are you going to do to reverse this situation? And for when is that accessibility plan? Look, we don't think there's any chance of young people coming here bragging about the Galeuropa programme, and we've said it on many occasions. The young people and the young people of Greece are leaving in the face of the lack of opportunity and the desire and policies that are being put in place and which have put in place their government. That you come here today saying that you're going to create ambassadors around the world was what we lacked for listening, Counselor. I mean, we don't want to chronicize the presence of the Galician youth abroad, which is what this measure is about. What we want is for them to set up programs to bring them back, Counsellor; that's what we want and that's what we've been complaining about for years. We don't want embassies, we want them here and we want to recover that talent that we lose and that we need as society as well. [[Applause]] As for the newborns, I remember perfectly, with regard to what you said to me in the Committee on Budgets, what I said and repeat here again: that I do not have children and that I doubt that the EUR 100 per month was sufficient for the expenses. And indeed, I do not have the experience, but I do have the data: the Federation of Users and Consumers says their 1,200 euros a year are quite insufficient, Counsellor, because a minor, a child, in his first year of life, needs the month between 1,900 and 2,500 euros, and this is not the experience, these are the data. And, by the way, by the way... yes, of occurrences, the occurrence you had yesterday, because now it seems that everyone has risen today and will be encouraged to have children after you have signed an agreement to give themselves to parents and mothers who have just brought a child to this world 150 bottles of water; that, Counselor, in the country of the thousand rivers of Cunqueriro. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That, Counselor, is indeed a true occurrence. In short, Counselor, you try to perfume your department of social policy, without cleaning up the policies that generate inequality. That's good for advertising, and it can even get to the Mayor of Ferrol, of course, to be a candidate for that city. But, Counselor, that doesn't serve to improve people's lives. And nothing else, for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u64	Thank you. Good day or good afternoon, Counselor. Look, I thank you for something in this appearance, the difference between others, which is that you recognized that the crisis has generated -- exactly -- greater social inequalities. We agreed, we agreed; what we didn't agree on is the diagnosis of why. I'm not going to degrade the data, which has already been exposed here. Nor should we say so to the opposition groups, because the European Commission itself, in its report on the economy of the Spanish State, points out that poverty, social exclusion and inequality have been consolidated, and this has worsened in Galicia. By the way, a relevant data if I'm going to mention it, which is the loss of active population between youth. That doesn't come back with programs that are subsidising emigration. That recovers from real employment policies for young people. But finally, he said we did not certainly agree with the diagnosis, because it was not just the crisis that consolidated inequalities; precisely the policies applied during the crisis, the cuts in public spending. You assumed to meet the deficit, but it was precisely the fulfilment of the deficit, the fulfilment of the deficit imposed in the southern states of Europe, which consolidated inequalities. And we always talk about this context, of the European context, because we are witnessing the theft of financial powers over the welfare state systems. That's not where our country is. I also wanted to point out that this cut, that fall in public spending, that take away resources from social protection models, that they don't even come up as models of social protection, what it does is to recapture these functions into families; in those families that want to empower and care, precisely in women, who care most about care, and also bring about the fall of that model over an increasingly stressed and saturated staff. Finally, not only do we need public social protection systems, but also other policies that do not sink into poverty. But going to these public social protection systems, what we need is to finance them well. You referred to self-financing and pointed out as an opportunity that we have an ageing rate above the state average, and that we have a population dispersion. That's what you see as an opportunity, we don't understand that this is the way to deal with autonomic funding. What we need is, precisely, adequate funding and a political framework to enable us to implement public programmes aimed at correcting these situations, correcting aging, correcting territorial imbalance, not correcting population dispersion, because our country is so. But in this respect, what is needed is territorial management, and the development of Community social services, which are essential for the provision of social protection, must be made appropriate to the reality of the country, and there we are in favour of the development of the Statute of autonomy with regard to comarcacalization. A network of community social services cannot be designed without taking account of Galicia's characteristics. And speaking of community social services, it is assumed of community social services when reality — I hope you know it — is that there is an oversaturation of workers and workers by that, precisely, bureaucracy that we call it the bureaucratization of poverty; it has already pointed out, the excessive attention to situations of solving administrative issues, that is what is happening to the workers and social educators in this country. How do you compare that with betting for well-being? That is what we believe is not only the need for counseling to contribute money to these services, but also the return of municipal autonomy, precisely by the financial powers of those we were talking about at first, to let the municipal administration have autonomy for both recruitment and, also, to have another type of funding. We're constantly talking about funding, but it's just that without funding your advice will only be used to apply palliative care, and we want to apply policies that remove the disease from that demographic factor that you refer to. And you're sure you're one of your government's bannermen to claim other policies to stop this demographic decline, but we think they're wrong. We look at the demographic decline as a symptom, not as a curse. It is a symptom of this lack of employment, of being one of the worst-rate countries with regard to the precarious employment of the whole European Union. And speaking of demography, of course it does not recover with incoming baskets, it recovers with employment and services worthy of all over the territory. There too, in aging, pensions must be taken into account. They again assumed to have that supplement for non-contributory pensions, but they don't assume so much that we are the country with the lowest pensions in the state. And it's just that almost 500,000 older people are at risk of poverty because their pensions are low. By the way, they're also the object of these financial powers that we're continually referring to, because it's very related to your advisor's office. It's social protection policies, it's one of the ways in which these new masters of the world want to rob. Personal, related to this matter. They assumed all the advisors and advisors who passed by the public staff as a service guarantor, but they do not say that the rate of temporaryity in the Italian public sector has grown to 24.5 % in 2016, exceeding the state average. They froze the wages of workers and workers... by the way, also assuming reconciliation in the temporary staff of their counsellor's centres, not allowed the interim workers to exchange jobs, as if they did the staff done, with which they increased three hours, in many cases, the working day; therefore, working hours there, very little. I remind you, in addition, that the precariousness of work in the public sector is equal to the precariousness of public services, and this has increased the rate of accidents at work. Anyway, following the thread and the different issues that you've numbered, it's impossible to summarize everything in ten minutes, I have only four left. I'll tell him we believe there's a lack of awareness of the reality of social exclusion. And we don't believe it, as well as the entity you mentioned, the Galician Network against Poverty, demands that a real mapping of needs be made. We're not calculating, we're not exactly visualizing, we don't have in mind the reality of social exclusion, which is immense. And in this regard to Risga, which is meant to be an income that makes up for this social exclusion, what she's doing is simply an alms. The accounts, as already stated here, are totally insufficient. The development of the Law of Social Inclusion with that decree that announces is, of course, very late, very late. Severe poverty has increased and, moreover, it hasn't pointed out to us whether the council will do anything so that that judgment that comes to recognize that Risk is an individual right, which is a subjective right, whether it's going to do something so that by now all the people who are living together can each of them charge Risk. We must also finish in this regard, this is very much related to municipal social services, to the arbitraryness of the risk resolution, because they are different according to territorial bosses, they are made by administrative staff, not by staff who have knowledge in social services. This generates a lot of injustice, generates resources, new administrative burden on the staff of Community social services, a new collapse of those fundamental services. And we arrived at the conciliation, as a result of the star. We have already told you in the previous plenary, I don't know if you were in the debate, that we see not only child education as a means of conciliation, but as a right to education on the part of these children. But we were talking about the children's house debate. I wonder why they assume this system when today, I think, March 7, there are the people who support the nesting houses without charging for the months of January and February. You realize the reality of those 30 people who said they had nested houses, most women and many of them girls, and on the eve of March 8 they have to be able to cope with those expenses that keep running even if the council doesn't pay them -- keep running the rent expense, the expense of material, the expense of paying the quota of self-employed, they keep running -- in order to sustain that service, they have to take a hand out of their family environment. This is not emancipation, this is not promoting rural employment, that star measure is pending review, it's pending that they have clear criteria to know the workers themselves and the counsellors themselves they have to do. I mean, little houses, now I understand why this non-police proposal from the PP that urged this resource to be consolidated. There's a lot to get better. Quality public resources network, they're fundamental, you have to... you've assumed to extend residences. Galicia is the fourth community in the state with a lower percentage of public squares over the total. This also involves more concerts with private entities and concerts with entities that exploit staff. We know what exploited staff means, not only for the workers themselves, but for the service. It's a public network, by the way, that we have to keep in good condition and avoid the continuing absence of basic work materials. It's a constant that workers and workers, both in health care and in social services, tell you that even they lack leathers. Finally, we are no longer talking about the dependency, which has already been sufficiently treated, the lack of connection of mental health and social services. The relationship between poverty, behavioural disorders, social exclusion and suicide is clear, a rate that in Galicia, already high, has increased during the crisis. Comprehensive care and prevention programmes are needed and the Strategic Mental Health Plan needs to be developed. And then I ended up pointing to those forgotten realities that you just had, or didn't, reference to your intervention. Prostitution, why don't you give a word to people, mostly women, who practice prostitution and want to get out of this situation? What are you forecasting and helping and what awareness campaigns? The Romanian people whom you referred to, are still awaiting their integration. Functional diversity, unemployment rate is more than 36%, it is much higher than the European Union average, and inclusion activities are not working. And the prisons, they're still denying the Members and Members that we're asking for access to the prisons. And what are they going to do to claim prison health skills, which, as long as they don't, will continue to violate the health rights of people imprisoned in Greek prisons. And finally, the welcome of refugees, it doesn't mean that you cooperate with the Red Cross, you have to have a welcome plan for those people who on the borders of that Europe who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u66	...has applied these policies that force them to cut are being ignored...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u67	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Santos, we're still waiting for your apology, for the slander you've been spreading on social media for the weekend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u69	To the point. That's the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u70	I'm going to the point, Mr. President. Looks like Mrs. Santos is making fun of what they're called...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u71	Thank you. On the issue, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u72	...companies in this women's murder group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u73	That's the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u74	But, of course, it doesn't make us laugh. So stop laughing and apologize.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u75	Thank you. To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u76	There you are. Mr Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, the first 100 days of government and the Galician Union are budgeted for social policies, and today the Councillor is explaining the planning for all this legislation on social policy. Only this year the Galician Union is destined for social policies EUR 643.5 million. We're talking about 2017 as the most resourceful year for social policies in the history of our community, the most resourceful year for fighting against inequality and social exclusion, caring for our elders, caring for dependent people, supporting families, supporting children. And here we hear, after all this, some opposition group that this only responds to a malicious plan of the Galician Union to withdraw people's rights and that they have to turn to charity. Please, a little more serious on the part of your ideas, because we are talking about social policies and we are talking about people, especially people who at this time in Galicia need our help and need the seriousness on the part of the parties and the political groups that we are represented here. More resources for people at risk of social exclusion. In 2014 Galician Union launched the 2014-2020 Social Inclusion Strategy, which has over 521 million euros. And this year the budget allocates € 107 million to care for people at risk of social exclusion; 20 million more than last year and 73 million more than in 2009. And that's what you call cutting and calling reducing people's rights. In addition, a new unique social agenda was set up in Galicia, cool of what? Not from the genius of the Galician Union, but from cooperation, cooperation and commitment to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. And she was consensual with the Fegamp, with the municipalities, with the social entities, because the Galician Union believes in cooperation with the social entities, and the Galician Union believes in cooperation with the municipalities. And, in contrast, what are you doing? Collaborate with social entities? No, no, no, no. You're reducing support to social institutions every day. In the Town Hall of Santiago, 47,000 euros were eliminated from aid to social entities fighting poverty and social exclusion. In the Town Hall of Coruña they have applied the biggest cut in the history of aid in recent years, cutting to social entities more than EUR 196,000. So we are in cooperation with social entities and with municipalities, with which you are, reducing the aid to social entities that work to help people who are worse off? And then they lose millions of European grants that come to help these people. Because, specifically, in the City of Santiago, you lost a European grant of EUR 5 million to fight poverty and social exclusion. This is their seriousness and their commitment to the people who need it most in our community. We're talking about more resources for people who get a risk. Specifically, 57.5 million euros this year. They increase 5 million in relation to last year and 65 million in relation to the year 2009. And the spokesperson for the Socialist Group reminds him that Risk is compatible with employment income. When the law was changed, it became compatible to receive a Risk with a temporary job. And there's also help in recruiting people who perceive the risk from the municipalities. And I remind you that at this moment more than 2,500 people who have taken a risk have been hired through the municipalities, and, besides, non-contributory pensions, of which you have just said that they are not enough, only four communities in Spain have the complement of taxpayer pensions, four! One of them is Galicia, and Galicia is the community that pays the most for that supplement of non-contributory pensions, and it turns out that it seems little to you, surely it seems less when the Socialist Party frozen pensions for all people in our community and our country. And you talk about that Risga had to be bigger, they have to clarify themselves, because among you they're going to argue if they want a universal income, if they want a basic income for all people, regardless of whether they work, if they don't work, or what their economic conditions are, but then they're putting their star project in the Town Council, promising a basic income for all citizens who project it with 2.1 million euros. It turns out that of these 2.1 million euros you spend 1.8 to buy bicycles, and those of the 300,000 euros that you're left with give you a basic social income. Actually, they come here to teach lessons, they have to look at what you do in your municipalities first; repeat it, please. [[Applause]] And the socialist spokesman tells us he's proud of the law of dependence. Look, ma'am, we're also proud that a law of dependency had been passed, but with pride the dependents were not paid or cared for; they were paid with budgets and their pride was to pass a law that then had absolutely no funds to attend to anyone in Galicia. And look, this year, dependent people count on 336 million euros, when you rule, how much did you count? With 126 million euros. You will understand that with this difference more dependent people can be treated in Galicia, specifically in 2009, 35% of the people who needed it, and this year the ratio of care is 72%, above the average state ratio. More resources to help home, more resources for disability, specifically 95 million euros, more resources for families, 123 million euros, 10 million euros more than in 2016 and 126% more than in 2009. The bonus is extended to EUR 2.4 million. We're talking about 3,000 families, 3,000 Greek families will be able to access this good care. We're talking about more than 14,300 families already counting on the welcome card, that card that you made fun of when you first came to announce it to this Parliament, and now they say that these 1,200 euros don't reach the child's upbringing. They're probably insufficient, but zero euros, which is what you were giving, are likely to come less than the 1,200 that currently gives Galician Union. And look, right now we have more public squares in children's schools, and you're talking about reducing social infrastructure. 22.316 squares in children's schools, exceed four points the coverage recommended by the European Union, which is 33%; more public squares, 13,000 public squares in social infrastructure, 55% more than in 2009. And now they have doubts about the construction of 7 new residences for older, with more than 900 public squares, with an investment of 47 million euros and the creation of more than 500 jobs. All you have to do is ask when they're going into operation. By the way, they also wondered when the nested houses that didn't exist would come into operation, and they were also mocking the nested houses, and now, at the moment, there are 30 nested houses in operation and 30 other houses that are going to be put into operation this year 2017. But, of course, I understand that you don't understand that to build and put 7 residences into operation, it takes 47 million euros, because, look, if you guide us through your accounts, you in the budget debate wanted 65 social infrastructures to be built, we're talking about residences and day centers, with 10.8 million euros. If we follow your accounts, when it would really take more than 100 million euros, for you with 47 million euros that are going to make 7 residences, with your accounts we would make 315 new residences in Galicia, but it's just that things aren't like that, things are much more serious. So check your model, because -- I've finished with a phrase that's not mine, but it's a big tide mayor, specifically the Mayor of Compostela -- sometimes there's an easy speech -- which is what is used here today by opposition groups -- and other times it's reality. Today the advisor saw the reality, the reality of people's social policies and Galicia, and you come to make an easy speech. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica, Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, I don't come here to give headlines to the press, I come here to come, on my own request, to explain the strategic lines of the Social Policy Council for four years. I suppose you're not here to give headlines to the press either, but to let all Members be able to share what are the strategic lines of a very sensitive advisor's office, which is the Social Policy Council for four years. Then tell me I'm talking here as if we're just here. In fact, we're just here, we're in a new legislation, we arrived here on September 25, 2016 because the Greeks asked us to start a new four-year stage in Galicia, and the balance was really that of the Greeks. We may like it better or we may like it less, but they expressed with their will what was the exam of the balance, so I'm telling you about the future, because I'm here to talk about a legislation, not to talk about the past. In any case, she also tells me, Mrs. Prado, that we do not articulate a public welfare service. I've already told Mrs. Rodríguez Arias something, look, it's not going to take me more than half a minute, because I think it's not worth it, but we've moved from 12,000 squares to 22,000 squares in eight years, we go from 6,000 squares to 10,000 squares, we go from 975 squares to 2,600 squares and in disability care centers we go from 4,600 squares to 5,100 squares. So, well, you may think it was little, but, I tell you, it depends on which indicator it is based, because there has been a very important advance in the public care system to people who need it most. But we're not here for this, we're here because we have a lot left to do and we're willing to invest these four years in doing a lot of things for the Greeks and the Greeks, especially for the Greeks and the Greeks that most need us. That's why, really, we're not going to talk about the past, we're going to try, among others, to talk about the future. Look, with regard to the issue of residences, which we present an idea, look, is that in a hundred days what we did was a plan director, made by very serious people, by very serious technicians and professionals, because things, I say, can be done in many ways, but we have to first have a plan director to develop all the steps to make this objective come true in this legislation. So we're starting the legislation, the arrangement is 900 new squares in higher residences for the Greeks, to avoid a bad date right now, which are the waiting lists, which we think are very improved. And then, really, not to give press headlines or to take a breast, really. I repeat my intervention, I really ask you, because what we have done constantly in the intervention is to see proposals for improvement for the future, so let's go, let's go, let's go, because we have a lot to do. And I mean, we're not here for what we've done, we're here because we have an ambition to do: a much better social policy in the next four years. That there are situations of need and situations of inequality? Look, I'm not going to go into either Eurostat or INE's war, we could do it, but I think it takes a time to do this to really focus on what we can do to help all those people. Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez, I fully agree, the law of dependency has been a great advance, but it is neither the beginning nor the end of the law; I think we must continue to work among all, because in fact we are analyzing the ten years of application right now, the ten years of application of that law. I didn't threaten for anything, nor did I have a clear opinion of the general government's budget, but I don't know that to modify the national contribution framework, which can have a very direct impact on a community like our own — which brings far more of our funds than the State funds — we need national budgetary measures, I think it's a clear issue. But I'm saying, I'm not trying to condition anything, I've only shown one reality, which brings up the Greeks and what brings about the national system. Full coincidence with what he says. We need to improve the funding and we need to improve the payroll. So we're going to work on this legislation for those two things. Given a risk data, we should tone it in what it has to do with the percentage of Galicians who perceive the risk. It must also be taken into account, a very important effect, which is a larger population, which, as you know, does not perceive Risk and therefore sometimes generates a certain discussion in comparison. But I'm saying, I'm not a lot of comparisons or statistics why, because it's obvious that there are situations of a lot of need, and at the end I think that between what we have to do and a statistic, I think we have to -- especially the Government, I understand it much more in the opposition groups -- to do is to be very focused on what we have to do, rather than if it's a more or a less point. I can't match what he said about disability. There are many more disability sites now eight years ago -- I told Mrs. Prado -- in Galicia, and all disability entities have support; well, I'm not going to give percentages too, but much higher support than they had a few years ago, and if you don't ask disability entities, they'll tell you. In any case, any real situation I'm at your disposal, because in disability, too, as in other areas, we have much to move forward, and the more we can move forward among all of us much better. Mrs. Vázquez Verao, I was beginning to agree with me, I'm a little concerned, but not so much, because I actually talked about inequality, about the increase in inequality, I say, why are we going to go to statistics? I think it's a fact. I'm not going to get into the causes, because it's an excessively political issue, and I can talk about many programs that we have to develop. And, as I said before, we prefer to focus on how to fight those effects that we have contrasted with that there is a lot of inequality, and what we have to do in these four years is more programs and more budget to reduce inequality. You're right about some questions about workers at the Social Policy Council, I'm not going to deny it, but I think we're also making a lot of progress in improving the working and economic conditions of many, hundreds of workers at the Social Policy Council. We even signed a very important agreement yesterday, the socierge of Fairy and I -- I really thank the socierge of Fairy for all the willingness he had and all the patience he had to achieve this agreement -- with three Greek trade unions, with the IGC, with the UXT and with Labour Commissions, which I think will be very important to improve the conditions of the workers who care for people, and how they care for people are our main asset. Our main asset is a little budget, of course, but so are people who work directly and indirectly in our council, taking care of the others. Tell me about the little house thing. There is indeed a delay as a result of the budget opening. Fortunately, we have approved budgets. Imagine many administrations that do not have the approved budgets the delays that cause them to pay off a lot of bills! I'm telling you it'll be fixed in weeks. All the investment has been stolen, according to my transmission, but, in any case, I also tell you, for things of a punctual nature like this, I don't hesitate to talk to the advisor, because, in the end, the advisor is the most responsible of a great structure, but he's also for small things, because we have to be able to meet the big issues and to meet the small details. Tell me - and the truth is I didn't use it in the intervention and you're very right, I take good note of what you say - about socio-health coordination. It's another of the most important challenges to improving our social policy. Tell me we have to improve our performance in Galician prisons. Here I spoke, in my intervention, of an experience that I think is extraordinary that we are developing in Galicia, where we are working. I take note of what you're saying, but we're working on expanding it to other Galician prisons. He told me about refugees. I made allusion to that. What we can say is that Galicia, of course, is a people who are willing to receive with the utmost attention and the maximum rights, health, education and social rights, people who agree from the point of view of the European Union. He knows that this is a policy that is marked from Brussels, and we can do it is to put all resources, precisely, that we have at the disposal of those who arrive. What I can tell you is that everyone who came, basically from two entities, from the Red Cross and ACCEM -- that I really thank them for the work they're doing day by day -- they have a normal life in Galicia, and that's not news I think it's the best news we can give in this audience. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u79	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u80	Well, Counsellor, the People's Party Member said that you came here today to talk about realities. I'd have to tell you that virtual reality, because, look at what occurrences we have to ask you about seven residence ads!; an announcement that is not in the budgets, that there are no places and so on... look what occurrences we have to ask you, when, where, in what way, what budget, what planning and what schedule! We have every occurrence! It will be the least the opposition can ask a government! Of course, in the face of those questions, we have the non-response as an answer, but it seems obvious that we have to ask about these things. And then you just assumed that you came here to present your own request to talk about the lines of the Council. It's just that the opposition groups' request doesn't come either you or any of your comrades and comrades, Counselor! You can only come your own request! [[Applause]] I just don't really know, sometimes I don't think I know if they want to laugh a little about us! And I'm glad that you admit that much remains to be done, because obviously, eight years and two legislations later, is that there is much left to be done to the Government of the People's Party. And, look, in the fight against poverty and exclusion, what must be done is a completely different economic policy, diametrically opposed to what the People's Party is doing. What is to believe in Galicia's responsibilities and potentials, develop them, stop acting in the service of the capital and exercise as the Government of Galicia, demand what is ours and stop acting with submission and with the dictates of Madrid. You said here they were going to demand, but, well, then, would you plant yourself in front of the design that the Government of Madrid has about Galicia? Will a financing system exist where Galicia has something to say and simply does not accept what they say from Madrid? They're going to plant and jump for a concert where we're going to freshen up and decide what to do with our resources? When you say you're going to demand to mean that or say here that you're going to demand and when you get to Madrid say amen what you say there? Of course, because if they're going to do what I just said, they'll certainly have the applause and support of the Galician Nationalist Block. Look, the People's Party for Galicia's economic and social model is suicide, Counselor, it's absolutely suicide. And the demographic crisis has nothing to do with the low fertility rate; you know perfectly well that it has to do with the economic situation, it has to do with the economy. The demographic situation is not a problem of indicators, of fertility rates, it has to do with the economy. Look, yesterday the public television in Galicia gave a data: they were lost in Galicia in 2016, 1,300 autonomous women, a vast majority in rural areas. That does have to do with demography, that there is no ability to develop a life plan in this country. That's what it has to do with demography! And in order to be able to make future projects, it's essential to do an analysis of the situation, to be able to implement policies that change that situation, because, look, with tirites and aspirins, you don't cure a serious sick person. The situation in Galicia is of such gravity that it is not solved with tyrants and aspirins. And what you came here today is mere palliative care for a sick person who needs structural measures, of silence, to go in the entirely opposite direction. You here said on several occasions: we're going to get funds, see if we get funds, see if... what would you think if, instead of asking for funds, we put Galicia to produce? What would you think if, instead of begging for funds in exchange for dismantling the country, we made the country produce, we believed in our potentials and we could live and work decently on our land? What do you think of as a demographic plan to make a return plan for our youth and that they can live and work decently on our land? That really would be the real bet they'd have to make. And, look, today we've talked about a lot of things. Of course we have time taxed and we cannot talk about everything, but on several occasions they have repeated the topic of cooperation with the municipalities, of which they are very proud. And why, if you talk about cooperation, do you approve by the back door, in the Budget Accompanying Act, a co-financing regime with the municipalities that you want to be simply pagans? What you and the Government of the Union want is to exclude the councils from decision-making capacity, that they can say nothing about the model of social policies that the Union is implementing, that the Union makes the decisions, that it makes the accounts as it considers, with obscurantism, and that the councils pay. That's what you call collaboration and work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u82	With which, I ask you to change that traffic policy and leave that arrogant position with the municipalities, who do not intend to shield the accounts that the consortia present to the municipalities and that they really dialogue and speak to the councils, that they really talk to the municipalities. In short, I'm sorry to tell you here, Mr. King Varela, that, far from a social policy, what you have in your council is a sum of centres, juvenile centers, children's schools, daytime centers, but you don't have a real social policy. To finish, two questions, on the subject of Risk: Will you accept the sentence of Vigo's trial? And will you accept that in a family unit there could be more than one risk? How will you carry out the evaluation of what you announced here today?, in what temporary space?, in what way? And how will you be able to verify all the issues you said here today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u84	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, I don't agree with you about the data, I've always thought -- and I think I share it with my colleagues and colleagues in the Socialist Group -- that the data show the reality, and that this is necessary to make a diagnosis, and that's the previous step, too, to know what measures to apply then. As for the Law of Dependency, we return to the same debate as the People's Party Member, who is already the root of the same debate. It's the taped disc, because, look, the Dependency Law -- and it's going to say it again -- is a progressive law of application, which, indeed, before he comes here and says it, came into force in 2007 and which has been applied progressively. But anyway, if you want a data, I will give it to you, Madam, because you always insist on it. The individual investment in 2009 was EUR 6,459 per dependent. In 2016 it is 6,041; i.e. less than 400 euros per investment person from the two-party government to now. And it's not a lack of knowledge, Counselor, of the impact that the government's budget has on the rest of the autonomous communities, I know it perfectly well. To me the thing that strongly draws my attention -- and let me say it like this -- is that one thing is connected with the other, when you're entering your own party into very serious contradictions. I have statements here from the State Secretary of Social Services where he says, "The state provides the necessary funds to cover the dependency. We should ask the administrations that have happened with these funds." Of course, if you come to tell me here that you're going to continue claiming 50%, 50-50 that marks the law, and at the same time a person from the same party in Madrid says this, so, Counsellor, you're clear; or it's that when they get there they don't value the weight they have or do not have or do not directly listen to them when they get there. And what concerns are rarer, we have the opposition Members and Members who want to know, when there is a project in Galicia, when this project is going to be done, when it is going to start! It's funny that we want to know the date of the start-up of senior residences, and more when things like that happen, you can check out the July Sessions Journal in 2009. Today's spokesman for the Socialist Group insisted on the need to make Santiago's eldest residence, which the Socialist Council had already made available to the Bipartite, and when there was a change of government, it was rejected by the Government of the People's Party. So, of course, from 2009 until 2017, so, Counsellor, allow me to ask you in this case when you are going to launch that residence, and more so if you notice that in that same year a Member who is now in this Chamber, of Santiago, said that residence would be an imminent reality. The immediate reality is that practically both this Member and I will be retired and the residence will be closed. That's the reality that we're getting closer to day by day. [[Applause]] And all this in a city like Santiago -- and I'm talking about Santiago because, as they always say I'm talking about Ourense, today I'm going to value the capital -- with 20,000 people over the age of 65. The same is true of the children's schools of Mos and the Road, which cited the advisor, who were already in 2016 and had to be set up a year ago. Let me ask you again about the issue of Risk and that if more than one family member will be allowed to continue to receive this income. And the last seconds of my speech, Counselor, I would like to ask you about those families that are awaiting adoption in Burundi and Ethiopia, who are people who have been waiting for more than five years and are going through a real calvary, who are going through fatal, Mr. Counsellor. Because it's true that the manager is ECAI, but you didn't do the controls you had to do to get what's happening right now. And I ask you to answer us if you're going to do some kind of mediation with the Government of Spain to open up a diplomatic route and in that sense try to solve the situation of these families. Counsellor, to us, to the Socialist Group, they will find us to reach agreements when their proposals are brave, invest in social policy and be intelligent; but, above all, Counsellor, when they have soul. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u86	Well, tell me that we do not agree with the diagnosis of political differences, of course, we are in Parliament, we have different political alternatives. And alternatives I wanted to talk about, because, of course, Marea came not only to criticize, but also to bring up a number of issues that are not only technical, or not only technical ideas to alleviate inequality in Galicia, but rather political and behind political burdens. First of all, of course, I suppose we're not going to agree, but what we did was to ban labour reforms and stop all the policies that, in the excuse of the crisis, have rooted in inequality. But finally, I'm going to point out a number of proposals, and then I'm going to ask you to explain, in addition to questions you haven't answered. But I would like to start with the proposals, firstly — as I have already said — an assessment of the real social needs in Galicia is necessary, with the protagonists of both the municipal social services and the social institutions. We hope that if you do a real map for municipalities, that this can't wait any longer, apart from the impact that this would have on social consciousness about the reality of poverty, which is much more than we have in mind. Secondly, also a shock plan against severe material exclusion within the framework of a necessary Welsh strategy for homeless people. In this respect we are the second largest community in the state with a large number of homeless people in relation to the population, 133 homeless people per 100,000 inhabitants. Let's make a commitment to map that map again, that need for knowledge of the territory; map the real needs of low-necessity resources for these homeless people. We even want a parliamentary subcommittee or a presentation on a committee to make the reality of poverty visible. And thirdly, another of the pacts or proposals that we bring to you, and I hope that we agree with the whole House in its need, is to visualize a reality that is still very taboo today and that has an impact on the worsening of this one, which is a pact against child abuse and sexual abuse in childhood. The situation of the child—you said it in your intervention—there are more minors protected by the Union, the phone calls of the minor have been increased... but in this country there are no investigations necessary to provide in-depth data on child abuse and abuse. There are only estimates that are shocking: 1 out of every 5 children suffers from some kind of sexual abuse — 1 out of every 5 — a specific plan is needed to address this reality. Another of the proposals we bring — politics, this is very political — are social clauses in public procurement. And think about what would change the economy of this country, what would improve the lives of people and also of users with a responsible public purchase by the Administration with nearby supplies. And also avoid concerts with companies that exploit staff, because the ratios of patients with private homes and day centres in this country and with public squares are not admissible. And last of all, because of a people's risk. As long as we don't get to that social income, we don't need to give that debate to change risk issues that are tremendously inhuman. Why? Answer — as the rest of the opposition's spokespersons asked — that sentence will be applied and that people can charge a Risk even if they live together; and that sentence will be applied which gave the reason to two people who lived and charged Risk. And, too, answer if you're going to develop that decree once, which said yes, when? Because it's not worth saying soon. Just like the theme of the nesting houses, which said it was a minor matter. Well, for people who are waiting to charge, it's not a minor matter, and in weeks it assumes, perhaps, depending on or continuing to depend on that family environment. I say, on the eve of March 8, it is sad that women — and who are fundamentally new women — must depend on the family or borrow money to secure a service. That can't be the case. And that also responds to improvisation, because the counsellor's own staff can't answer them if they're going to charge for the two months, if for now only one, if, when, what they have to do to justify the student's attendances, where they have to register them, then there's a lot to be done at the best of that resource of children, which we -- we repeat -- must be within an early childhood education plan in Galicia. And public staff, the Vth Convention or agreement, without time, was it not? Apart from the fact that — it has been pointed out here through the so-called Accompanying Law — they have changed public staff conditions without negotiation. Finally, that we bring proposals, we believe these proposals would improve people's lives, yes, but what would improve people's lives would be to stop the policies that are sinking into inequality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u87	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me remind you that we keep waiting, Mrs. Santos, for your apology.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u89	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u90	Excuse yourself, Mrs. Santos, you're still in time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u91	That's the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u92	On this issue, Mr. President. It turns out that for opposition groups, Counselor, you don't have a real social policy, that's the problem. You have budgets, you have the Galician Board planning not only for this year, but for all legislation, you have resources to apply these measures in all areas of your advice, but, really, you don't have a real social policy, that's the problem you have in your advice. And of course, that statement of opposition makes us reflect; then, if the social policy of the Galician Union, the People's Party, is not genuine, we may have to copy another kind of social policy that is really authentic. Social policies such as those that are taking place in various councils the groups that represent the opposition here, social policies where the councils where they govern lead the ranking of the officially poor councils in social services; of course, that is not a real social policy. Councils that are investing less than the average State per inhabitant in social services. We're talking about the state average of 60 euros per inhabitant, and we're talking about municipalities like Vigo's -- which I remember as their mayor said: "Vigo's social policies are the most important in Spain," -- but soon when you have to put money to care for Vigo's people who need it the most for 43 euros per inhabitant; and the Pontevedra Town Hall, ruled by the Nationalist Block, also 35 euros per inhabitant; and the Cangas Town Hall, governed by tides, 32 euros per inhabitant; or the Carballo Town Hall, also nationalist, 30 euros per inhabitant. So if the real social policy that you want to apply to the Galician Union is to lead the ranking of the officially poor autonomous communities in social services, we're not going to do it, we're not going to do it. So this year is the year that most resources are allocated to social policies. We spoke again of the Dependency Law, of course, when it touched us, the application was progressive, wasn't it, Mrs. Blanco? Sure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When the person responsible for applying the law of dependency was, of course, the Socialist Party, the application is progressive. Well, look, it was progressive because the first few years had to meet those who needed it most. And then, over the next few years, people with a lower degree will be included in the Unit Care Service. And when you had to take care of the most serious people in Galicia, they didn't. And when you had to budget money to help those people, you had to budget 126 million euros. And now it's 336 million euros that Galicia dedicates to caring for dependent people. But, of course, it was progressive, so it was up to the People's Party to attend to people, because when we were as progressive as we were... But the Socialist Party has already passed the Dependency Act, then it has already complied with people in a dependency situation in Galicia. No, with people, it takes care of people. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Taking care of the people, Mrs. Blanco. [[Applause]] Caring for people, Mrs. Blanco, looking after them. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Taking care of people. [[Applause]] And, look, the ratio of attention -- I remind you -- in 2009 was 35%, today the ratio of attention is 72%; for the first time Galicia exceeds the ratio of state, which is 71%. So indeed, there are still people left to attend, but what you cannot come here and discredit the work and effort that the People's Party's Government has made to meet as many people as possible. And if you want to talk about resources, we can talk about that inclusion has 9 million euros more than last year and 73 million euros more than in 2009; Risga has 5 million more than last year and 65 million more than last year; dependency has 13 million more than last year and 210 million more than last year; disability spends 2 million more than last year and 30 million more than last year; family policies dedicate 10 million euros more than last year and 126 million euros more than in 2009. So — to conclude, Mr President — there is now a common front in Galicia against social exclusion, a common front against poverty. A common front that's joining Galician Union, Fegamp and social entities. A common front to which the whole of Galician society is asking the Galician Parliament and the opposition groups to join. Please do not demagogy and add yourself to that common front against poverty and social exclusion. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close the court, Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, two very timely questions to be able to answer questions that emerged in the second part of the group's questions. Therefore, those who were asking about the risk — Galician social integration income — the Government has the will, of course — it has no doubt — to comply with the judicial resolutions, but also to develop the Decree — as I said — of the development of the Act of inclusion, to incorporate things that are not currently incorporated into the general regulations governing Galicia's social income. And, I mean, I think, in addition, it's not a question of government, it's a question that the Greeks have a great social income and that there are many administrations that can copy us to determine how things can be done right in terms of inclusion. Much remains to be done, it is true, but we also said the data, more than 10 million euros more in the last two years that allow us to develop a political reality through economic programmes. With regard to the issue of international adoptions, which I was asked, throughout this process — as you can imagine — there was a permanent communication between the directors of the Social Policy Council with the State, with the Ministry and with other autonomous communities. In particular, I tell you two, of different political colors: Madrid and Valencia, who moved forward for a few weeks to Galicia's decision to close the OAI. The consultation was held on which I was asked with the ministry about the possibility of continuing these proceedings through a public protocol, the ministry opposed negatively, because the countries of origin are not countries that have subscribed to the Hague Convention. In any case, I've already told you that our mediation work — as it cannot be otherwise — continues. Specifically, on Thursday this week, on Thursday, March 9, the Director General of the Family will meet with the Director General in the State, because we are going to continue exploring — as it cannot be otherwise —; we are talking about families — as you can imagine — in a general situation that has changed a lot these years. So what we can't either deceive families or generate expectations that we can't meet. What happened in 2012 in Ethiopia is, of course, something that doesn't go into normal parameters. It is our desire, of course, to support the entire process of international adoption of families. Also knowing -- if we have to always kill -- that our ultimate goal to protect is to protect children and children, and that the entire adoption process, of course, is very favourable to our family policies, but that eventually children and children are those who really have to benefit from this process. I take note of what was said here, too, as lines of action and development by some groups. The issues of child abuse and accessibility, I say, are complementary to the lines we're creating, in the second especially with the municipalities. In the issues of child abuse, we also have great experiences of social entities who have been working with minors for a long time and can help us a lot on this path. They didn't comment on me, but in my first speech I pointed out another strategy, in addition to that of child abuse and accessibility, which is also very important, which I think we should develop in the future, I said, and it's the one to care for homeless people, where I think we should coordinate among all the devices that we have: NGOs, municipalities and Members, because the goal is not to give this situation. I was also told about social clauses in public administration. Look, in Galicia we took a very important step in the last third of the previous legislation, which is by law the social concert; therefore, the development of these social clauses will have an opportunity to see it in the Social Policy Council, and of course we will focus on our recruitment not on private enterprises, when they can compete with social initiative entities duly accredited in each of the sectors of activity, mainly in the field of disability, which is where there is greater progress of social entities. So I very much appreciate the interventions, the subjects on which we have to complement the work of the next four years that we have ahead of us with that objective. I say, not about the causes, which we can also continue to talk about the causes, but about the purpose, and the objective is that the Social Policy Council will be able to channel a lot of millions of euros from all the Greeks to reduce inequalities. That's done with an budget that we've already approved in 2017, which uses more resources to reduce inequalities, and with a well-managed policy, too, from the point of view of management; not everything will be intentions, but we have to be able to do things right. As far as residences are concerned, our goal, as you know, is that in these four years we have 900 more squares of higher residences. So, I say, we have adopted a master plan, the next one will be the budgetary plans necessary for the entire public infrastructure, as you know perfectly well, but they give a margin of confidence, because I say we have four years to meet this goal; it's not going to be that we want to do everything in a few months and we don't realize that we have to schedule very well when there are so many public resources and when there are so many needs. We really count, and I've said it before, with magnificent professionals. I want to thank you for the work of the Secretary General of the Council, of the General Directors, of the senior positions of the Council, of the technicians we have in the Council, both in central services and in territorial delegations; in each of the Councils of Galicia we have staff from the Social Policy Council, because in addition to the major programs we do from central services, we also attend people every day in all the councils of our country. They're the ones who really help us do better. I want to thank them, especially, I say, from high office to the last of our direct and indirect workers. It may be that governments have more soul or less soul, but fortunately there are many people in Galicia, our workers, who have soul, who have heart, and that's why we're going to be able to give the best social policy to those who need us most in Galicia. That is why many thanks to the group of Members and political groups for their contributions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u95	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until five at least a.m. It's a complicated afternoon to this day, there's an important event, too. So let's suspend until five at least a quarter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u96	We restart the session with the third item on the agenda, which corresponds to the motions. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union to address the problems related to violence in sport
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u97	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group on the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u98	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u99	Good afternoon. Congratulations to all who, despite the hours... I'm going to try to follow the president's recommendations, which he told me it was right in time, that we've been on a clear day. It was better to have started at ten and not at ten and a quarter, waiting for the PP, that it didn't come in time, but, at any rate, we're going to go quickly. We bring here today a rather constructive motion that we hope can be adopted with the favourable vote of all groups. We believe that the issue deserves it and that it is possible to make some positive progress on this issue. What we're talking about is a reality that we see from a point of view beyond existing legislation. The other day, in the past full, in the appeal made to the councillor, we discussed some questions that I think it is appropriate to remember. First, we wanted to highlight and highlight the potential value of sport; potential in the sense of being a fundamental element of socialization and being an element, a vital aspect that has a very high formative value. Probably after the family and school is the third most important place in socialization and learning of collaborative values and probably some personal values that are important and that we could use to develop through sport. There is also an intergenerational cohabitation value that is not contemptible. However, in this context that has the sport itself, federated, non-federal, in competition, there are areas or contexts in which some type of violence develops. It's a violence that we often don't find directly because it's certainly camouflaged, and it helps to camouflage from a certain social tolerance that everyone -- everyone, without blame from anyone, all individually and collectively -- accepts in some way because they're not often aware of what happens. Just give me some data. Galicia is the third autonomous community in number of sports meetings sanctioned or with incidences, according to the Spanish Antiviolence Commission. The reality is that it's there. It is not a question of pointing out that we are faced with a problem that invalidates all sports activity, but of the existence of many problems that, because of them as usual or as more frequent than existing ones, or even many times that are justified as being part of the sport and those that underestimate its impact, we are not able to see with all the capacity. A recent UNESCO report pointed out that this reality is obvious and often takes place in the most massive sports; it is also an obvious issue of number and, above all, in sports of amateurs. We also want to highlight the importance of basic sport; above all, we can often demonstrate the initial non-intrusionality of these aggressive or non-edifying behaviors that are often given even in parents and mothers. We differ from three types of violence: the intergroup, which takes place between diseases above all, which is very peculiar to the massed sport and which is in a narrow way approximately well regulated. The only thing we believe is that maybe it's not so exacted in terms of the sanctions that apply, and by giving itself solely to the high level in clubs and equipment that have the most potential, especially economic, that are ultimately the foundation of sanctions, these are inefficient and do not contribute to changing the situation. But in any case, we believe that the main elements are in the violence that takes place in terms of gender and racism, discrimination and lack of equality principles. Sport is very masculinized, although there have been and have been many advances in recent times, and it is important to highlight them, but there are also many times a racism to which social scientists call "symbolic racism"; the one who is not, but who ultimately adopts conducts that he is. And therefore we must pay attention to this. There is a regulatory framework, and the regulatory framework is necessary, but in this case we believe it is insufficient. There are sanctions regulations that are necessary but are insufficient, and in addition, in the specific case of Galicia, there are excessively discreet bodies, for example, the Galician Commission on Violence Control, of which there is no real functioning and of which its composition is probably unknown. Sanctions are, therefore, a vicious circle, only given in a very small number of cases, and where they are given, or in situations where they are given, do not contribute to changing conduct or do not contribute to learning new behaviors; therefore, they are not being efficient. If we highlight the need for training aspects. The need for training aspects about sport is important not only in basic sport, which, of course, but also in amateur sports and -- why don't you say so too? -- in high-performance sport, where it's still necessary to train and educate, not only for the very value of actions, but for the exemplary value that these have on people, and especially on children who follow that type of sport. We believe that there is a lack of training in the face of violence in sport, and lacks the capacity to face it from a pedagogical point of view. We think this is the point where we have to sink. So, in short, there's an all-in-one legislation designed for the most visible sport, and we think it's necessary to go deep into all the sports and take advantage of the work and potential you have to improve the pedagogical aspect and transfer it to the basic sport, to the sports of amateurs. So let's bring this motion here with a series of proposals. First, data; no data is impossible to improve. And there's little data on Galicia. What is not measured cannot be improved, and we have proposed the need to measure the situation: how many sports meetings have been sanctioned? Who and what work do the people who are under that obligation to control those scenarios? What are the situations that are taking place? What are you doing? What can we do better? Actually, the ability to know the reality of what happens, because the number of data we have is very, very small. For the most part, the vast majority of situations that contain violent behaviour -- read between groups, read that they attack gender equality, read that they attack equality between people, regardless of issues such as race -- do not complain, therefore, they are not registered; and therefore, that prevents us from making a real analysis. We think it's important to have data, too, to know if we're able to have data properly. With that data we proposed the incorporation of experts, that yes, it already collects the law, but it is being insufficient, because it is likely that it is not being done or that it is not being done efficiently. So we've been considering the actual incorporation of field acquaintances, of technicians, who deepen in this sense. We also plan the need to differentiate, because there are at least two major areas in sport: adult sport and basic sport. It is true that in adult sports sanctions have an important character; as we say, it is necessary, but it must not be the cornerstone of legislation, it must not be the cornerstone of operation. Sanctions correct, but they don't teach. When sanctions disappear, the previous behavior returns, and we need to teach and train each other in the need of absolute respect and, as I said, especially in an area like that of sport, which has so much impact. And we need, in addition to these sanctions in this sport, usually in adults, to base education on basic sport, on boys and girls; it's essential, it's never going to stay trained, never. And, therefore, what we intend to deepen is the need to move to real and applied work not a law that is kept and that is applied in a purely sanctioning way, but to really develop educational and educational policies that use sport to transmit education into values, which we believe is possible, and that through sport is more than proven that it is very possible. So we want to differentiate those two behaviors applied primarily according to age, which is where we can work. So to be able to do that, we need people who are in the sports field to be able to do it and, therefore, we have to consider the need to expand training. The formation of technicians, the formation of players does not now include as a reality the teaching on equality, on tolerance, on aspects that we often sit down in our society, and we sit down to teach them another. And yes, of course, the family must be a fundamental place for that teaching. The people's home must be, as it should be the school, but we don't have to do it through sport, which, as we pointed out, is one of the most important elements of socialization of our boys and girls. Therefore, training is that way of improvement. And finally, let's think, yes, that to some extent there is the possibility of incorporating some resources. We did not propose anything enormous or disproportionate, but we do contribute to the fact that federations, clubs -- that ultimately are the ones that articulate 99% of sports activity -- the municipalities and federations are able to organize and promote all these values, but that they have some support for resources to do so, because they are probably the organisms that make the most of them with less resources. So let us consider this possibility in simple issues such as the incorporation of values and the knowledge of the work that is done to educate through the aids proposed for clubs, for federations, and which therefore include these concepts. We believe these elements are important and are proactive and therefore we are convinced that we are all going to propose and make contributions in the positive sense of the matter. As I am convinced - and already in the previous interpellation the counselor thus showed - that the intention goes along the same path, I hope that we will be able to reach the same end as we all share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u100	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u101	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Parliamentary Group of En Marea seems to us right about this motion brought by the Socialist Party of Galicia and we would like to vote favourably, but we also provide an amendment of addition which we find very necessary to move forward in the struggle for equality and against violence against the Machos. Sport in society is one of the social, dynamizing and transforming tools. The transmission of values such as agreement, coexistence or respect is the fundamental basis of a society with a future of progress, so that we can achieve an equal and equitable society for all. We also use sport as a communication vehicle, as a social mobilization tool that brings together communities for certain campaigns and as a powerful means of raising awareness about key messages in tournaments or sports events. And that's why we must be especially careful with the messages that are transmitted from the sports world. Today we are brought here about violence, violence in the sport that we see every day, but we want, with our amendment, to talk about violence that is not so visible, that we remember when another woman is murdered, or 8M week, but of which every year they forget in budgets. And we all know that without resources, equality policies cannot be developed. All the data show us that, with the reduction of budgets on equal terms, cases of women suffering from the consequences of male violence increase. And this is not an issue of politicizing the struggle for equality, as Mr. Feijóo says, that is to put upon the table the main ejacuum with which we find ourselves to fight for equality: lack of investment. And that responds to political decisions; they are decisions that did not seek consensus in the struggle for equality among all groups; it was a political decision that unilaterally made by the People's Party. In our amendment to add to this motion we proposed to create a specific section, a team specialized in the fight against macho violence, because we believe that this is a question that must be specifically referred to. Not recognizing women's professionalism in sports is violence. The lack of equal opportunities for men and women in the field of sport is violence. The invisibility of women's sports leagues is violence. That so few budgets for the dynamization of women's sport to correct discrimination against men are intended is also another form of violence. Gender discrimination is also violence in sports. It can't be that a woman or a child in our country is going to train with risk or fear of abuse. It can't be that a trans person can't identify with his gender in a sport competition, or that he can't use the service according to his gender. It can't be that a gay person has to endure homophobic insults during the development of a sports competition. In addition to the measures that we can take since the Council of Galicia, we think that the road also passes because both the municipalities and clubs and federations have resources to promote harmony, coexistence and equality, because commitment is shown with budgets and not with declarations of good intentions. You can invest in each neighborhood and each village having an artificial grass football field or in training and prevention of violence in sport; you can invest more in making sports ports for yachts every 10 kilometers on the Greek coast or in preventing and fighting against male violence in sport. It's a matter of priority. The Government decides which priorities and which issues are less relevant and, for the moment, the yachts are paying more attention than equality and the fight against maleistic violence in sport. Because, even if Mr. Feijóo says that one should not politicize the struggle for equality, the reality is that the struggle for equality is at stake in the politician, of course. I hope there was a consensus and commitment from all groups, which we would not have to compare proposals, but there are different political proposals to fight against inequality and macho violence. The PPs are those of low budgets, the reduction in prevention, throwing the ball at society and focusing on the legal strategy, without the necessary means, and the cuts. And those of En Marea are, as we proposed in the budgets for this exercise, very significantly increasing investment in equality policies; we proposed to triple investment in equality, among other things a reform based on social justice. Equality policies at En Marea propose to work from the educational system, co-education on equality. We also propose to look after the perspective of gender in the media, which is fundamental to the generation of opinion. We propose to provide vital alternatives for victims of violence or, as in the case of what we are talking about today, to work decisively to end discrimination on the issue of gender in the world of sport. And for all this we need, in addition to speeches, enough budgets. The Galician Union is still far from showing in its budgets a firm commitment to equality and to violence against machos. They demonstrate with facts commitment, and not with words and institutional declarations, they invest in fighting for equality, against macho violence, and not in tax advantages for large estates and large companies. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u102	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u103	Good afternoon, very late. It seems we have to be agile, because today there is a great sporting event and we have to fulfill the times, so let's go to matter. We are going to support this proposal with some repairs, not so much by the content of the initiative, but by the reality that we have to deal with and by the responsibilities that governments have, both the state and the German in this matter, that they fail to fulfil. In fact, we have a legal framework, both at the state level and at the German level, a law against violence, racism and xenophobia in sport and a state commission working on these issues, a Greek sport law as well, which provided for the creation of a Galician Commission for Control of Violence, of which we know nothing, because that commission precisely aimed at preventing and suppressing violence and also at analysing its causes, which is one of the objectives of this initiative. So that commission, which had to be created by decree, has not yet been created, and since 2012, which has passed the law, goes there almost five years; then, I don't know if they intend to create it now, but it would be time to do it. And also the Greek law can say that it has been amputated, precisely on the issues that have to do with this matter, by the imposition of an appeal by the Government of the State, which has put down much of the content of Title IX, which makes precisely reference to this issue, and has done so because it has neither Galicia nor the Autonomic Police; it requires the development of this chapter to which Galicia has competence in this matter, to have an Autonomic Police, which is another reason to claim this police itself. What we see in this initiative or in the debate about this initiative and policies in general and in the fight against violence is a limited view of this issue. We think that both laws and commissions are too focused on analysis and fight against violence in professional sport, and specifically on the case of football, with all the complexity and paradoxes surrounding professional sport and football, because, in the end, football and professional sport are a reflection of a society, capitalist society, this predatory capitalism which is based precisely on the exaltation of values, which are also present in football, contrary to coexistence, contrary to that, contrary to equality, contrary to justice. Economic success, business, extreme competitiveness, confrontation, and it's also a privileged space for all kinds of discrimination, essentially sexist and macho. And at the same time, professional sport is a channel for channeling certain social conflicts, tensions and frustrations that are present in society and that even a certain limit can somehow be channelled and directed through those sports expressions. Faced with this vision focused on professional sport and essentially on football, we share that we must give more importance and attention to prevention both in professional sport and also in basic sport, in sports schools, in the educational system, also through the media, and make an effort to promote positive values, through physical activity and sport, values of coexistence, values of cooperation, values of respect, equity and non-discrimination. So, too, in this sense, not only deal with group violence, both physical and verbal, but also with other forms of manifestation, of symbolic violence, which has also been referred to here, but also to make an effort to prevent much greater, of course, the prevention of racism and xenophobia, and to pay particular attention – – we also share this reflection – to the struggle against all types of sexist and macho discrimination in sport, which have to do with the difficulty of women's access to all areas of sports activity and also the discrimination they suffer in this regard. And in this sense, it seems to us that we have to be absolutely exemplarizing in pursuing and sanctioning negative models of macho violence exercised by professional sportsmen, professional footballers in particular, and also the apologetics of these behaviors by affection. And we see how, on the other hand, if you do a lot of fine-tuned and if you make a lot of effort to use the laws and also the committees to pursue the expression of uncomfortable political ideas in stadiums, for example, when there is something as normal in a democratic society as a pituitary, for example, to the anthem of the state or monarchy – – that should not be pursued by any kind of committee or is any manifestation of violence of course – or the ban on nationalist flags in the stadiums. So we ask those with government responsibilities to use their efforts, energies, really to fight all forms of violence and discrimination and to leave our flag alone, to let it sink in the stadiums, which does no harm to anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u104	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Murillo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u105	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Bará, the most important game of the week was that of Pontevedra in Villaviciosa – – we win – and you have to know why it's from Pontevedra and it's not Real Madrid, Real Madrid, that capitalist football you're talking about, and you don't remember the team of your city, who won last week. Mr. Bará, remember it's the best game of the day. [[Applause]] Who talks to them spends many weekends in football fields; therefore, I can actually hear that scream between the affection, those bad words, directed to the referees and in some cases even to the players. But I don't want to let a few words pass that you also know: "sergely," "murders," " homophobic waste." These are some of the words used by political women of the opposition parties to qualify our teammates and, in some cases, even men in general. That's how some promote tolerance and equality. Agremous verbs that distille hatred and can qualify as verbal violence. But we can't stop at this, because it's ugly to talk about violence in politics. But, ladies and gentlemen, who are we going to set an example to? We then speak of sport, not forgetting to remind Mrs. Santos that she should apologize for what she said about our comrades; they are not murderers. [[Applause]] So let's talk about sport and violence in sports. Working to achieve the best situation for the Greek sport will be one of the main objectives of this parliamentary group throughout our legislation. Doing so in the greatest possible harmony with opposition groups will be our intention. Mr. Torrado's tone goes on that line, as he couldn't be otherwise; we must think he's talking about sport. And what does sport involve and what values does sport preach? Sport is passion, teamwork, companionship, effort, dedication, sacrifice, responsibility and, like not!, illusion. Illusion is how we feel when, as Mr. Torrado said in our appeal to the Government, we are walking towards an improvement in sport: improvement in the facilities, training, results and education of all the agents surrounding the sport of Greece. There are many competitions every week in Galicia and very few conducts reported as violent. It is true that it is part of our work to make every day less and that it would be perfect that we could be an example as a community in sports. But, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to stop passing the opportunity to say that we can't criminalize the sport of Greek. Violence is established in society as a whole, it's not particularly noteworthy its impact on sport. The values of sport promote the opposite. For this reason, and having in our hands the possibilities to educate in values – – because we have the channel, we have the players, we have the sportsmen, we have the clubs, which are going to be the picture and the model to follow – –, let's really do it, without doing demagogy, without doing politics, just doing sports. We agree with your initiative, Mr. Torrado, because it is desirable to do studies that focus on the violent behaviors that are recorded in our community. It is good to meet to draw conclusions and provide ideas, to be close to federations, clubs, sportsmen, to collaborate with them to improve the training of agents who participate in the sport and to reward those who contribute to promoting the culture of tolerance and equality. I take advantage of my statement to tell you that the Galician Commission for the Control of Violence — which Mr Bará and he also mentioned — is in fact included in Title IX of the Greek Sport Law, but, as you know, it is at the expense of us being transferred to public security so that we can actually carry it out. Right now it is the State Antiviolence Commission that has the powers. As long as they don't come from our community and we have an Autonomic Police with these powers, we won't be able to create this commission. The other current channels to identify and punish violent conduct in Galician sports show their effectiveness. We have regulations and sanctions in the clubs, federations, referees and the Galego Committee on Sport Justice; in the administrative sanctioning field, the Committee on Sport Justice; and, finally, in the judicial-criminal field, everything that can be classified as criminal offences or any other kind of crime because, indeed, it will be punished in this manner. For all this, and sharing your bet for educating values and promoting all the good of sport with training and education, detecting problems and encouraging new ideas that help eliminate violence more effectively, let's work together to do it better. With regard to the amendment tabled by En Marea, this group will vote against, if it is accepted by the Socialist Party, logically, and we cannot vote for points, because the promotion of tolerance and equality are already contained in the points of the Socialist Party's motion and through coherence with it. The first will be to do a study and analysis of the conducts that are being done in the Welsh sport in general and which are the ones we have to repudiate and then take measures that will improve what is being done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Murillo. Replica, group author of the motion, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Sport conditions, teaches and marks trends. So much so that you're talking about male sports, my weekend result was that the Cortegada Sports Group won Lima Horta — we also won him well — and I'm angry because the coach on the other team was my friend. But high-level female basketball, more level than the clubs they mentioned; but, well, we're not going into that debate. I hope the Pontevedra ascends, which also drags and can climb ours as well. [[Applause]] The truth is, I thought we were going to have a little less lively debate, but today we're talking about Ikea, Mrs. Murillo, you came here and, instead of buying the Ikea catalogue of offers, you picked up a little bit like that and you better stay with the Ikea dolls, because you put here a number of things that weren't so much like that. There's legislation, and there's Welsh legislation, and it works, it can work. Another thing is that there is no competence in security matters, which is another debate. There's legislation. Even the damn Government of Zapatero—I must recognize one thing: even in the presence of the counsellor, twice the other day, and you have not mentioned the Bipartite today, and I want to thank him sincerely, because, calmly not, because they can speak again, unless the president lets you, that, as he is president, is being very often tied up with the popular bench, because he too lets you speak of the Bipartite, and I want to thank him, because the tone of the conversation is grateful; if anyone wants to mention the Bipartite, we are in time—he created the Law of 2007, with two decrees that developed the state commissions, but the law you quote, of course, with title IX, the Law of Sport, also has some competition, as I said, the Galicia Committee on the Study of Violence, which has not even even its members, and therefore it is possible to move forward in that direction. [[Explained words not perceived]] In any case, about the amendment, I think it is necessary to adjust it, because we cannot incorporate it into any plan, because the proposal is not a document itself, but I think it is possible to adjust and add at the end a reformulation, which, if En Marea's fellow voicer on this subject has the benefit, can be included as a perspective a proposal that includes, of course, the perspective that is mentioned and which specifically speaks of a question of addressing specifically issues of macho violence and sexual identity, even those people who form that commission of experts and studies that we guarantee or that they can guarantee that they have that perspective, that they can understand that reality as clearly as possible, so that they can incorporate it into that study. I believe that studying, having that perspective, can always be and could — I believe — combine all perspectives. First we're going to analyze, but then we're going to consider that reality exists, and I think that's possible, and we can trade around. I only say that it is possible — I believe that we have a large part of points in common — to approve this as a whole of all groups, despite the differences of equipment and issues sometimes more timely than any specific facts, especially because there will be parents or mothers who will see us at home, who will have small children, who in the future even want to pose the possibility of doing sports, and we have to give them the assurances, which I believe is done to a great extent, but give them the complete assurance that we are working to teach them through sport as well as to educate them in the necessary values; to those mothers who may be seeing us and who have 3-year-olds now, because then they say: I think they are doing things for them, through sport, also our boys and girls have a better education. And in that sense, I believe and I have the conviction that we are going to reach an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u108	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. So we incorporate a new point with the transaction they're going to propose. Okay, right. We continue with the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the development of the local Covenant
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u109	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group today brings here to plenary today the motion arising from the interpellation presented in the previous plenary session on the development of the local Covenant, the local Covenant which, as I have already stated in the interpellation to the Counsellor, was signed in 2006 and which, eleven years later, continues without being fully developed and without a programme for its total development. As I have already stated in my previous speech, the Socialists believe that the Local Covenant has three matters of vital importance and that they must be taken as a whole in order to move forward and reach new agreements that allow the municipalities to adapt to the needs of the neighbours and neighbours in the 21st century; three fundamental points such as: to set by law the participation of local entities in the incomes of the Autonomous Community, to assume the maintenance costs of health centres that are still in charge of the municipalities and to assume the maintenance costs of primary education centres that still support the Greek municipalities. In the speech of the counsellor at the previous plenary session we were shown that during the eight years of the People's Party's government, the Government of Mr Feijóo, and being the vice-president and councillor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice, if he had made much progress in the development of the so-called Local Covenant. In addition, we were told that in three years the Socialist Government had done nothing, only to sign the local Covenant with the president of Fegamp, and that the Local Cooperation Fund today is the same as eight years ago. Today you are not the Counselor, but you can certainly transfer my doubt to him. I think the counselor didn't have the data in his hand at the time and therefore was wrong. Because they look at: the final participation of the Local Cooperation Fund in 2005 was EUR 80,440,512; in 2006 it grew by more than 14 million; in 2007 it grew by more than 15 million; and in 2008 it grew by almost 10 million. So, from 2005 to 2008, in three years, growth is €39,247,322, i.e. 49% of growth, almost 50% more than it had assigned to the PP Board in 2005. If we take into account the initial amount and we go back to 2001, in just seven years it increased by 266%, and if we see the provisional counties of 2016, we see that this count goes down by almost 7 million euros compared to the deposit in 2008. So I would ask the Counsellor, but I also ask him at the People's Party bench: with the data in your hand, can you continue to claim that you have shielded the County of the Local Cooperation Fund so that the Town Councils don't notice this downside? Can it be ratified at the time of the inquiry made by this parliamentary group? [[Applause]] Look, I want to know who's lying and I want to know who's hurting politics. I think in this case it's you, every time you come here and try to give a turn to the things that are proposed and don't bring any data to assert the accusations that are made here in some cases. I tell you more: this year, in the budgets of the Galician Union, which grew by 2.5 % and according to you the economy is growing at a good rate, why does not this increase reflect the budget allocation for this year for the municipalities? because the main fund is still the same, EUR 112,972,806; i.e., the Greek municipalities as a whole continue to receive nearly 7 million less than they received in 2008. But I'm telling you more: there's one part, which is the additional fund, an additional fund that's just under 2.5 million euros, but these 2.5 you dedicate to these voluntary mergers of municipalities; that is, you draw at the bottom of all the municipalities 2.5 just for four municipalities. It is true that it was a star measure, which was presented to us, that I was not here in this House, but to all the Members and Members who were at that time, it was the star measure, with it they finished all the problems of the local authorities in Greece and would also suppose a huge saving simply to merge. Well it shouldn't be exactly like that, because the achievement of these mergers is that where you rule and have budget what you do is an indecent injection of money, to the detriment of the income of the rest of the Greek municipalities. The truth is that I, who are quite municipalist, would encourage all the municipalities: come, merge!, everyone, wing, wing!, without tone and sound, Daddy Together arrives and they will be filled with money, because what doesn't merge will have much less. So I think the other day the counselor was wrong and his data wasn't quite right. I know a mistake has any, but the data is what they have, what they're there, and sometimes it's not the data we want, but what there is. The counsellor insisted that we in three years had done nothing, but look, in three years, we left everything ready to assume basically three points. We increased the Local Cooperation Fund in almost EUR 40 million and had agreed with Fegamp to assume the maintenance costs of health centres and the maintenance costs of primary education centres. But — I insist — eight years after these three years that we have done nothing, you will once again govern the Union and the Local Cooperation Fund, almost EUR 7 million, and the maintenance costs of health centres and the maintenance costs of primary education centres are largely borne by the municipalities. By the way, why don't we get the data? Tell us how many health centers have been taken up to this day and how many primary education centers have taken up to this day. We want to know. They show that transparency of what they're talking about, what they suspect, but which they never apply after. The questions are clear and concise: how many? Answer me, please: how many? You know that the financial situation in our municipalities is very complicated, you know that sometimes there are extreme situations and you know that you have no room for manoeuvre in order to meet the demands of your citizenship and that, in addition, often they cannot even properly meet the own competences that they have assigned, and therefore they have even more difficulty in meeting the obligations or competences that they are given that they are different administrations. Socialists do not want citizenship of the first and second citizenship, according to the municipality in which we live. We are firmly betting on municipalism and all this data that I just made them this way proves it. However, I am confident that this motion will be adopted unanimously by all Members and Members of this House, including those of the People's Party, mainly after the words of the other day of the Counsellor and the agreements which I believe are coming to with the Fegamp. I've already said that most of us here have had or have some municipal responsibility even today. We know that the second decentralization has not occurred. We know that the local farm law has to be changed. We know that the municipalities have to assume, with few, very few resources, their own competences and impropriety, because they are due to their neighborhood. But in this motion we simply ask that the Union take on its competences in education and health and therefore assume maintenance costs, so our request in this motion is that the Galician Commission for Local Cooperation be called, as Fegamp repeatedly requests, and that for four years it has not been established, and that in the first half of 2017 they present a development plan, with dates of execution, to assume once and for all the maintenance costs of health centres and the maintenance costs of primary education centres. I believe that you also support this — at least that is what they say — and I hope this motion will be approved unanimously. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u112	We are going to support this initiative, although we will also do it in a critical way, with a critical one, because, indeed, ten years ago, the local Covenant, which was the result of good intentions, has been signed to improve the situation of the municipalities, but really the balance in these years is modest; there are many breaches in the deadlines and agreements established there. And I think there are shared responsibilities, more of course by the People's Party, because it's been ruling longer over these ten years, most of the time, and because, in addition, it was also responsible for many legislative changes that modified the rules of play and seriously damaged the ability of the municipalities to act to respond to the needs of the population. And I refer primarily to the change in the model of self-financing. First of all, in 2009, it damaged the municipalities. Also, of course, the amendment to Article 135 of the Constitution, which is a recurring issue that emerges here, but the reality is that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have agreed to make this amendment explicitly, which has had many negative consequences, including the imposition of certain conditions on the municipalities, for example, of budgetary stability and control of the public deficit and also of prioritising the payment of the debt with the surpluses — let's say — with the surplus of municipal management. And also later, in this case, responsibility of the People's Party, the Law on the Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration in 2013, which also imposes a very iron and rigid framework on public spending, indebtedness and recruitment of staff, thus strangling in some way the ability of the councils to act in all these areas, thus changing the competences of the Local Administration and arriving at a current situation of confusion and mixing of competences that are shared between different administrations. Indeed, the Galician Local Cooperation Commission has been created, but the results can be said to be poor, that there are many questions pending in the field of competences and above all in the field of funding. Eight years ago, a working group was created on local finance, which gave no fruit. And it's also unsolved yet the question of the maintenance costs of the educational centres for children and primary education and also of the health centers. And it has also been created, for example, a technical commission for the study of the water cycle and a local water pact has been announced, which has not yet reached any practical results. Not to mention the Local Cooperation Fund, which still has a lot of outstanding demands from the municipalities that are failing to meet. We therefore believe that this debate must be framed on an issue which is absolutely key to action in the field of local administration, which is funding. We have to end this local financing model, which is very discriminatory and unfair for the Greek municipalities. Recently, Fegamp conducted a study based on the results regarding participation in state income between 2004 and 2015 — that is, over eleven years — which reveals a negative result for Galicia of 1,400 million euros, 1,400 million euros less than the Greek municipalities over ten years, which is very serious. The current model pushes population, benefits the municipalities of more than 500,000 inhabitants. And there are absolutely bloody cases, like, for example, the comparison between the incomes of the Zaragoza Town Hall, which is 12.6 million more than the seven main Greek municipalities together, which have 324.00 inhabitants more than Zaragoza. Therefore, this situation is absolutely insatiable, it must be brought to an end; there must of course be a covenant to end it. That is the main local pact we have to address, which we have to adopt, which we have to push: to end this injustice, with this discrimination for the Greek municipalities. Therefore, to adopt new financing criteria based on population dispersion, territorial extension and also taking into account the ageing population of Galicia. And so we have to solve those pending issues, which are still many, of the local Covenant signed in 2006, but we have to move forward in the negotiation and momentum of a new local Covenant that responds to these challenges, to those demands and to those needs that our municipalities have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u113	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, let's talk about five minutes of unemployment tomorrow, where we ask for half an hour for female unemployment, and today we're talking about stopping to see a football game. We believe that the priority of parliamentary activity cannot be subordinated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u115	No, but there's confusion, that I didn't talk about stopping, eh!, at no time, eh! I'm sorry, but I didn't talk about stopping. Under no circumstances. The order of the day is maintained.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u116	So, there'll be no problem in making half an hour of unemployment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u117	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u118	All right. No, if you can only talk about what you say here. [[Murmurs.]] The PP is committed to dismantling not only democracy but the country as a whole, at all levels, also at the municipal level. That's why they drew forward to the Montoro Law, Law 27/2013, which wanted to distort the configuration of local autonomy until the grotesque, imposing a completely recentralizing ideological model of the powers and capacity within the area of local autonomy, also reducing their competences and obliging a number of disciplines of a financial character that did not have to take over the councils, because they were not guilty of the situation they were intended to be charged with, which is destructive of the provision of services of an essential nature that had assigned our country's councils in relation to the whole population, some of them of a basic character, and, thirdly, denying the political and ideological diversity that exists in each of the municipalities, in which not all governs, fortunately, the People's Party. This has prevented, by means of this law, from properly organizing the provision of services in the public domain by means of legal forms of a public nature against its stubborn reading of privatizing everything that has to do with the provision of services, in order to be able to do business, thus imposing a neoliberal and privatization model in the management of public services. And all this despite the fact that this same week we know that the Board of Auditors said that the privatization of Sergas maintenance services did not entail significant savings and also suffered a significant deterioration in the quality of the service. So a system that, led to the municipal sphere, also brought this disastrous character in the management of the public service. And that we see that institutions of an independent nature — at least as long as they do not do the same as the Galician Advisory Council — continue to say, therefore — which is not the Marea — that the privatization of public services and the deprivation of the public sphere of public service management is not being effective in meeting the constitutional objectives laid down in this case also for the municipalities. In order for the territory, also linked to the municipal domain, its inability to think of the country's key led us to propose legal-administrative nonsense, as was the case with the merger of Cotobade and Cerdedo, a technical-political shame which does not resist the slightest criticism. First, from a geographical and socio-economic point of view, because they belong to different comarcas and lead to the violation even of the annexes provided for in Law 6/1997, of Galicia's comarcal development, without any specific forecast on whether the Galician Comarcas Law would be modified to adapt to the merger, or whether, on the contrary, this decision would subsequently be rectified, which would only lead to the creation of a smoking curtain before anything that would bring in the debate on the state of the nation. But from the point of view of the judicial organization, they also had the occurrence of doing this merger even though they were in different legal parties, without being foreseen in the memory of the merger, nor a modification of the judicial demarcation plant. Suppose this will lead them to ask for the reinforcement of the Pontevedra judges or the Road judges. There is also no provision for redistribution of social services at the comarcal level to articulate the territory. And, of course, we have nothing at hand or in view of the new local financing model for Galicia, which takes into account — as has been said now in this forum — criteria that allow us to have better funding to meet the legal needs and requirements that we have assumed by law and in the framework of the statute. Well, that's why we'll support it. It seems to us an insufficient framework, but we feel it is necessary to support the motion for compliance with the 2006 local Covenant. It requires the full development of the local framework, specifically in relation to funding. But in the face of the asphyxiation to which the councils have submitted themselves for the provision of the purposes which have been established constitutionally and statutoryly both in relation to the maintenance of health centres and primary education centres, we understand that it is essential in addition, because the councils perform a fundamental function of providing public services, many of them of a fundamental nature, the exercise of the functions of social justice, of redistribution of income and wealth, of social policies, that during these years of crisis they have been denied to citizenship, and that they have had to access to many municipalities in our country the tides and governments of change in order to be able to provide fundamental social services, the realization of fundamental rights that was denying both the Autonomous Community and the state as a whole. And they made them from 2015, despite the absence of material means and even personal impossibility to which they were subjected under Law 27/2013. That is why we will support this local pact, this development of the pact through all measures, particularly those relating to financing. And we consider, however, that it is insufficient, because there is a social reality that is needed today from the councils, because the administrations that have the competences assigned from the national framework do not do so properly, in order to once again crush the rights of the social majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u119	Thank you, Mr. Villares. It should be clarified that the agenda forecasts are maintained as I told all spokespersons yesterday. So I want to make this clear; the joke is the joke, but the serious thing is. It's keeping the order of the day. Mrs Prado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliamentary Group are still waiting for Mrs Santos' apologies for the slanders against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u121	That's the point, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u122	...companies of our party on social networks call them women's killers. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, you missed a great opportunity to apologize on behalf of your group. I suppose his silence will not be accompanied by an accomplice's support for his companion's words in the unfortunate tweet this weekend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u123	The question, Mrs. Prado, the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u124	Yes, Mr. President. Today we are debating a motion as a result of an interpellation in connection with a series of questions that have been asked to the Councillor of the Presidency in connection with the Local Covenant signed, as Mrs Martínez said in 2006 — 10 years ago, Mrs Martínez — a pact which has brought about a closer... I am sorry, Mrs Rodríguez, for the positions of both the municipal and the autonomic fields. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then there were two parties ruling the different institutions. At the summit in Galicia he was ruling the Socialist Party, and you claimed the paternity of the signing of the Covenant last full for Mr. Tourin, and also recognized that at the Fegamp he was a popular president, who was the mayor of Lalin, Mr. Crespo. I'm not going to claim paternity for either of you, but I'm going to put in value that there was a consensus to put the funding of services important and fundamental to the Greek municipalities on the table. But what is true is that what the Socialist Party did, or in this case the Bipartite—we speak of the Bipartite! because someone missed the Bipartite—it was at that time to materialize a signature. But, Mrs. Rodríguez, the Covenant has been working on it for years, because, of course, as you can imagine, for in the months that you have been in the Government, it hasn't been done and the whole Covenant hasn't materialized. In fact, during the two-party government, they have done virtually nothing, because the Covenant must not only be signed, Mrs. Rodríguez: the Covenant must be budgeted and the Covenant must be put in place. And in all the matters that you are asking for now because in those three years of government bipartisan has done absolutely nothing, either in health centres or in educational centers. In fact, the People's Party at that time called upon the Bipartisan Government to comply with the local Covenant. And in 2009, when the People's Party joined Galicia, it failed to comply with 85 percent of the local Covenant. And you know what I'm talking about, because you were responsible for that matter. And if at the moment of greater economic kindness in Galicia you have done absolutely nothing, now you come to tell the People's Party that in the middle of a crisis period you have done more than you have done. And we did more, Mrs. Rodríguez, because, look, you referred to the Local Cooperation Fund — 80 million you said —. I have raised 80 million plus the 39 that have been increasing since 2005, because 80 plus 39 is 119. Do you know what the budget for this year of the Local Cooperation Fund is? 119.8. Oh, you could say, of course, but they didn't come up. But you know how the Fund is calculated, and the Fund is calculated on the basis of a percentage of the board's budget. And, as you well know, in these years, the board budget has reduced its income. And if we were to follow the guidelines to put the Fund in, today I had to have 25 million euros less. And the Board not only suffocated the municipalities but guaranteed these 119 million euros, and this year the Fund rises above the rest of the board budget. Therefore, I believe that commitment is fundamental. But there are also more new sources of funding — and you know — such as the Environmental Compensation Fund, with EUR 77 million more, to co-finance environmental projects, with the electrical use of wind energy. And it's advanced in a lot of things -- I don't have much time -- but, as you know, in the supra-municipal emergency group, in peace justice and taking on health care management. You were asking how many, so 110, Mrs. Rodríguez. And there are 6.85 million euros each year in educational institutions to maintain the heating or cleaning of schools. Look, if we make it easier to vote on points, we would be willing to support the first point of your proposal and call on the Galician Local Cooperation Commission to study the development of the local Covenant. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. As for the representative of the BNG, when he says a critical yes for failure to comply with the deadlines, we fully agree, but we are not guilty. That's why we have an interpellation and now a motion. We, despite what the People's Party keeps, in six months, signed the local Covenant. And it's true that you came to work, but it's just that, look, sometimes it's a bit boring, but if you want to read the story again: since 1993, papers, creation, commission, transfer, laws, reforms, I don't know that, but really nothing, nothing, nothing. And in 2001, what they had allocated to the Local Cooperation Fund was €32,652,890, and we, the Bipartite, in three years, grew almost 40 million. So you can't say that there was no money, that there was no budgetary provision. Here it is. No, no, but it's not the same now. [[Applause]] I don't know very well how you do your bills. But the provisional count of 2016 is 112,972,805 of the main fund. Yes, Mrs. Paula Prado; yes, ma'am. And what I mean is it's 7 million euros less than in 2008. Home!, for this is data that passes us to Fegamp; therefore, Fegamp must also have the wrong data. I think I disagree. Anyway, it's true that you tell me you can't give us... No, it's not in the Budget Law. That's the count that's in the Budget Law. So, I repeat, I keep saying... yes, but there are two and a half million that you don't devote to the Local Cooperation Fund. No, no, no, no, you devote that fund to those voluntary mergers of these four municipalities. In the case of En Marea, who told us that it is an insufficient agreement, we also fully agree that it is insufficient, but we insist that it is definitely necessary to assume these competences in order to continue agreements for citizenship and for the municipalities of 2017. The truth is, you never want any deal. Tell me about paternity. Look, I don't care if it's paternity, maternity or the whole thing, it gives me exactly the same thing. I only know that reality, the facts are that for twenty years you do what you do, i.e., you do nothing, you wash your face, you approve agreements, and in paper it's all very well, but it's not materialized in reality. And we, in six months, took, signed — and we don't care if you're a president of the People's Party's Fegamp, give you exactly the same, because if we have another way of governing — we bring money to the Local Cooperation Fund, to all the municipalities, to all the Greek municipalities. [[Applause]] Ask yours too, ask them, I'm sure they answer exactly the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u128	Then he told me that they've increased the Wind Compensation Fund and something else that doesn't agree with him. It's pretty curious you don't remember, it's just that there's no. Because in every match—yes.—the only thing they do is to put grants into non-competitive competition, so they get theirs first and take the subsidies, or delete them... yes, yes, yes, or make nominative agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u129	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u130	...so, bring data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u132	...tracing data, collecting data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u134	I had the hope that they would actually approve this motion, because nothing more and nothing less is required than what is demanded of Fegamp and the advisor, and that the president himself of the board has committed to approve. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. We proceed to vote on the motions. First, we begin with the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Torrido Quintela. There was an amendment from the Tide Parliamentary Group and a transaction took place incorporating a new point. If you want to read us that transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u136	Yes, Mr. President. The transaction includes more than the six points of the motion one seventh, which says: "Promoting in institutions that the various agents participating in the sport show special attention to possible violence caused by racism, machismo and/or attacks on people's sexual identity."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u137	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. We therefore vote this motion with the amendment that has just been incorporated. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia to address the problems related to violence in sport. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u138	We voted on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo. The honourable Member of the People's Parliamentary Group has asked for a point of order. Don't you accept it? So we vote as the motion is drafted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the development of the local Covenant. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u139	Before moving to the fourth point of the agenda, communicate a change in the development of the plenary tomorrow, which is that the question to the Government that appears first will be substanceed after the questions to the president. We are now debating non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the establishment of a framework of labour relations and collective bargaining
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u140	We started with the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Ms. Montserrat Prado Cores. This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u141	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u142	Good afternoon to all and to all. Friday is March 10th, and it's the day we celebrate the Galaga Work Class Day. The March 10 commemoration is a reference date for the struggle of the Welsh working class, which in 1972 gave an example of struggle, especially in Ferrol and Vigo, against dictatorship and against its labor and repressive policies. On March 10, 1972, two workers, Daniel and Amador, were killed in Ferrol by the fascist police in the framework of the workers' struggles that were developing in Galicia. He struggles to be entitled to negotiate an agreement in Galicia, to improve wages, to reduce the six-day workday per week. A struggle ended with a repression that cost two working lives, dozens of wounded and hundreds of detained people. What Amador and Daniel represent, their struggle, remains vigilant now. Forty-five years later, the Galician working class continued to struggle practically for the same things. The claims for which they were killed remain fully effective, still current forty-five years later. Amateur and Daniel were murdered for defending labor rights, freedoms and fighting for their own agreement. In 1972 there was a dictatorship of the capital executed by a fascist dictatorship, and now there is a dictatorship of the capital executed by a distorted democracy, by a formal democracy. Today we live in another dictatorship: that of the richest, the capitalists, the bank, the big companies, those who cheat 80,000 million euros through subsidiaries, tax havens, and we live in that dictatorship where 100 fortunes in the Spanish state represent 19% of GDP, when eight million pensioners in the Spanish state represent only 12%. And the Greeks and the Greeks need in this framework to decide for ourselves and for ourselves our future; to have sovereignty over what is vital for us to a dignified life; to defend our interests as a nation, in front of a Spanish State and a European Union which, of course, do not count on us beyond making all the spoils of those who are capable and to continue to use us as cheap labor. For that reason, today the BNG is presenting this non-legislative proposal at its closest plenary session on 10 March, which calls for a German framework for labour relations, calls for this Parliament to adopt the resolution to declare its willingness to work towards the achievement of a German framework for labour relations. This initiative has been transferred to us by the Glaga Inter-union Confederation, by the IGC, and what I do on behalf of the Galician Nationalist Block is the literal defense of its resolution because, of course, we consider this Parliament to be important to assume an active role in demanding and assuming the necessary competences for Galician economic and social development, a self-centered economic and social development. Of course, we believe it is important for this Parliament to declare the need for a framework of its own labour relations, which states the desire to defend the need for a Greek framework of labour relations, where sectoral, provincial, autonomous or other higher level agreements have precedence not only over the agreement of undertakings but also over the state agreements. In addition, agreements on specific matters. Structure agreements at Galicia level should prevail over those at the state level of similar characteristics, which reinforce the guarantee of the limited ultraactivity of the collective agreement. Sectoral agreements must have a basic right, so no company agreement can establish conditions that are lower than those specified by the sectoral reference agreements, and must contribute to favouring and making this situation viable. We do so because we are very clear, as I said before, that our future cannot be in the hands of either the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund or the European Commission, but we have to take responsibility for our future and we have to be able to decide on it by the Greeks and the Greeks. And we demand in this non-law proposal that Parliament, as the greatest expression of sovereignty of the people of Greece, make this proclamation to defend the need for a Greek framework of labour relations. Of course, what the BNG wants with this initiative is to overcome a reality in which we take the items we want to take, any comparison of Galicia with the average state, at the level of the labour market, in terms of wages, precariousness, tensions, sinequality, employment, emigration, in each and every of them the relationship is negative to Galicia, and points out the evidence that there are structural factors that need to be changed. We also call on this initiative to ensure that collective bargaining, as an instrument primarily for the service of the working class, has been dynamized through the different labour reforms, because it has once again the weight it must have always had. Collective bargaining is nothing but an agreement between parties, an agreement between employers and workers to avoid, on the one hand, conflict, but also as an instrument to give a certain degree of protection to the weakest part of that labour relationship. And the weakest part of that relationship is the working class. The different labour reforms, as I said, were dynamite, leaving workers and workers, of course, in a situation of tremendous deprotection and weakness. That is why, within the resolution of this initiative, what we demand is that this situation be changed. In short, what made that form of work was to leave the working class unprotected. In fact, what's the defense mechanism that leaves a worker or a worker in the framework of his company in a situation of total loneliness to defend his working rights? Well, really, practically none. We also ask for a framework of labour relations where agreements are negotiated here in Galicia. The agreements must be negotiated here in our country, because we are faced with situations, for example, agreements such as chemicals, where activities such as paints, plastics, rubbers are included, and at the same time, is the auxiliary sector of automotive in Galicia. It doesn't make sense that they're in the same agreement and that it's also a state-wide convention. We can talk about the textile industry agreement, where people who are in the same arrangement are in a small sewing workshop or a company that makes car seats for Citroën. Of course, the needs, the problems have nothing to do with each other, and you need a proper agreement here in Galicia. Or we can talk about the paradigmatic case of the conservation sector. How at this point does it come to mind someone who is a state-wide convention the conservatory agreement, when they are in Galicia 70% or 80% of the workers, basically of the workers are in Galicia, and that it is an agreement that is negotiated in Madrid, where most of the time they know almost where even the sea is, and what is the problem of the conservatory of Galicia? Of course, these are things that we need to make legislative changes, such as those that we are demanding on this initiative, for them to change. And it is necessary to be the agreements negotiated in Galicia, to reverse the changes made to the labour reforms, to modify the situation that ultraactivity is only one year old. If it was workers and workers who denounced the agreements so that they could negotiate new agreements and introduce improvements, it turns out that with this amendment it is now the employers who denounce the agreement themselves. After a year, it turns out you make a counter at zero and you have to start negotiating a new convention where the acquired one has disappeared from the map; you have to start from zero. Of course, we believe in the BNG that this is not the right scenario for the Galician working class. So, with this initiative, what we say is that this Parliament cannot be a transmission belt of what they decide in Madrid or what they decide in Brussels, what we ask and demand with this initiative is that we take responsibility and that Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u144	...whoever makes the decisions. What we're asking is that the German Parliament, the German Government, the workers and the Italian workers have tools to promote a Greek framework that allows decent wages, that allows working relationships that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u146	...are diametrically opposed to those that exist right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u147	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the amending group, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u148	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. This non-law proposal submitted by the BNG I think it is quite appropriate, since this morning we were talking about social policy of wealth, that tomorrow we are going to talk about equality of women, equality of work, too, because I think it is appropriate that we have the opportunity to take stock, in this case precisely of what was the labour reform of the People's Party in this period 2011-2016. And that's why I'm just going to collect three magnitudes of official statistical data — from Eurostat, INE and EPA — to visualize again, because if we don't live in a permanent mirrorism, what is the reality of the labour market and what is the reality of employment after the last five years of labour reform: A first magnitude: hours worked and number of people employed, i.e. job creation. While people in the European Union grew at a magnitude of 3.3 in Spain this magnitude decreased by 2.5. While the hours worked in the European Union grew 2.5, in Spain these hours were reduced 3.4. Spain is, in Eurostat data, the pre- penultimate State of the European Union in job creation, only surpassed by Cyprus and Greece. Second magnitude: variation and distribution of income, i.e. distribution of wealth in Spain. The remuneration of employees in this period has declined to EUR 12,300 million, EUR 2.3 million, while business surpluses have increased to EUR 17,500 million, i.e. an increase of almost 4%, when in the euro area wage growth is always higher than the business surplus. As a result, Spain in the euro area is the fifth country where there is a greater transfer of employees' income to the business surplus. And third magnitude: usual hours worked and people employed, i.e., quality of employment in Spain. In full-time we have a reduction during this period 2011-2016 of 3.6%, while part-time jobs have grown by 14.2%; that is, for every hour of temporary job loss 304 hours of a stable nature have been lost. The increase of people with part-time work and the decrease of those who work full-time generate precisely this mirrorism of recovery from the labour market. More data: about three million Spaniards left the middle class. We measured middle class by the household group whose income is between 75% and 200% of the median income, to enter precisely the lower classes. And four out of ten people live in a situation of poverty, lack of opportunities and very serious social exclusion. Some other data: the gender gap, of which you will intensely talk about tomorrow's interventions, about the participation of women in the labour market, is ten points of difference with man; three out of every four people on a part-time basis are women. They only occupy one out of every four executive or managerial positions. And we refuse to talk about quotas. According to the 2015 data from the Tax Agency, the average annual wage for women was 22% lower than for men, and 36% of employees did not exceed the minimum inter-professional wage. In 2015, 22.48 per cent of the women in Greece were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, compared to 21 per cent of 2014, that is, this indicator continues to grow. Some other important data to frame our position in this non-law proposal is the lowest wage cost, is that Galicia has the lowest wage cost by autonomous communities, only above it has the Castile-A Mancha, Canary Islands and Extremadura. Our monthly salary cost is EUR 1,596.18. We can call this competitiveness and productivity or devaluation. In this sense, and in order to position ourselves and justify our amendment to the proposed group, we understand that a higher framework such as that of the State, a European framework or a supranational framework always presents characteristics of stronger strength and negotiating capacity of workers and social agents. We clearly share that labour law is fundamental state competence from a social perspective and solidarity between all workers and social agents throughout the state. We understand that in the competence of the implementation of the basic state legislation corresponding to Galicia, we can perfectly articulate a framework of working relationships within our autonomous community by developing the potentialities and synergies of our own, but not forgetting the higher normative and conventional frameworks, which can bring more beneficial conditions, resulting from more negotiating capabilities by social agents.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u150	In this sense — yes, Mr President — we must once again claim the employment agreement reached by President Pérez Touriño with employers and trade unions in 2007, which precisely laid the groundwork for collective bargaining in Galicia. That's why the point of our amendment is that, of course, provincial and autonomous sectoral conventions or other higher levels have precedence over business agreements, but limit that point in that sense. That is why we would ask for this, if the proposed group has the right, the differentiated vote on this paragraph. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea Mr. Lago Peñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u152	Good afternoon. It seemed very timely to me the reference by Mrs BNG to 10 March, to the struggle of workers and workers in Ferrol. On March 3rd too, in Victoria, five workers were killed when I was a Minister of the Interior who was the Minister of the Interior. And for those who tell the film that democracy came to Spain for a divine concession, the struggle of workers and workers, the deaths, the killings of Victory or Ferrol prove no, that it was the stubborn effort of the working class that made the dictator die in bed but that the dictatorship had died in the street. And as I am from the same union as Amador Rey and Daniel Niebla, because also from this rostrum, in front of March 10, I want to speak and give their names here, because those are the heroes who built democracy in this country. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm not going to circumvent the subject of BNG or even the part where there's a certain difference. We are in favour of the German framework of labour relations; I believe that the whole of the country's workers are in that process. That framework is a construction process. The Galego Labour Relations Council is a German framework for labour relations, the Economic and Social Council is the collective bargaining that takes place in Galicia, and in fact most of our country's employed workers and workers have their working conditions regulated in a provincial convention negotiated in the four provinces of our country. Now, the German framework will always coexist, or at least as long as it does not change the structure of the state, with a state framework, because state legislation on the labour market, on collective bargaining, is a competition from the state. So there must be a German framework of labour relations, but there will be a state framework. That's where we have to deal with the problems there. The last change — and BNG's proposal is good — in the labour regulations on collective agreements is the work reform of the year 2012. That reform has a devastating effect on wages, because it uses a technique that is to change the prevalence of collective agreements. Before a sectoral collective agreement could not be replaced by a collective company agreement which had lowered wages or increased the day-to-day. The sector agreement marked the minimum and from there whether a company wanted to negotiate in metal or textiles, because it was very large, because it negotiated a company agreement, but always exceeding the sector agreement, because the prevalence was the sector agreement. Fatima Báñez loaded that model. And he's using it, because in the last public contest of the Ministry of Employment he won a company, Surveillance and Security Synergies, who showed up for the contest, and that's why he won it, with the cheapest offer of all. Why? Because the salary of a security guard up to the previous competition was 1,100 euros a month, and Synergias, which has a collective agreement that breaks the provincial agreement, pays them the minimum interprofessional wage, from 1,100 euros to 700 euros. That's what it's for to change the prevalence of conventions. If the company's agreement is above the sector agreement, companies can reduce to the minimum inter-professional wage, and the basic standards of the status of workers, the rights of workers and the accumulated workers. That's why ultraactivity has also been eliminated in years of struggle. And in that sense, I'm going to say: we are in favour of the Greek conventions being prevalent and above the state conventions. We're in favour of that, because it seems to us that this is positive. But in order to perfect the BNG proposal, I think we should say, we should tone it by saying that when the agreements negotiated in Galicia are above the pact in the state agreement. I have no doubt that an agreement signed by the IGC, by workers' committees and UXT will never negotiate under a state agreement, but if I have huge doubts that an agreement, for example, of large commercial areas, where there are yellow unions sponsored by employers, can negotiate a collective agreement under what the state agreement establishes. And, therefore, in use of that sovereignty and that framework of labor relations can be used by the enemies of the working class to further devalue our working conditions, which so well defined the companion of the Socialist Party. We will therefore support the BNG proposal, in addition to because, as you have explained, it is a closed proposal that comes from a union, from the IGC, from one of the most representative trade unions in our country. And in that sense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u154	...it's barely changeable. But we think that this proposal would be further refined if this element were introduced: the German framework for labour relations; the Greek conventions mainly on the state agreement, but whenever the conditions of the state agreement are improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. I suppose Mrs. Santos left her seat because she already realized that no member of her parliamentary group was able to defend what she wrote on her Twitter account last Sunday. Tell Mrs. Santos she's running out of time... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u157	Let's get to the point, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u158	...to apologize for the slanderous insults against members of the Galician People's Party, calling us through the social networks killers of women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u159	Go to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u160	Just unacceptable, just intolerable! And Mrs. Santos, who isn't here, knows. And you know why he's not here? Because he can't keep his eye on us when we go to her. That's why Mrs. Santos isn't here now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u161	Go to it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u162	So we see your attitude and your complicit attitude of Mr. Villares. We're going to have to give the deputy of En Marea the reason...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u163	Mr. Tellado, get on with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u164	...which said that party looked like a lousy pateria. They're still in time to apologize.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u165	Please forgive me. Excuse me a moment, Mr. Tellado. Excuse me a moment, please. Listen. Go to the question, and please ask the rest of the Members to listen to who has the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u166	On the subject, I believe that they are already perfectly portrayed — Mr Sánchez, be quiet — perfectly portrayed. I'm going to the point. Labour reforms continue to be criticized, which have allowed Spain to get out of the economic crisis situation in which the Socialist Party has put us. They continue to criticize, but the fact is that in Spain the economy is growing, and in Spain employment is created, and that is thanks to labour reforms. First that which the Socialist Party approved, which on the initiative of the BNG is criticized. You shut up, Mr. Marea, because now you don't know very well where they are, but it was this reform, that of the Socialist Party and ours, which allowed you to simplify the labour market in our country so that dismissal was the last possible alternative, and we got it. And there's the data that shows that the situation has changed. Mr. Díaz Villoslada, tell us about the Socialist Party as if the crisis had nothing to do with you and your party, and you left three million more unemployed when they left the Government of Spain. So I ask you not to compare the data from Spain and Europe, because while there were countries in Europe, there were governments, who took measures, you told us that we were at the Champions League, and they presented those elections with full employment. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, I'm glad you present this initiative because with it they're revealing a little bit what your opposition strategy is going to be in these four years. In the budget debate they presented the same amendments as in previous years. You take a file for your parliamentary activity, we think it's all right. And the truth is, with this it happens a little bit the same thing. You prove that you don't intend to do anything new by Galicia, they're installed in old positions. This same initiative has already been discussed in this plenary, in this Parliament, exactly a year ago, so I think that you bring initiatives just for us to vote against them. That's the empirical victory they present. And we respect their attitude, their strategy, but we don't share it. We are also pleased that they present this initiative because they will be forced to withdraw from the Socialist Party and the Tides of Podemos. They will be forced to withdraw because we will see if they share their own contradictions, what they do, what they then vote and what they defend. You, showing your ideological minifundism, propose that all collective bargaining be autonomous; a stance that does not defend either the Galician UGT or the Galician Labour Commission. They do not defend it — majority in the whole of Spain, by the way — which we will see the representatives of the PSdEG-PSOE, and the representatives of the workers' committees diluted in the Power Tides, that is the reality. In fact, he drew attention to the need for any collective negotiation to take place in the Greek field, since it is precisely not wanted by the UGT Galician State or the Galician Labour Commission, Mr. Marea. It should be remembered that the two majority unions, UGT and the Labour Commission, signed a collective bargaining agreement two years ago with the CEO of the Tide. This is the Third Agreement on Employment and Collective Negotiation for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. Mr. Lago, you were in Working Committees at the time this agreement was signed, and today you intend to support something that says contrary to that agreement, which was published in the BOE of June 20, 2015, setting the structure of collective bargaining throughout the state, and what most trade union and business want in Spain and Galicia. So today you're going to defend the opposite of what I was defending two years ago. I think it's okay, but he's a father of his own contradictions. We must remind BNG that there are state, autonomous, provincial and corporate agreements, and there are rules for the division of competences in the Staff Regulations of Workers to be observed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u168	However, you can and should enhance the German framework of labour relations, we agree, but we believe it is not exclusive, and therefore we do not share your initiative. We have just registered a non-law proposal that we will debate in the next plenary session, defending that there is a Greek framework of labour relations, but that it is not exclusive, that it is not contradictory, as you intend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u170	...because they believe that Galicia begins and ends. We live in an open world, gentlemen of the BNG, and if what you're trying to do is set borders, it certainly doesn't contain us. If they want to improve collective bargaining, improve the working conditions of Galician workers, if they can count on us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u171	Thank you very much. You have the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u172	He's had a bad time, Mr. Tellado. This initiative was one of the last to be discussed before the dissolution of the legislation. It wasn't a year ago, it was in June, in June. He's had a bad time, actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u173	Don't talk, please. Listen to who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u174	That's right. But look, you won't even think for a moment that because the People's Party votes against having a German framework of labour relations, the BNG will stop claiming the existence of a German framework of labour relations. Come on, it can't go through your head! The BNG will continue to bring here, indeed — every 10 March, if possible — that there is debate in this Parliament that there is one day of the working class in Galicia. Because, Mr. Tellado, I'm not an outlaw, and not at the BNG either. I belong to the working class of Galician, and the working class of Greece celebrates March 10th the day of the working class of Greece; so, without any kind of complex; others follow other things. Of course, at the BNG we didn't make it up to ourselves to be Germans or to represent the working class in Galicia, so it's simple! This initiative, precisely what we demand, is that we take responsibility for it. That here lies the sovereignty of the Greek people, and that sovereignty of the Greek people translates into legislation to defend the interests of the Galician working class and the Greek people. What a strange thing the Galician Parliament wants to have instruments to act in defense of its people! The truth is, it's psychodelic. This block thing is that we're one thing...! Really, we're one thing that doesn't happen to anyone in the head! [[Applause]] The truth is it should be others and others who had to justify themselves. As representatives of the Greek people, they do not want instruments to defend the Greek people. It should be others who had to justify themselves and explain themselves. I cannot accept the amendment of the Socialist Party because, of course, we claim a Greek framework, without being subject to any state framework or any German framework. If there are frames across the top, we have to fight in Galicia for better than elsewhere. But precisely what we demand is that we self-responsibility and that we decide here what rules we want to abide by. So I insist that I regret that this Parliament today says no. It's also a declaration of will as expressed. It's a declaration of willingness to walk towards the achievement of a Greek framework of labor relations for the benefit of the working class of Galician workers. The fact is that it says very little, when they come to vote no, of Parliament, of Members and of Members who feel very comfortable in the role of submission, who feel very comfortable and very comfortable in the role that they decide elsewhere what we should do here, who feel very comfortable in Madrid deciding which way to frame and where, how and how we can do things. Of course, at the BNG we will not give up on bringing here initiatives that make this Parliament ask to be authentically the place where the sovereignty of the Greek people resides...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u175	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u176	...and where action is taken is consonant with that sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. We are now debating the following non-legislative proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the performance that must be carried out by the Government of Galicia in order to analyze and consensualize all aspects of the subscription of the centres of artistic teachings superior to the universities by agreement, as well as to enable their incorporation into the university system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u178	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. As all of your lordships know, when we talk about higher artistic teachings, we are referring to superior conservatories of music, higher schools of dramatic art, schools of conservation and restoration of cultural goods, higher conservatories of dance, higher schools of design and plastic arts, that is, studies of culture, art and heritage conservation, which are vital to our country and, of course, strategic from an economic point of view. All these teachings are implemented in Galicia. All of them, I have to say, with great prestige, but it's also true that all of them are in a critical situation, in a serious situation that has come to denounce teachers, student associations, parent associations, trade unions, political parties and professional associations. Very serious problems that come from far away, that I will try to sum up and have, ladies and gentlemen, a political solution and a problem of political will, nothing more than that. They have an academic solution that depends on political will, which is what I ask this House to have in order to solve the problem of these students and teachers. I'm saying I'm going to sum up very briefly what are the latest events that put these teachings into a very serious problem. The Royal Decree 1614/2009 established the management of higher artistic teachings in Spain, our country, and it was considered that higher artistic teachings should converge with the European Higher Education Area, and for that they gave them the ability to grant the degree degree. But in 2012, after a Supreme Court ruling on appeals and claims from the University of Granada, the possibility that these institutions could give a degree degree degree was eliminated, limiting only to universities, therefore also to faculties, the possibility of giving this title. In the face of this situation — we are in 2012 — LOMCE attempted to give a solution and recovered the old designation of top title: top title in conservation, top title in theatre, etc., and stated in a later decree that higher schools and this top title in dramatic art, in music was equivalent to the degree, was equivalent. Of course, this does not solve the problem at all because of its ambiguity, because this title of equivalent does not exist anywhere, only exists in a decree in Spain, nor is it even recognized — as we shall see later — by institutions in this country. The European countries do not recognize this equivalence, because really what we are is in a legal limbo. In addition to a legal language, this places students and teachers in an order, in a regulation, of secondary education, i.e., just like half-teaching. This means that these students don't have any of the university students' rights: neither college scholarships nor residences, and above all they can't complete the training cycle, and then they can't complete the degree equivalent, a master's degree or a doctor's degree; they can't reach their specialties to pursue this higher education. Teachers can't opt for research aids either. But besides, as I said before, it has a bad fit in Europe. They're leaving these students with a title that doesn't serve in Europe and therefore with multiple problems when they want to increase and expand their studies at European or American universities or music schools or when they want to go to a university in another country. At best, they have to validate the title with everything that comes from paperwork, fees, and, at worst, they're going back to a lot of the degree at the university where they want to go. This legal vacuum, these problems that have been present since 2012 are being exploited by private universities. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because many private universities that see the business are implementing degrees of university degrees — yes, fully university degrees — in titles of artistic teaching: degrees in music, theatre, dance etc. And they're offering these degree degrees, logically, before they pay. For example, at the European University of Madrid or Alfonso X or Sabio University, you can study degrees in Musical Interpretation, that is, for about 13,000 euros. Other universities are offering the validation of the subjects taught in higher schools to opt for a degree they have. And other private schools are applying to foreign universities and degrees. Well, this does not count — because this is absolutely unacceptable — that in the title of Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Goods it is the public universities themselves that have the degree of university in this degree. And all of this is leading to a total devaluation of these higher titles, which are equivalent — but which does not serve equivalence — to the degree. In view of this situation, the Galician Platform for the Integration of Higher Artistic Teachings was created in 2012 in Galicia — it is now a national — which is where they logically first pose the defence of their interests in the face of these serious problems. And secondly, the only solution that we believe to be the most logical, the easiest and the easiest solution to be allowed by all laws — from LOMCE, which in Article 58.7 says that autonomous educational administrations can record the centres of artistic teaching above universities by means of conventions, others such as the Law of the Galician university system or the Organic Law of Universities — is going through an adscription process of these titles and centres to universities — of course, universities are also in agreement — to then go to an integration process or remain in an adscription, as it may be. Of course, one thing must first be taken into account, these titrations across Europe, except in Italy, and also in America are colleges, or they're colleges or colleges. So only Spain and Italy have this regime, which is really from the 19th century. And I'm saying it's from the 19th century because many other higher qualifications have worked hard, but they've also achieved very good performance, went to college and been enrolled without any problem. Fine Arts, the first, which also had trouble entering, but entered with the magnificent results that we know. But there were also conflicting voices, and they were able to get titrations such as Maxisterio, Nursing, Physical Education or Labour Relations to be integrated into the university through membership. Even defence titrations, because it turns out that the Marine Naval School could be enrolled at the University of Vigo. I mean, what's possible for Ministry of Defence titrations, developed by the Ministry of Defence, seems not possible for artistic teachings. Of course, you'll understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this doesn't make any sense. Sooner or later it will come to this solution, because there is no other one, and because, in addition, at this time, the schools of artistic teaching are in a position to do so. They're not asking for privileges, you know, and I want to make it clear. No one's asking for privileges. They have to be adscripted and then integrated, fulfilling all organizational, teacher qualifications and all the rules that mark university laws; all at that time they can be adscripted. So, what we are asking for in this non-law proposal is trying to be — believe me — the request for a consensus that among all of us we will manage a situation that is causing enormous damage to students in our community, to students in Greece, who can be arranged politically, which can be arranged by sitting down — and I mean all those affected: universities, schools and counselling — at a work table to see how this subscription develops and at what date. We don't even give dates, it's a very simple resolution that can unlock the problem and that can turn us into the first community that's going to do what they're gonna do all of them, because Madrid's going to end up doing some kind of organization and legislation like that. For one thing, ladies and gentlemen, there is no other answer to this problem. And, of course, I can't believe that public schools, that public education, don't give them an answer to the problems of these students, that they're giving them to university and private schools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u181	...—Finished. It must therefore be public education and, in this case too, the political will of all of us, which definitely solves this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u182	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Noa Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u183	Good afternoon, everyone. Since the Galego Nationalist Block, we are going to give our support to this non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Party to collect a demand from the student and professor of the higher artistic teachings of our country that we have shared and that we have already defended both in this House and in the Congress of Deputies and in other administrations, such as the Pontevedra Council, with the concert and paradigmatic case, for example, of the School of Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Goods of Galicia. It may be by ideological minifundism — which Mr. Tellado would say — that we have the forces of opposition, or it may be because really this is an absolutely bloody matter that has been dragged for years and that no one, in the educational community or in the forces of opposition, understands why he is not sought for a solution. The Socialist Party's companion made a brief exposition of the details of this issue, so I won't extend too much. At the general level, public centres of higher artistic teaching have long demanded some way to integrate into the public university system — public, and I want to point out — Greek, so that their student can have a degree recognised as being equal to existing qualifications in Europe and thus correct a situation of inequality that ultimately favours private education, disincentives or that at last today students choose other training routes and not a training that ultimately is training for the sake of our cultural wealth as a people. I had already commented on the comrade who, since 2009, through Royal Decree 1614, established the ordinance of artistic teachings and opened the door with the Bologna Plan to a future integration into the studies, but that never arrived, the administrations never met. I was surprised that this morning I heard Mr. King Varela quote the artistic teachings, and I thought that we were going to take a surprise, that we were going to come forward, finally, a solution and that we wouldn't have to debate this proposal not of law in the afternoon, but unfortunately, he quoted the artistic teachings as who included a demonstrative article or an indefinite article in a prayer, without further delay. And from these dusts, these results; we have today that the student has a higher degree in force within the framework of the Spanish State, but not at European level, which does not recognise it automatically, and which, therefore, would have to enter into a process of validation which would involve an investment, not only of money, but also of time, without ensuring a final result, and we find ourselves with which many judgments of the Supreme Court have endorsed this situation of clear discrimination and that LOMCE has not been worth us, ladies and gentlemen, or even for that. Nothing has been done in the light of this situation before the Education Council, which should have been a flag of the needs that Galicia has in this regard, and we continue for another year in this situation. Already in 2013-2014 the first promotion with the top title of Artistic Teachings, which today has this limit marked in its professional career, and therefore cannot achieve master's or doctor's degrees if they do not attend private universities, as has already been explained by the Socialist Party. Slowness and economic cost. And all of this leads us to a scenario where artistic teachings turn into studies that will be marked by inequality and elites, because only economic elites will be able to access this kind of study. The partner introduced the issue of scholarships, which is worrying, but it is only to encourage a specialization in those studies that they have to end up going to private education and which, as has been said, is going to expand that supply bag and find a new market there. We understand that this is an anomalous situation, that in the rest of the world the usual thing is that these kinds of teachings are already incorporated into the regulated university framework and, therefore, it makes no sense that we are still that exception, together with Italy. We support this claim of the platform in support of this issue that the Socialist Party brings today, and we will continue to do it, repeatedly, as the People's Party likes, because while they do not assume that this is a matter of common sense and that it is necessary to seek a legislative exit, which is not for anything complicated, because we will have to continue with this issue on the table. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u185	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I can't agree more with the two companions who just spoke, the companion of the Nationalist Block Galego, Noa, and the companion of Concepción Burgo. I believe that the claim of arts schools is such a sensible claim, it is such a necessary claim, that only that will is lacking, indeed, because we have always supported this — since December we had meetings with the platform. Already in December, a fellow of ours, Alexandra Fernández, urged the Ministry of Education to look for parliamentary initiatives registered in the Lower House so that in the autonomous communities a dialogue would be initiated and if this topic was addressed, which, as it was said, is in limbo; that is, it is in absolute indefinition. What you're asking for is very logical, what you're asking for is integration. Integration where? In the European Space. And why? Because this would enable us to strengthen, prestigious and, in addition, to have an impact that has not been named until now, and that is a social impact, which is a cultural impact, of great dimensions and great wealth for our country. So the socio-economic effects would be very beneficial to society as a whole. And, in particular, if we think about schools of dramatic art, what lessons do they teach in dramatic art? Nothing but Dramaturxia, nothing other than Scenery, nothing less than Direction. Three professions that have been being, for thousands and thousands of years, developed by people of high size and coming from other professions, for architects, for painters, for people of very large size, great dramatists and dramatists are the ones who give a living society, because a people without culture is a dead people. We have to take care of our training. In addition, there is a broad consensus — you have simply chosen those aspects which have not already been said in previous interventions to avoid paying back —. The subscription — and I will quote it because it is important to keep it in mind — is important. There are 16 associations that are important and that are supporting this platform: the Galaga Academy of Audiovisual, the Cultural Association A Pipe, of Becerreá, the Association of Actors and actresses of Galicia, the Acre -Association of Conservatives and Restorers-, the EFTA -Association of Writers in Gallega-, Afearte -Association of Festivals of the Scene of Galicia-, the AGAG -Association of Scriptists-, the Association of Circus, the Professional Association of Circus—also—, the Association of Translators, Educators and Educators of Galicia, Dramaturga. Association of Dramaturns and Dramaturns, Scene Galicia - the association of companies-, Fegatea - Association of Amateur Theatre Lagoon, New Galician School and Unima - Association of puppets-. And, well, all trade unions, civil society and all associations, the teacher and, of course, the student. We have named some of the dramatic art studies, but we can name some of the music studies, higher music schools, such as Interpretation, Composition, Pedagogy, Direction. What valuation does the Government of the People's Party have of these teachings? If they really want — as the Counsellor said this morning — to support art, for they give it rank, which is possible. It is possible by two paths: the path of provisional adscription or the path of definitive adscription. We believe that art gives us life, that bringing culture to the heart of administration is also necessary, because it is art in our country — with all pride we can say — to the vanguard of tolerance, in the fight against prejudice, in the fight against social discrimination. We could continue to talk about all the studies, such as archaeology, sculpture, painting... we care, we protect; this is really a constitutional order and the Statute of autonomy of Galicia. And nothing else. Thank you very much — in time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Mr Fernández Gil has the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u187	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Members of the People's Group continue to wait for apologies for the slander spread against all members of the People's Party on social media, calling us "women's killers". [[Applause]] I'd like to point out a series of appreciations, first of all, on the subject that we're going to deal with and that I think we have to put on the table. First of all, I want to think — and so I do, and so I understand — that from his interventions there is no criticism or questioning of the quality of higher artistic teachings in Galicia. Because we, of course, defend that the system of higher artistic teachings in Galicia is a quality system; and, ultimately, educational systems have to be defined, among other things, by the quality of teaching that is given. Therefore, we understand that the work of the professionals who teach these centers and the work of the entire educational community in these centers is to put value and to keep in mind, to highlight and not doubt, of the quality of these educational centers. Having said this, there is another question that I would like to point out, too, that here are different aspects that need to be put into play, and that I believe that all groups should be valued. As we all know, these teachings have a practical and personalized character for the student. These are teachings that usually require an almost individual impartion, with totally different evaluation criteria and with specific access tests also and independent of university access tests. That's for one part. On the other hand, I believe that we must also put on the table a concept of what, of course, was not spoken on the part of any of the other groups, such as university autonomy. We, of course, respect the autonomy of the university organization. I think you know — and so we all know — that universities, if they want, can take the initiative to apply to Join a Centre. And if it were to meet the regulatory requirements, it would begin the procedure to do so through an agreement. I think we all know that. And we also know that universities can also decide, create and offer artistic higher education lessons of a university nature. We all know that, don't we? Well, then, I think those questions also have to be put on the table. The current situation — as has been noted — is a situation in which a number of legislative changes have been made, a number of steps, but it must be pointed out that the Government of the State, in line with that established in the LOMCE and in order to strengthen precisely the character of higher education, applies them to the same level as a university degree. For this purpose the Royal Decree 96/2014 was published, which was to amend the real decrees of 2011 and 2007. In particular, in the amendment affecting the annex to the Royal Decree of 2011 the levels and qualifications are established within the Spanish Qualifications Framework for Higher Education. In the first level, as a superior technician, they would be the senior professional training technicians of Plastic Arts and Design and the top sports technicians. And in the second level, at the grade level, they would be university degrees and higher degrees of higher artistic teaching. They are at the same level and within the same range in the Spanish framework of qualifications for higher education. So you also talked about Supreme Court judgments. Indeed, but precisely because of those judgments, the Royal Decree 21/2015 was also published, so the 2009 Decree was amended and it established absolute legal certainty for the student who is attending these teachings, so it is not explained the existence of that interest for painting a situation as if these teachings were useless at all. We're talking about titles equivalent to the degree. In the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the higher artistic teachings are fully developed and have these specific centres of which you have spoken: higher studies of Music in Coruña and Vigo; Dramatic Art in Vigo; Design in Coruña, Santiago, Lugo and Ourense; and higher studies of Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Goods in Pontevedra. Galicia therefore has a network of centers of higher artistic teaching in the fields of music, dramatic art, design, conservation and restoration of cultural goods that has demonstrated its quality. And besides, there have been lines of collaboration with universities -- I've set an example -- With the aim of strengthening the collaboration between these teachings of conservation and restoration of cultural goods in the university field in 2014, the Council of Culture signed an agreement with the University of Vigo for the realization of the title of official master in Valuation, Management and Conservation of Cultural Heritage through this Higher School of Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Goods. Trying to put a new label on them doesn't guarantee an improvement in the quality of teaching. That's why he said it is vital for us to maintain the quality of this teaching, which we understand is being given with quality. And besides — and already to finish — there is a criterion that you have also pointed out in your speeches, which is the economic criterion. And probably also what they'd have to say in many cases is that if these schools are equalized or enrolled in colleges, the rates they're paying for credit in each of them would be highly increased to raise them to the level of fees they're paying in colleges.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u189	So in this sense, I would ask them to be more rigorous in their exhibitions and that, if we understand that the quality of these centers and that the teaching...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u191	...which is given in these centers is of quality, we don't have to change our position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. For the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Gil, do you know the existence of university scholarships, which are the ones who pay the tuition? Of course, as you don't believe in the entrance to the weaker economies in college, that's why he says that the rates are going to rise and then they can't get in. No, of course, of course... his children, at the university, and the children of the poorest, at another kind of teaching. [[Applause]] That's what you just said, which seems to me to be unacceptable at all times. Look, Mr. Fernández Gil, there is a unanimous consensus of all the schools of artistic teaching, who want to go along the path of the adscription. At least that deserves respect, Mr. Fernández Gil, because, look, they are the ones who are every day with the problems that the current legislation is causing. They're the ones who're dealing with the students, they're the ones who're trying to solve the problems that all this is causing to the students. So at least they deserve the respect that, when they give a solution, it's the most appropriate solution. Besides, they're not looking for anything, Mr. Fernández Gil, because you imagine that you know it's much harder and that it's going to take them a challenge, an extra job, sign up and meet all the requirements of the university, but, look, they can. Because I started saying they have a great prestige, and you're already trying to change things. Of course they have great prestige, but what they have is also great problems in developing their work. Because, look, if you are a child or a child of yours or another person — I don't care about a student — who can pay for the university, they give you a degree of Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Goods and in front of you has a higher degree than grade, what do you choose? Mr. Fernández Gil, what do you choose for that student, hypothetical son of yours? Ah!, surely the university degree, right? Because this doesn't make any sense anymore. And, look, this is that equivalence is real and that there's no problem... I'm going to read an email from a student directed to the School for the Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Property after all the PP decrees for the management of artistic teachings, which says the following -- he's in Spanish -- "Good morning, I'm calling XXX, with DNI XXX. I studied at that center and I graduated in 2009. I want to sign up on the board lists for museum assistants, and the requirement is to be a university graduate. Last year I was not admitted to the lists because I didn't consider my qualification to be equivalent to a diploma. In order not to happen to me again, this year I ask you to make me a certification where that equivalence is shown, or indicate to me what rule I can clearly see that my title is equivalent to a diploma in order to be able to attach it to my application. Can you send it to me?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh shsh This is the equivalence of the PP, which is not even useful for the Galician Union. What a trick! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u194	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u195	Even the Galician Union doesn't even admit to these students. [[Applause]] You lost the opportunity to be the head, to be the innovators in this process. Mr. Fernández Gil, do we bet anything that will come to this? But, as always, Galicia will be on the tail and not on the head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u196	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. Let us turn to the debate on the following non-legislation proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People in Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and 14 other Members, on the request from the Galician Council to the Galician Fisheries Council for a biannual report aimed at improving the competitiveness and sustainability of the fisheries sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u197	This non-law proposal was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Juan José Merlo Lorenzo; of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Dolores Toja Suárez; and of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Monserrat Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u198	Mr. López Crespo has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u199	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House of Commons are waiting for us to apologize to Mrs Carmen Santos. [[Applause]] Let's talk here about the fishing council... the applause of Antonio Sanchez cheers me up. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if he gives them as Bolshevik or as a great friend. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] We're going to talk about the Galician Fisheries Council, which, as you know, is a collective body of joint participation and advice for the Council on all fisheries, aquaculture and seafood issues. It was the People's Party that created and promoted the functioning of this body through Decree 246/2002, and which later improved and reformed with Decree 123/2011 of 16 June. Its main role is to collaborate with the Council in the development and planning of fisheries, seafood and aquaculture and in the programming of studies and reports of various activities that may favour the fishing development of our country in Greece. The Council's role is also to study and propose the reforms it considers necessary in the regulation and impacts in the Welsh fisheries sector, as well as to propose reforms, to channel recommendations and to provide suggestions for policies affecting the sector as a whole. This body also consults other bodies and institutions and also requests reports and dictations. The Galician Fisheries Council consists of the full and a total of ten sectoral committees with specific topics in each area. There's one important thing, and it's that they themselves, each sector, choose their representatives. We are especially advocates of the functioning of this body, and that is why we have made it possible for it to take shape, but, in addition to creating it, this government calls with boldness the meetings of this body to go forward with proposals, and so in the last year, it has met five times. Not only did he meet five times, but there were six working groups that are preparing six very important dictates for the development of fishing in Galicia. It wasn't always so, there were times, from 2005 to 2009, in the bipartisan government, where the meetings were more sporadic, in which their functioning was sadder and there was no such dynamism. And so, in 2005, he met again; in 2006 he met again; in 2007 he met again twice, but in 2008 he met four times; four times in a month, in a month of special conflicting dynamism in the sector, and he had to meet to hear what they wanted. In short, during the two-party government eight times in a whole legislature, with the PP government, almost the same times in a year. Finally, from the People's Party we want this body to meet with the sector and how often it is necessary to work hand in hand with them. That's why we, from the People's Group, find it very important that this be done this way, and in fact, we have achieved unanimous approval of the PCP's dictatorship, something very important and never achieved. For this party it is very important to go from the hands of the sector, and that is why we are presenting this initiative, so that it may be an agreement from this House. I'm sure we're all going to vote. So, knowing the importance of the role of this body, where the whole fishing sector is represented, to keep an eye on its interests, we channel it in the best way possible, and we make this proposal: "The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to promote by the Galician Fisheries Council the preparation of a biannual report on concerns and problems, as well as short, medium and long-term objectives and lines of action, with a view to improving the competitiveness and sustainability of the sector." A series of actions and successes in the management of the Fisheries Council could be used to endorse what we propose here with this Galician Fisheries Council. There are a number of positive aspects, such as quotas, for example. Negotiation in Europe has allowed our quotas to increase by 13% in tonnes and 55% in value since 2012. This is a very important aspect and it's a line that always keeps the Councillor's mind, and primarily his advisor. It's not the most important thing to draw the resource from the sea; it's important to draw the resource from the sea, but it's important that you have recourse to it for it to continue to exist, and what's more important is that this resource from the sea provides benefits to the collective. Little by little - a simple example is understood - to get 100 kilograms of sardines, and we get 100 euros, if we increase, we get 150 kilograms of sardines, but we only get 101 euros. This isn't good. This is anti-ecological and anti-economic. That's why it's important to regulate quotas. We also have the discharges far away. The economic value of the 2016 fish and seafood sales reaches the highest figure in the last 20 years, 372 million euros. Maintenance and expansion of activity: 900 vessels regularized in our fishing fleet, thanks to improvement in the regulation of regularization promoted by the Council. Nearly eight million cubic meters of recovered shellfish areas; I repeat, 8 million cubic meters. These are aspects that we can no longer forget and which are due to that exchange, that interaction between the Galician Fisheries Council and the Council itself. There, in that Galician Fisheries Council, this is where the total annulment, in general, at the board, but in the Fisheries Council, of the single thought, is demonstrated. There's no single direction here, here they interact with the different parts involved, and they get formulas to move forward. The siege also had its improvements. There's an important aspect, the enrollment in nautical schools. The setting up of coastal action groups is very important, and you see, by the way, when you have the origin of municipal policy on the coast, you see the importance of the contributions made by coastal action groups over the last seven years, where not only has the sector improved, but the development of resources that had these municipalities bordering the sea. Even people who for various reasons wanted to give up fishing and seafood could do so by other activities supported by these groups, which shared, distributed a total of 25 million euros, creating 250 new jobs. Then there's the fight against theft, too. This is something that is used very politically, that of theft. Well, it was the People's Party that managed to improve the fight against theft, to introduce it into the Criminal Code and to strengthen the criminal character of repeat theft. Finally, the diffusion of the added value of the products of the sea, the differentiation, the increase of the quality mark of the fishery by 1,800%, and internationalization. In this way we could continue to appoint a number of improvements in the fisheries sector, in the seafood sector, in the aquaculture sector, which make us propose to the other groups of this Parliament that are voting in favour of this GNP. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u200	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u201	Mr López, I must admit that I was intrigued to know what this effort was to bring to this Parliament initiatives by urging the Galician Fisheries Council to work and meet, because in the 8th Commission on 14 February, you also presented an initiative for the Galego Fisheries Council to carry out a particular analysis of the situation of the wharves, the discards, the consequences of Brexit... today comes another one, and I said: "Why would you want to put so much duty on the Galego Fisheries Council?" And I'm glad you've already made it clear to me: to meet more times than during the Bipartite. Well, everything has an explanation. But it was easier, man! I could do it and send him a note that they met without having to bring these initiatives here. Let me play a joke, because, of course, it's not so bad that opposition groups are here, and when they don't approve of it, we insist again. So that's just so bad; now, to bring these kinds of initiatives, I don't know how to qualify. My partner, Luis Bará, one day qualified them as "smooth initiatives." It seemed wrong, so, well, initiatives... I, of course, with this desire to give work to the Galician Fisheries Council, to do analysis, studies, to propose what are the alternatives, the lines of action that must be done in the short, medium and long term, the same as the next initiative that it brings is that the Council is dissolved and that it becomes the Galician Fisheries Council which establishes the policy to be pursued in fishing; to which, of course, the BNG will not oppose and will seem fantastic. But, of course, to a Galician Fisheries Council that is convened when the presidency, the advisor or someone in the Council wants, for what he wants and according to what he wants, for, the truth is, I don't know what you should wear. That's why the BNG tabled an amendment, and it's an amendment to give value to that work that the Galician Fisheries Council does, because you're putting so many duties on it, asking it to make so many reports, that what we ask at the BNG is that these reports are binding. Since you bring here continually initiatives to make reports, because those reports serve something, not so that you can come here later to say that in one year you met more than in four of the Bipartite. Maybe you haven't just made it clear why the Galician Fisheries Council met so many times last year. Wouldn't it be because there was an aquaculture law with which the People's Party was very concerned? Oh, no! It has nothing to do with it. I'm sorry, I'm a little confused. Well, we tabled an amendment to make it worth the work of the Galician Fisheries Council, to be binding, to make reports, but then the Government has an obligation to pay attention to those reports and to carry them out, because, well, it seems to us that it is the least we can do. Because, look, what you're asking for on the initiative is that I put the worries and problems in that report. The fact is that the sector is quite clear about the concerns and problems, Mr López, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And what are the worries? Because the common fisheries policy was renewed in 2014 and the relative stability principle has not been revised, which condemns our fishing sector to be less and less relevant and from being one of the most strategic to being less and less. Those are issues that concern the sector. Or, what's the sector concerned? For the deployment of 30 ships in the Great Sun in the last seven years, or that lobbyists in the European Union are subject to lobbying and can increase licenses and catches for their fleets while the Galician fleet is increasingly driven by historic quays, such as Mauritania or Morocco, or the model of TACs, which is demolient for the maintenance of activity and employment, or that European Union funds are designed not to help a highly fishing-dependent area, such as our country, as Galicia, but to reduce tonnage, individual distribution or to facilitate the deployment of foreign capital. Or what are the worries of the sector? For the Spanish State is applying the criteria imposed by Brussels: the adaptation of the fleet to allocated resources, individual allocations, greater control of activity, with a fully submitted Galician Union which does not open its mouth. Those are the worries of the sector. Or that in the application of the Operational Plan for Fleet Reduction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u203	... by 2020 they undertake to dismantle 569 ships, or the death of the Berberich, or that the boats on the coast are currently missing and that, of 98 ships when it arrived Feijóo to the Government of the Union, there are now 43. Those are the worries of the sector, which you know. What they're not willing to do is do nothing. They bring these things here so that reports are made to look like something is done, they're worried about it, and I'm counting on it as an initiative, but they really don't have any desire that these worries in the sector will soon be reflected in a document and in a report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u205	...thank you for congratulating the Galician Union. With which, with all due respect, Mr. Lopez, what do you want me to tell you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u207	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I ask you, first of all, that if you're getting together so long, why do you bring these kinds of initiatives? That's for starters. Once again, as the PP has used to us, today it brings the debate to an initiative that doesn't say anything. I'm going to call this kind of placebo initiatives from now on because -- as you know -- placebo is a substance that's not for nothing but deceives who takes it. And I wonder who they're trying to fool with these kinds of initiatives that they're presenting, I don't understand. This placebo initiative, in particular, beats all records of what they've presented so far, and I'm telling you why. See, at the DOG on 1 July 2011, decree 123/2011 of 16 June was published by the Council of the Sea, which regulates the Galician Fisheries Council. And in article 2, functions, as their name indicates, set the functions of such advice. And within the functions I was working with the Council of the Sea in the development of fishing, seafood and aquaculture planning and in the programming of studies. (b) to study and propose reforms which it considers necessary in fisheries regulation. (c) propose reforms, channel recommendations, provide suggestions. I mean, the PP, with its initiative, comes to say that the Galician Fisheries Council is preparing a report biannually, but instead of proposing direct reforms, which sets targets and lines of action. I mean, with his initiative he's going to promote the Galician Fisheries Council to do what he has to do, the reason why he's born, his reason for being. Parliament will urge the Government to do something that is already marked in Article 2 of Decree 123/2011 of 16 June, and bring this initiative here today. It looks like a coat of hair to me! I ask them, do you have any real interest in the fishing sector? Any interest, really? Because you see that there are important issues such as quota sharing, the situation of abandonment where the harbour infrastructures are located, the state of our rivers... at last, and they bring us these kinds of issues! Why don't you bring some important issues? He also told us that the siege had its improvements. Look, what I'm looking for is that if you improve the situation of your quota sharing, and the other day in Congress, you've agreed to modify the quota allocation of the siege with your votes against the PP. That's what the fence wants, not that they come together to tell you they want to change their quotas. That's what they want, to support these kinds of initiatives. That's what the fence wants. [[Applause]] As you know, we tabled an amendment, and we tabled this amendment so that when the Galician Fisheries Council does what it has to do, that is to say, what Article 2 of Decree 123/2011 sets out, when it performs its functions, by exercising transparency, it brings to the Commission 8th, in accordance with Article 143 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, these reports and which are known to it. Because we must not forget that all of us here represent the Greeks and the Greeks, all of them. And it's with the background of these Greeks and Welsh people who report it. So it's fair that they bring themselves to the commission and share each other. In addition, these reports should propose, as indicated in Article 2, reforms which are considered necessary in fisheries regulation. Because what you propose is goals, short, medium and long-term lines of action; all the deadlines that exist: short, medium and long. Objectives. At this point, I ask you, are you not clear what the objectives of the fishing sector are? With the budgets made, are we going to talk about targets? With the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan made, are we going to talk about goals?, really? Short, medium and long, all deadlines? Do you think you're serious? Not to me. I don't think it's serious, at all, to bring these kinds of initiatives. Look, I'm going to tell you, these initiatives at the end are the way to dress up their incompetence, and they think that as most of them are worth everything. They think and believe, if not, they would not present these sort of completely empty initiatives of content, in which no kind of commitment is established. And that has a name, it's called demagogy. The Greeks were the creators of democracy, but also of their antithesis, demagogy, that you practice daily. The highest representatives of the antithesis and the degeneration of democracy: demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u209	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the bad thing about talking last among the amendments is that precisely many times the arguments are made. But, really, in view of this documentary presentation on the Galego Fisheries Council which made the introduction of this LNP, the reality is that there is this real decree, in 2011, which regulates its periodicity in its Article 22. So what you've done so far is made more conditional by that regulation than by other matters related to a party or political formation. We believe that the Galician Fisheries Council is an important tool, but we believe that we need to deepen much more in development than that Galician Fisheries Council is. It needs an intermediate link, where different sectors can move more effectively, more effectively, their positions to their representatives, so that they can actually have a position supported by their sector. We believe that it is very necessary to deepen the creation of these structures in order to achieve a plural and participated functioning of that council. In this we believe that political figures remain and social figures are missing. The subject of the sea is very serious, and you can't walk by patching up all the problems that arise. We must agree to positions with all parties and political forces, especially with regard to positions in order to apply standards, veils, quotas etc. We believe greater support and presence of research and analysis in the reports of the Galician Fisheries Council is essential. This can only be ensured by a higher budgetary bet of the consignments intended for research and technical analysis of the sectors and their fisheries. We also believe that the election of the representatives of the Fisheries Council, given its own nature, must be reformulated to ensure not only its plurality, but also a greater degree of independence from the board. We think this is fundamental, precisely because it would give him more power. Finally, an annual report could, as the comrades have already said, make a single report during this tenth legislation. Given that the sea generates 24,000 direct jobs; that for each direct job in the sea there are 4 jobs on land; that among the 10 main conservatories in Galicia already add an annual billing of approximately EUR 1,500 million; that we have more than 3,350 batas and more than 1,100 nursery, we think that the theme of the sea is a very serious issue. So I don't know if you've thought it through, but you have to realize that with a single report of an orientation throughout this legislation, we're not going to solve too much, and it's not a way of taking the problem of the sector very seriously. With regard to this GNP, we propose a replacement amendment, precisely by collecting the issues I have just exposed. And we present it because what the PP requests in it is expressly collected — as some companions have already said — in chapter I, article 2, paragraph e).
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u210	Quiet, please. There's a lot of murmuring in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u211	...of Decree 123/2011, which regulates the Galician Fisheries Council, and which says textually, "to issue reports and dictates in all cases where the council itself so provides, as well as when requested by the Sea Council." I mean, I'm not going to qualify for the proposal at all, but I understand that, since we're here, we're going to try to get something positive from that. We therefore transmit a replacement amendment that says: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to amend Decree 123/2011 of 16 June 2011 with the aim of deepening co-management in fisheries matters. Increase the budgetary allocation of stocks for research and technical analysis of sectors and their fisheries. Suppress the discretionary ability of the counsellor in appointing part of this organ". Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u212	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u213	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Carmen Santos, we're still waiting for your apology. We really expect them. [[Applause]] I spoke of the Bipartite, Mrs. Prado. I like it -- I said one day -- I use here sometimes the socratic method, which has the ironic part and the majeutics. In ironic I convince the interlocutor that he is in error. And in Mayeutics I tell you the ways I'm going to get to where we're interested, which is to improve the fishing sector. I'll tell you again. Why am I talking about the Bipartite? That's pure and hard comparative politics. You laugh, you laugh, but other people on that left bank politically associate us with a dictator who died on November 20, 1975. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's also a comparative policy, but it's an erroneously compared policy. [[Applause]] I'm talking because... you guys in the Bipartite... I talked about sadness, and I didn't talk about social sadness, I talked about sadness because it didn't work. [[Murmurs.]] I know they call it campaign initiatives. I think it was Mrs. Vilan in a humorous tone; I think she's all right. Most striking was Mr. Julius Torrado, who spoke of "washing and massage in an act unit." That's it. No, the "unit of act" I say. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's a legal term, I don't know if you'd use it. The unit of action I say, said the one about washing and massage. You say the General Fisheries Council meets when you want the advisor. It's not true. It's not true. It's not true. That may have been when you were a government. That's why he gathered only a few times, because they didn't like to listen. It is true that you meet when you want the members of that Galician Fisheries Council. You make a proposal, but you make a proposal that says it's binding. But what do you think? I don't know the qualification, do you think the members of the Galician Fisheries Council suffer from collective papacy? Or do you think the agreements they make are to take the trash out when the meeting is over? It's not legally binding, but it's binding because the people who are there have a commitment to improve. I well know that with that word, you're not too busy. The one about the PSOE, Mrs. Toja, really, if you hadn't finished as you finished, speaking of an amendment, I thought it wasn't you. But then he presents a fine very well-crafted, so well-crafted that we're going to study it, I'm going to offer him a transaction where he's almost going to include his amendment. How do you tell us that this is an initiative? Do you know what I understood? That was only for measuring my disability. And that's possible, that's possible, but by myself, not that of the People's Party or those of the people who make up the Galician Fisheries Council. Where, by the way -- and I'm telling you about En Marea -- the council has powers to name only 15%. So it's saved its... -- it's only 15% --...independence. I'm the one with the demagogy, Mrs. Toja...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u214	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u215	I'm done. You're very young. Never call a 67-year-old politician a demagogue. You can pull out of the resume and leave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u216	Quiet, please. The amendments. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u217	The gestual transcription, the gestual transcription.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u218	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u219	Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez is highly eloquent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u220	The amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u221	This is the second time I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u222	Mr. Lopez Crespo, the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u223	Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez's gestual transcription is eloquent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u224	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u225	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u226	Finish with the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u227	Excuse me, can I talk about the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u228	Yeah, yeah, talk to me, and tell me what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u229	I'll share it... No... is it to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u230	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u231	I'll bring you an amendment to see it, and tomorrow, if you're all right, without a microphone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u232	Transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u233	I'll take the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u234	Thank you. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Torrado, what do you want the word for? Well, they went out of line. Mrs. Vilan too. [[Murmurs.]] Come on, come on! One minute. Let's see if we can get this over with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But don't give me an allusion like whoever gives someone a donation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u236	No, no... it was something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u237	I'm sorry, Mr. President, that I'm using the word and I've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u238	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u239	We've had a previous full in which someone made an appeal for read allusions, which I think is mentioned. I, sir, never said what you said. He said he was doing bathroom performances and massage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u241	But in view of today's initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u242	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u243	...that was short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u244	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Quiet. Allusions interpret the presidency, as you know. That's what the regulation says. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice for the increase of the plant of the Prosecutor's Office in Galicia, as well as to the Attorney General's Office of the State for the designation of an exclusive anti-corruption prosecutor for the autonomous community
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u245	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u246	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u247	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. We are bringing this initiative here today because, unfortunately, despite Mrs Prado, the cases of corruption of the People's Party, and of the PPdeG in particular, they are not, unfortunately, isolated cases, but rather a sad reality so pervading that society already sees it as something inevitable, and we are making it as something that is intrinsic to the system or to power and that nothing has to do with its concerns and with its daily affairs as it can be at the end of the month and to quality public services to those who have the right to access. The truth is, there's nothing further from reality. Obviously, on the one hand, because corruption affects the health of our democracy, and, secondly, because it is linked in most cases to the illegal theft or fate of public money, of those money that should be paid infrastructure, health personnel, schools, pensions, medicines, impulses to the employment of all Greeks and Greeks. Mr. Prado, a few days ago in Commission No. 1, very indignantly, he asked for the word after a question we asked about Black cards at the board — and he doesn't answer us if there were black cards — to say that, because of my intervention, his party, where they ruled, had tiny corruption rates. And he also claimed that in his party what existed were isolated cases of corruption and people who were once militants of the People's Party but who were ashamed of them and had nothing to do with them, like, for example, the superminister Mr. Rato, of what they used to be very proud and now publicly reject. He claimed, therefore, that it was not fair to put everyone in the same bag. And he said this very vehemently, when we still find out today that Mr. Rajoy can't get Murcia's president, accused of urban corruption, out of internal matters. We'd like to know what Mr. Rajoy is afraid of, what the government is afraid of, and what they're trying to hide, because, if not, we can't find much explanation. How can you say something like this, being a Member, if your party has the sad honour of being the first party of democracy to be charged with justice: Operation Champion, Pokémon, Condor, Orchestra, Baltar, Gürtell, Punica, Bárcenas, Table... If we go back to the past, the famous Naseiro case. We can go on, but you tell me, then, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — those who are present here — how many cases are necessary for us to view corruption as a real problem and not as isolated cases, 1, 2, 3, 50, 500? The truth is, we would like them to answer us honestly and seriously. We can also put some of the most recent and closest cases on the table, such as the imputation of the president of the Galician Advisory Council, Mr. Costas Pillado, investigated for corruption in the context of Operation Condor, related to a supposed plot of whitening and trafficking in influence. According to phone taps, businessman Raúl López, President of Monbús, intended to avoid with the management of Costa Pillado a precept that would allegedly harm his interests in the road passenger transport business leading here in Galicia. Mrs Prado, with whom I share the 1st Commission, was also present when Mr. Costas Pillado was asked about this issue, which she strongly denied, and she also defended Mr. Costas Pillado's honorability in total vehement manner. Days later we'll find out he's charged. Today, the former spokesperson for democracy, Joaquim Bosch, said that the index of cases of corruption justified a specific prosecution for Galicia—like the one we claimed in our PNL—for several reasons: because we have enough cases like the ones cited, and because not only corruption, the breakdown or trafficking of influences, but legalized corruption like the rotational doors, are an evidence that this anti-corruption prosecutor is absolutely necessary in this country. You all know who I'm talking about, for example, like Ence or AP-9. Let's get this straight. So it's a company to which Mr. Mariano Rajoy, when he was president-in-office, extended his concession so that this could continue to be next to Pontevedra River until 2073, when before the reform the law forced this multinational to leave their current placement in 2018. They're in function, they approve this. Casualty or not, they were part of the Board of Directors of the Eleven three people related to the People's Party: the former Environment Minister between 1996 and 2000, Isabel Tocino; the former Environmental Adviser of the Union between 1997 and 2003, Carlos del Alamo, and what was Secretary of State of Waters and Coasts in the Government of José María Aznar, Pascual Fernández, what a chance! This is more than a sample of how to use a seat or a public station to become enriched later in the multinationals for which it is legislate. Another case of legalized corruption, but that remains corruption, is the case of AP-9, and I'm going to explain why. In 2000, when Mr Fraga Iribarne and Minister for Development Álvarez Cascos was President of the Board, the concession of this 25-year-old motorway was extended from 2023 to 2048, the theme of AP-9, in addition to what we are talking about repeatedly in this House. Or not, three years after this concession AUDASA was bought by Sacyr Vallehermoso, a company also investigated in the plot Gürtell for maintaining somewhat strange relations with the People's Party. Just on those dates, when AP-9 was privatized, Mr. Feijóo was in charge of the Territory's ordination councillor, and, although he was already political, he did not oppose the least of this privatization. And we know perfectly well why he didn't object, because he wouldn't dare take the opposite to Mr. Fraga, since it depended on him that he could be president of the board or candidate of the board. As a good dolphin, he accepted and shut up, and now he says that it is impossible for A-9 to be in private hands, but at the moment he could do something about it, he gave silence in response and there he showed for whom he is ruling, and it is not precisely for the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks, but for the interests of other parts that are not in this Parliament or vote in the elections. If we're really talking about powder apples in a basket, we'd have to get them out of the basket to not ruin the salt apples -- that I think anyone understands -- but if it's all the basket or tree that's affected, what we need is to have all the necessary measures to eradicate infection with the greatest agility. Hence the essence of this GNP; a GNP that we present here today and in which we claim a proper anti-corruption prosecution for Galicia, defended and claimed also by people of relevance within the judiciary. For example, we spoke of the president of the Progressive Tax Union and the Galician Environment Prosecutor, Álvaro García Ortiz, who a few months ago considered it completely incomprehensible that there was no anti-corruption prosecutorial office in Galicia. He also claimed that having a specialized body would be more effective, since having specialists on the subject would be much faster, something that would be very necessary in cases of political corruption because they are often very complex and tend to prolong over time, and we see the indignation that this causes in citizenship. Apart from Mr. García Ortiz, there were more people who stood on this subject. Fernando Suanzes himself, nothing more and nothing less than the superior prosecutor of Galicia, claimed just three months ago that, for the crimes of corruption registered here, Galicia needed a specialized prosecutor. But we must also defend that in order for this problem to be really combated, it needs those cases convicted of corruption to carry a greater penalty in legal law. Joaquim Bosch — as I have already mentioned — says that our criminal laws are very hard on the conducts linked to freedom of expression, as well as on the criminalization of poverty, but they are extremely mild by political and financial crime. That's the only way to explain that people like Iñaki Urdangarín, and much more recent people like Blossa or Rat, had not gone into jail after being convicted, in the face of popular indignation, and if three minors — three university boys in Santiago, better said — who go into prison for a scrambled teacher who said homophobic slogans in the class, for not talking about puppets or the kidnapper, who we all know for sure now, unfortunately, all of us here. Laws must be much tougher against political corruption, and justice must once and for all eliminate the application of legal norms depending on whether we meet between first-born citizens or second-born citizens, according to this system that you are perpetuating, because we cannot have an unequal justice for all. Normal people, when they think they're not well defended, change their lawyer. The People's Party directly changes taxes. We need independent justice, real independence, if we really believe and defend democracy. They'll probably talk about the replica of the famous transparency law that was drafted just before the election last year, or should talk about it. It is a law which, by the way, remains without effective application for the scarce resources intended to enforce it. It is a pity that the Socialist Party is not criticised by the law of dependency, saying that laws cannot be passed with a real will to make them viable and that they are executed when they are not endowed with resources. Well, apply the story in the law of transparency!, because it's hard to believe that you want to fight corruption without budgeting this law, and if at the same time they were preparing it, you were getting bottles of Vega Sicilian wine your government. Of course for us, for the Tide Group, it's a position that has no coherence. These days, when I came to Santiago, I was listening to an old song by La Polla Records on a radio station called "Just for everyone," and at one point in the letter he said, "Tell me, tell me, for those who made the prison, because the rich never comes in and the poor never comes out." We're talking about a letter from the 1980s that applies directly and will pick up the feelings of thousands of people. Andrés Bodalo, a unionist convicted of defending workers and workers, told Pablo Iglesias last weekend something that defines a sad reality of our state: "In this prison we are 600 and none are rich." Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to end my exhibition, today they have the opportunity in the People's Group to show whether they are really ashamed of some of their comrades and companions as they claim, and above all if they believe in democracy and the division of powers that they must support, or if, on the contrary, they prefer to remain accommodated in the comfort of real or suspected crimes by which they seem to pay only bills to the victims, that is, citizens and citizens, by seeing their resources for the welfare state, for the generation of employment, for social coverage and for all they need. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u249	Thank you, President. Aside from the legal considerations that the voicer of En Marea has exposed us in her speech, the truth is that Mr. Bódalo was convicted of an assault on a colleague of the Socialist Party, he was not condemned for anything else, and therefore was convicted of a crime. [[Applause]] To begin with, I have to say that the exhibition part of this initiative really only speaks of the designation of an anti-corruption prosecutor, although there are actually two applications in its proposal: the necessary increase of the Public Prosecutor's Staff Board in Galicia — and I would say more, in the rest of Spain is also necessary — and in particular a measure of fight against corruption through the appointment of an anti-corruption prosecutor. As for the first one, the indispensable increase in the Public Prosecutor's Office's staff framework in our autonomous community is something that does not even deny, in fact, Galicia's superior prosecutor, and in the memoirs of the Prosecutor's Office for 20124 and 2015 so claims. There is a shortage of prosecutors throughout the territory, it is questionable, but above all there is a shortage of prosecutors in Lugo, in the prosecutors' offices of Lugo, Santiago, Ourense, Vigo and Cambados. So the prosecutors of these five sites have expressly collected these requests in their memoirs, in the memory of the Prosecutor's Office, every time they come to this Parliament, from the years 2014 and 2015. We believe that, instead of talking about the prosecutor's plant — because there may be confusion with the judicial plant, even if there is no prosecutor's plant — perhaps the most appropriate term would be to talk about the staff of the prosecutors, because the prosecutors are officials who depend on the Ministry of Justice and have nothing to do with the judicial plant, but we understand that the prosecutor's office plant refers to the staff board of the prosecutor's office. And with regard to these specific prosecutors, who have specifically requested that they need a necessary prosecutor's seat on their sites, it goes to the first part of the text of our amendment, as we at least believe that there is a need for new prosecutor's office in Lugo, Santiago, Ourense, Vigo and Cambados, which are the ones the prosecutors themselves have been demanding since the year 2014 and that Galicia's own senior prosecutor has confirmed in his appearance this year and the year before. The second question of this non-law proposition is corruption, and as the spokesman for En Marea well said, Álvaro García Ortiz is a firm defender of the figure of an anti-corruption prosecutor in Galicia for many reasons. When one speaks to him, perhaps the most convincing is that this prosecutor would only give information to a prosecutor who would be his boss anti-corruption, he would not — let us say, to be elegant — territorial ties and so would be a little more free in his decisions. We believe that we must speak of an anti-corruption prosecutor who is a member of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, with an essential team to be able to work and with the institutional commitment, in this case of the Ministry of Justice, to put means to the service of the administration of Justice as a matter of priority. And in that line, precisely, it goes to point number 2 of our replacement amendment. What is asked is nothing difficult or strange or an occurrence, because in Valencia or Murcia there are anti-corruption taxes, so it wouldn't be anything new to Galicia. In Murcia we all know what's going on these days. The Punic case — as the spokesman for En Marea had previously said — came out at the lecture, and by the popular accusation he was asked to proceed against what was the president of Murcia and against Pilar Barreiro, who was Senator and Former Mayor of Cartagena. Not for anything. According to the popular accusation, there are sufficient indications to accuse the fraud president, bribery and disclosure of confidential information; and the former fraud senator, embezzlement of public caudas, bribery, continued prevarication, disclosure of confidential information and forgery of official document. There's nothing! This gentleman and this lady belong to a political party, to the same political party that you belong to the People's Party, and what we believe should not belong to the People's Party — we must not, we do not understand, should not belong to, is the Attorney-General of the State. But by the way, he's close to the People's Party and he's decided not to act against the president of Murcia because he understands that the public archives have not been harmed. Curiously, it does not coincide with the prosecutors in charge of the research they've been involved with, who think that, supposedly, this gentleman has drawn up a criminal plan to divert companies from their recipient's public funds from the Self-Education Council. But the Attorney General of the State doesn't think the same thing. We all know that it would quite upset the designation of the Attorney General of the State, and perhaps for that reason Torres Dulce, who is a highly educated and intelligent man, decided to leave them to you at the stake—the Government of Mariano Rajoy, who is of the same party as you—and decided not to remain the Attorney General of the State because he did not bear that pressure that you are accustomed to on the prosecutors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u251	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. In Galicia we have the so-called Champion case. By the way, the Legal Counsel of the Union does not agree with the Prosecutor's Office and decides not to charge or not to charge for two former charges of the People's Party and one former MP of the People's Party. Or the Pokémon operation, in which he is involved as the president of the Advisory Council investigated. They would certainly be more advanced if an anti-corruption prosecutor could deal exclusively with these matters, which go very slowly in his education, and would not violate the fundamental rights of the people involved, which we understand is the main one. Finished, President. We will vote in favour, but we hope our amendments will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u253	I have to say that it seemed regrettable to me the spectacle that the People's Party gave throughout today in this Parliament. By the way, he draws attention to the fact that at this late afternoon, the benches of the Popular Group are full, usually not like that. [[Applause]] It would be that they had to participate now in a brittle for the media. [[Applause]] This contradicted some decisions you've made recently. I thought they'd changed the cage by the albatross, and that meant the inauguration of a new political time, but you're going back to the practices of the low-flight cage and its food techniques, in this case transferred to the political field. [[Laughter]] In the matter, which has a lot to do with this, in any case, the BNG will not support this initiative. And it will not support it, not by the specific question of the possible kindnesses that this proposal may have, but because we believe that it is part of a deeper debate that we are interested in, in addition, bringing here; a debate on the judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office, both historically and at present. And this is not a comparative policy, it is an ongoing policy, a continuous policy, from franchise to the second boronic restoration. That's what this is about. So we want to talk from the historical point of view of the role that these institutions played and continue to play in the survival and impunity of the structures of Frankish power, because the reality is that in the judicial power there was no transition, there was no transition. The same members of the courts of public order of frankism then continued to camp in the boronic restoration, occupying positions such as, for example, in the National Court — which, by the way, was the replacement of the courts of public order — and then in the Supreme Court. This explains, for example, on many occasions, the positions regarding dictatorship or monarchy, which have been and are untouchable institutions for forty years and still at present, as we have seen recently. In case this was little, in recent times, at present, we have even more reason for distrust and discredit of judicial power. For example, everything that has to do with the role of the Prosecutor's office as a government transmission belt, of which we have had multiple examples in recent years. The shameful use of the police in the service of the Government to pursue, to spy, to produce evidence against certain political options; by the way, political options disturbing the regime. Or the role of the Prosecutor's Office in the major cases of corruption that have occurred in recent times; and when he doesn't, it turns out they're purging the prosecutors who refuse to be servants, obedient and submissive. We have many recent examples of that role of the Judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office, such as that benevolent judgment which the Supreme Court itself has qualified as a demand. Look, the Supreme Court qualifies as demanding the judgement of the directors of the Greek boxes, the judgments to Rat, for example, or the Blessing for stealing full hands, which cannot be said otherwise. Or the sentence of the Noos case, for example. By the way, sentence of the case No. we consider it late but it did not come well, and we did not share it at all. So the feeling that there is in a large part of the people is that there is a justice for the rich and a justice for people who have less resources or who have no resources; and in recent times, in addition, there has been a great involution in this sense. So we see how you are systematically using the judiciary and the state apparatus to pursue democratic rights. We live in a reality, therefore scandalous, that puts every day of manifesto with all these events, with all these scandals, the crisis of the political and economic system, and also the crisis of the constitutional monarchy regime of the second borbonic restoration. We are constantly attending public and notorious cases of corruption, in the face of a feeling of passivity, of permissibility, of convivence and political use of courts of justice, especially of the high courts of the State and the Constitutional Court. With regard to the initiative, we believe that it presupposes or presupposes excessive confidence in the goodness of the judiciary, in supposed magic solutions and in the creation of standards and instruments for reforming a system and a regime that we understand is intrinsically cruel, corrupt and unjust. So we think that the best way to fight it is not reformism, the best way to fight it is to radically transform it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u254	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Santos, you missed an opportunity to apologize. [[Applause]] So far we had a match in Galicia that was dedicated to giving Greek meats. Now he broke into Galicia's political scene a party that gives the flesh of guilty and innocent. There is a need for more judges in the courts and fewer judges judging from the seats, ladies and gentlemen, much less. [[Applause]] It doesn't matter if the case is filed by justice. It doesn't matter if the Prosecutor's Office asks for your file. It all depends on the media and political trial, and nothing has been done or not according to law. We can find ourselves in the case that the prosecutor asks for the file and they demonstrate that it's in the service of the government. We may find that the prosecutor is asking to continue and the judge is asking for the file, but the judge is also in the service of the Government. We can also find out which prosecutor and judge are asking for the file, and it's filed, but the guilt for this group also exists, however. But there's also a case where the prosecutor and judge are asking for further investigation and reinventing the Criminal Code with new legal forms such as laudable prevarication. Mrs. Santos, look, the law that allows us to charge political parties with the People's Party with voting against the entire left side of this country; that is the reality. [[Applause]] You are presenting an initiative requesting the creation of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office. Well, look, the Popular Parliamentary Group does not share this need because technically the ratio of cases in Galicia does not justify the creation of an anti-corruption prosecutorial. All the general prosecutors of the state, under different governments of different political colors in Spain, said that this ratio was not covered in Galicia. So if you don't cover the legally required ratio to create an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, it's not a decision either by the People's Party or by the Government. If the Prosecutor's Office requests the establishment of this specialized prosecutor's office, there is no doubt that the People's Parliamentary Group will support this creation, and I am also sure that it will support it. But you insist on creating that prosecutor's office to generate the appearance that there is corruption. Corruption is horizontal, Your Honor, it affects all political parties, even the Tides of Podemos. We can talk about Mr. Errejón's black scholarship, which was disabled by charging without going to university; family contracts and nepotism of Mrs. Tania Sánchez, Mrs. Colau, Mrs. Carmen... and so we could say many more. The floors of public protection of Mr. Pablo Iglesias or Mr. Espinar; apartments with which he did business, assisted without a contest. Mr. Monedero's B reports. And what touches us most closely, Mr. Duarte's laudable prevarication. Not to mention the accusation of the mayor of Santiago de Compostela, gentlemen. [[Applause]] But look, it's also corruption to fight freedom of expression with threats, and we should also pursue harassment against journalists. Whoever coined the new juridical-delictive concept of laudable prevarication, has just shown the worst face of corruption: ethical corruption. Dussel, Mrs. Santos, said ethics is the only incorruptible. For Mrs. Santos has just shown that no, that ethical corruption is possible. The populists feel that it is lawful to do what they want to do, to say what it looks like, and that this has no consequences. They believe that everything is good and that everything is ethical, even if the most basic rules of coexistence are contradicted and even if there is a contradiction to the prevailing legislation, because, as they have said, the laws that they do not like are to fail to comply with them. That's his philosophy. Look, Mrs. Santos, you can't speak on behalf of all the women in Galicia because you don't represent me when you say that my partymates are women's killers, because I don't live with murderers, I'm no accomplice to any crime of gender violence. [[Applause]] My entire career and political trajectory is presided over by the defense of equality, the defense of women and the defense of combating gender-based violence. You can't say I'm complicit in gender-based violence because my colleagues don't murder women victims of gender-based violence. You're lucky that parliamentary courtesy doesn't allow me to say what I think of you. But look, Mrs. Santos, you just said something very serious here. You have just defended Mr. Bodalo here. Do you know that one of Mr. Bodal's background is the assault of a pregnant woman? Well, along with this weekend, you can't afford to talk about equality, defend women, and go to those feminist marches that warm your mouth to put on the tweets and barbaries that you say after those marches. [[Protests.]] You don't need to rule to suffer wear, your deterioration is ethical. Even their voters are tired of their struggles and knives, of their fights for personalisms, of their cynical lies and of their modulated speeches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u257	Yes, ethics will be your executioner. There will come a moment when those moral reserves that you think you only have, and they assumed as yours, fall by their own weight, by the weight of ethical corruption, of lies, of cynicism. Because people also want proposals that solve their problems, that we propose reforms that society needs. They lack ethics and they just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u259	...irreverent attitudes. Of the ten Members of En Marea who spoke today, not one, Mrs. Santos, defended their position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u261	Only Mr Bará, surprisingly — I suppose it will be because he wants the support of En Marea for Pontevedra —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u262	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u263	...he came out to defend you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u264	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u265	You've been in Parliament for four months, and the only thing you do... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u267	...each time he speaks is to degrade political activity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u269	And far from making proposals that improve women's lives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u271	...you insult...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u272	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u273	...injuriousness and rudeness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u275	Be useful, Mrs. Santos. Apologize. It's still in time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u276	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u277	Of course, we didn't expect anything else. [[Murmurs.]] First of all — we're not going to have more fun — thank you for supporting the PSdeG; we accept your amendments, without a problem. We feel the position of the Galego Nationalist Block, although we respect all opinions, but we would like you to support this proposal, the truth. And thank you also for the initial words. What is clear is that here we continue to do more than ever before, and here we have just seen him with respect to the People's Party as well. We didn't expect them to back him up, honestly. We had a minimum of hope, but the truth is, it was obvious what was going to happen. Because one thing is to say one thing, but later facts show just the opposite. They show very little that they really care about the fight against corruption, take concrete measures and show the real political will to give a solution to something, as much as they try to hide — as they usually do — cases supposedly isolated within the People's Party in places where they rule... Indeed, they don't need to argue anything else, because unfortunately in this country, as we are seeing constantly, newspapers, the media and what the judges say... They don't like prosecutors so much, especially those who investigate them. We had nothing more to do with what happened last week with respect to the cessation of all prosecutors investigating cases in which they were accused of corruption-related causes. So they're very concerned about the freedom of expression of people with the things they don't share; that's what's important, that's why we have to penalize it, demonize it-- cases of corruption don't exist, corruption doesn't exist, everything is inside our imagination. It's rather curious that they have this position and then they talk about that we make judgments of value and opinion. I don't know what we saw here a moment ago, we must also imagine the parallel trial that Mrs Prado has just done. What is very easy is having headlines like today's, the new leader of the New Youths, who says textually that "the PP must be implacable with corruption to approach the young and young people," and at the same time we know the news that in Castela-Leon the president of their courts, of the PP—it is today's news, of a national nature— it has spent more than 700,000 euros on advertising and reporting in 2016, and in so important and so little superfluous things as luxury coffeemakers and vexels. Corruption, they don't seem to exist. What's clear is that fair justice doesn't seem to exist much about these issues either, or it's the perception that we all have, or it should also be the product of our imagination. The judges themselves are those who complain that there is no separation of powers many times, that they are under pressure, that there is a pact of the great coalition to renew the Constitutional Court. However, the citizen pressure works, as in the manifestations of Murcia, because we see that citizenship is against the fact that judges are separated by political issues. It's a pity they don't support this, that they really show with a little gesture, instead of doing the paripé and the show here, that they're really dedicated to approving things that directly affect people, and with that money they would directly focus on their well-being, on multiple facets of employment and the welfare state; but they still do. So I end up with the words of Joaquim Bosch, the spokesman for Justice for Democracy, who says, "May the court that must judge cases of enormous relevance to which a very important percentage of his time pursues tweets and jokes more or less unfortunate, says enough of the backwardness of freedoms that we are living." Of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u279	...from the Tide Group we will continue to work and fight without any fear of this changing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-07-DSPG019.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Exhausted from the agenda, we suspended the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
