ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. Let's start with point 1 of the agenda. Election of a member of the Social Council of the University of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u2	Since it is a vote by election in the ballot box, I would like to ask the House services to hand over their ballot papers. And the explanation for the procedure is that, in view of the fact that the Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 13 June 2017, was informed of the vacancy as a member of the Social Council of the University of Coruna de Don Luís Felipe Llamas López for resignation, which was elected by this House at its plenary session on 12 July 2016 by the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, pursuant to Article 79 of Law 6/2013, of 13 June, of the Galician University System, a person must be elected to fill the vacancy. Subsequently, the Bureau, on September 19, 2017, after the hearing at the Speaker's Board, agreed to open the deadline for the formalization of nominations. After the deadline, the Bureau, at its meeting on 25 September, was informed of the proposal made, which it communicated to the parliamentary groups. [[Murmurs.]] Silence, please!, that if you don't, you don't know what you're going to vote for. The election, in accordance with Article 91 1.2 and (2) of the Galician Parliament's Regulation, shall be secreted by means of papers and alphabetical order. The vote shall be taken by inserting into the ballot box the paper previously delivered by the services in the Chamber, in which the name of the proposed candidate shall be marked with a quotation mark in the box. Empty votes will be considered if no box is marked. No vote will be considered when the names of other persons or other signs are written. When the vote is taken, the candidate will be declared elected if he gets a simple majority. I suppose you all already have the paper. If they're split up, we'll start the alphabetically called vote by the Bureau's secretary. First I ask the vice president first and the vice-secretary to take the ballot box. Whenever you wish, Madam Secretary, to call on the honourable Members to vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u3	Yes, thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u4	Thank you. I believe that all Members and Members have voted, and we therefore proceed to the report.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u5	The result is: votes cast, 67; votes in favour of Mr José Ramón Louzao Cabo, 50; votes blank, 17. This is the result, therefore, there is a simple majority and it is called a member of the Social Council of the University of Coruña to Mr. José Ramón Louzao Cabo. We're still on the agenda. Legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u6	This debate continues to be amended by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group. The president of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Mr Jaime Castineira Broz, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u7	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The draft pet welfare law in Galicia was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 20 April 2017, and its admission to the proceedings was carried out by the Parliamentary Bureau at its meeting on 24 April, opening the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 13 May and 1 June 2017 for amendments to the whole and the articulated respectively. In particular, the amendment to the full refund submitted by the Galician Socialist Group was rejected at the plenary meeting on 6 June 2017. For its part, the amendments to the articulation presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of 175:30 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 53 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 80 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and 12 of the People's Parliamentary Group. Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 14 June, designated the presentation to prepare the report, which was formed on 20 June with the assistance of this presidency and the rapporteur and the rapporteurs: Mr Gonzalo Trenor López, of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia; Mr Francisco Casal Vidal, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea; Ms Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia and Mr Luis Bará Torres, of the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block. At the following six meetings, the report was prepared with the final recommendations, which were issued on 12 July. Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 7 September, adopted the opinion that I am presenting with 7 votes in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions, in accordance with the recommendations of the report of the motion, incorporating into the text of the draft law, in addition to the technical amendments proposed by the motion, 73 amendments: 12 of the People's Parliamentary Group, 29 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, 23 of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia and 9 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Following the withdrawal of 38 amendments, the 64 amendments rejected by the committee are kept for discussion at this plenary session. This bill for the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia consists, in addition to the explanatory statement, of 49 articles grouped into 8 titles; and its final part consists of 4 additional provisions, 4 transitional provisions, 1 derogation provision and 2 final items. We must complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the bill for the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia. Before I finish, I would like to thank and stress the work done by the rapporteur and the rapporteurs who participated in this elaboration of the dictatorship, as well as thank the work for the services of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u8	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. We begin with the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u9	Good morning. First of all, I would like, on behalf of the BNG, to express the recognition and gratitude to all the people and groups who have brought together, amends and proposals, especially to the animal groups and to the protectors, who have done — we understand — an enormous task of review, criticism and drafting alternative texts. Thanks to the BNG, and I think that from all the groups, because these entities are the best acquaintances of this reality, and the truth is, they've greatly facilitated our work. We are also convinced that the greatest wealth that society has is precisely to have engaged people, generous people, solidarity people, altruists, people who move in this case because of love for animals and in defense of the common good. These demands of associationism were in many cases channelled by political groups, and a part of them were taken into account and incorporated into the final text of the presentation. Secondly, I would also like to make a reference, a recognition, to the work of this presentation, which seemed to me a productive work, with a constructive spirit and a willingness to agree on many topics and on many aspects that allowed a substantial improvement in the text of the law on the initial document. This work of the presentation, however, also highlighted precisely all the shortcomings, shortcomings and deficits of participation and public information throughout the previous process, which I think leaves much to be desired in the sense that there was a certain impairment in the work of associations, which could have been taken more into account precisely to prevent that debate from taking place until an already final moment of the study and the proposal. The reality is that, contrary to what the original text said, there was no work of consultation and consensus with the main animal and ecological protection associations, and there was not enough work of participation, debate, information and positioning in the Galego Council for the Protection of Domestic Animals and Wildlings in Cativity, which, contrary to what was said, did not report this document; and that gave rise to this cry against, the multitude of amendments and allegations presented by the entire animalistic and protective movement. And it wasn't a lack of time, because it really spent more than a year since the Government of the text was approved to Parliament, and there was enough time to do that pre-participation and public information work, which is that, of course, at the last hour, the advisor has been in a hurry, he has to present his balance because he's already in his head in the electoral career, in his career to be a candidate in the Coruña, and he has to pass a few laws and try to put in place that strategy against climate change and some announcements to the gallery to present some balance, because the truth is that at the moment there's not a lot of balance. Well, still acknowledging... Does Mr. Tellado have anything to say? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ah! [[Murmurs.]] While recognizing that the text is, of course, significantly better, especially in the section of generic prohibitions and sanctions, BNG still has deep discrepancies in central aspects that do not allow us to endorse this law, and the main reason for discrepancy is the exclusion of the scope of this rule of animal torture shows, and I specifically refer to bullfighting, bullfighting, which is the subject of an amendment on our part, Amendment No 3. I want to remind you, if you don't know him, that the People's Party seems to even want to get UNESCO's recognition of bullfighting. According to UNESCO, bullfighting is the infamous and commercialized art of torture and killing animals in public. I don't think UNESCO is very willing, with this statement, to give the category of international intangible heritage to this art of abuse and animal torture. The fact that they keep these practices and these shows goes into open contradiction to the generic prohibitions, for example, of Title I, that they talk about the use of animals in fighting, parties, shows or any other activity that leads to ill-treatment, cruelty or suffering, that can be applied point-by-point, and we'll still stay short, to the tourdas. It's the spectacle of torture and animal abuse for antonomasis; a cruel spectacle, which has no tradition in Galicia, as it does in the most advanced countries in Europe. That's why we think it's a provocation and an exaggeration that the councillor here, in parliamentary headquarters, tells us that it's the most advanced law in Europe and that the spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr Trenor, says it's the state's most advanced law. Look, we do not want to give you lessons in Europeanism, but in this case we can give you from the BNG — the nationalists of Greece — lessons in Europeanism, because at this and many others we are on the side of those countries and societies that defend civilized and own behaviours of advanced societies, of modern societies, such as Europeans, who do not understand these kinds of practices. It is therefore incomprehensible that a law of protection and animal welfare allows these acts of extreme cruelty, and here I believe that they show a lack of courage and above all autonomy to address this issue, because you, of course, have the chip, the automatism of obedience to Madrid, as Madrid says. Other communities did have courage and ability to regulate and order this issue, because they have no tradition, they are different cultures, different cultures, as did Catalonia, as did the Canary Islands or how they have just done Balearics recently. I know that you have here the weapon of mass destruction which is the Constitutional Court to eliminate, to liquidate, all these laws that go against the doctrine of the sole thought of the People's Party, which wants to impose throughout the State its unitary, centralist and ravine vision of Spanishism, as in this case. The BNG, therefore, will not endorse this question by this uniformizing will. Because, besides, you don't have enough of that, you don't have enough of the Constitutional Court, which even passed laws to protect the tourdas, the bullomacy, to impose it throughout the state, like the 2013 Law of Tauromacy as a cultural heritage—it's a trick to call the Tauromacy cultural heritage—or the 2015 Law to safeguard the intangible cultural heritage. It is the will, I say, of the imposition of a cultural model other than our country, which basically supports more than 10% of the population of Greece — there are more than 85% against the tournaises — and which is attended by 0.3% of the population. Of course, some who sit on those benches are rather common to the towers. They act with absolute and complete coherence; in any case, with absolute and complete submission to Madrid, and in addition they will be pampered every summer in the Peregrine tours, which is a kind of exhibitionist passerby, now without queen of the parties, fortunately, since in 1999 the BNG suppressed this classist figure, this sexist figure and this franchise figure — which I don't know if they knew what it was dedicated to; among other things, it was devoted, among other things, to sharing the pures and liqueurs on the stage of the authorities; this figure no longer exists. And he said they were peddling, and here they are: Mr. Rajoy — the larger plane — Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Rueda and also such a Louzan, who will no longer be; from now on he will no longer be because he fell in disgrace, he is accused. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a photograph.]] [[Murmurs.]] There also appeared another defendant, Mr. Pachi Lucas, also usual of this stage shared with the highest leaders of the People's Party. You are perfectly consistent, because you are the promoters, sponsors, and the usual stages of this cruel and absolutely barbaric spectacle as you attend every year at the parties of Peregrine. And it's not just bull races, you're also trying to promote other kind of Taurine shows in the municipalities where they rule. We just saw him recently in the case of Valga and in the case of Moraña, even with shows not authorized by the Administration and those who attended the Mayor of Moraña. In addition to this question, we have other reasons for discrepancy, other amendments, such as what has to do with animals in circuses. This question is not solved properly. We are in favour of expressly forbidding any use of any animal, whether wild or pet, in circuses, of all animals; just as we must ensure the protection of animals so that they stop participating in circus shows. In that sense, we have made proposals which we hope will also be dealt with closely in Parliament as regards the need to regulate animal sanctuaries by means of a rule, and we will bring this subject to debate in close proximity to Parliament. Just as we ask that animal shows be expressly forbidden, such as dove shooting. Of course, you don't want to introduce it because you're on another line, in another direction. They have just signed an agreement with the Galician Hunting Federation worth 25,000 euros, where among other issues they introduce as a novelty the promotion of hunting among young people, among those under 30 years of age, and even organized a youth hunt meeting. This is your policy on this issue. Just as we proposed — and did not accept — the identification of pets, not only in the cases of canyons, but also cats, cats and ferrets. It seems to us that this is a positive measure for the prevention of abandonment, and also for health reasons. There are other communities, some of them governed by the People's Party, which have already approved this measure. It also seems to us that the question of euthanasia and sacrifice is not well resolved. There's an intentionally ambiguous wording to open too many possibilities of applying the sacrifice in cases that we don't think are necessary. It also seems to us that the vision they have of the functions of the Advisory Committee for Animal Protection, which is a very restrictive vision, remains very short. It has a very bureaucratic composition and it lacks functions, especially control, evaluation, follow-up and proposal formulation, so that the Government can move forward in these policies. That should be the function of this council. It also seems to us that the treatment given to associations, the lack of real recognition and the important work done by associations is insufficient, which are often meeting the obligations and responsibilities of administrations, and which, if they stopped doing that work, of course, would be very big. Therefore, much more should be committed to the law's text with support measures, aid measures, including the annual call for grants for these types of associations. And I don't want to end this intervention without mentioning a case of animal abuse that seems to me to have a lot of international impact, the Piolin case. [[Mr. Bará Torres shows a drawing.]] Leave Piolin alone, don't do that to Piolin, because it's a real shame within that spook, of that real spooky expectation that this animal is being used in that campaign of harassment, of repression with the democratic will of the people of Catalonia, of making a referendum of self-determination and of expressing the free will of its people. [[Applause]] It's an unstoppable process, and for a lot of police, for a lot of prosecution, for a lot of repression, they won't be able to stop it. [[Laughter]] But, invoking animal welfare, don't do this to Piolin. I'm done. Ghandi said that the greatness of a country and its moral progress can be judged by the way animals treat animals. And in this area, we have a lot to move on. I recognize that progress is being made with this law, that it is progressing in some matters, but there is still to be progress on all these issues that I have just mentioned, especially those that have to do with those cruel spectacles of ill-treatment, cruelty and suffering of animals, which we cannot afford. We have fundamental discrepancies, we have principles that seem irrevocable to us and, because of the coherence with which we have been defending all our lives and also with the agreements that have already been adopted in parliaments and municipalities, governed or co-governed by the BNG and other municipalities, we cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning. There's an image of a National Geographic photographer named Michael Nichols. There comes a hand out of a primate and next to it, with his head down, the primate caressed the hair of the famous chimpanzee defender, who is Jane Goodall. This image shows that animals are living beings who feel exactly like us, and today this should serve to recapitate us a little bit about this law, about this bill of protection and welfare of pets in Galicia that the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group propose to us. Jane Goodall once said: what should we think of in these non-human beings but possess many human-like characteristics? —he asked—and she herself replied: of course, we must treat them with the same consideration and kindness as humans. Unfortunately, the members of the People's Party's Government do not think exactly as Jane Goodall; precisely for this reason they may never take the Prince of Asturias Prize, which brought this woman. The Director General of Emergency said on the other day in Commission 1st, speaking of the Bill of Shows, of Public Shows—literally—: "The German Government respects the right of all people to choose consumer shows." We assume that these consumer shows are the tourdas, and within that freedom of the market defended by the People's Party is also the death of these bulls, which, by the way, neither deserve our consideration nor our kindness. They will not access — as the Director General of Emergency told us — to bull markets children under 12 — whether they are 12 years old and 3 days old or 1 day old, and that's what he's saying: the government is against animal abuse. Well, we're much calmer. Thank you, General Emergency Director. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we think that a very good work has been done in Commission 2nd and we want to thank the House's Legal Service — personnel in the lawyer who is in this House today — for they have made our work easier for all the groups. The truth is that it was done a good job because the bill that had entered before the committee, before it went through the work of the parliamentary groups, was much worse than this one we have today and that we are debating today, among other things, because it wasn't pursuing zero abandonment or the fight against abuse, actually. Today's text has been improved by the groups at its own time. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to its entirety. We were the only group that introduced this amendment because we realized that the text was very, very, very improved, and in fact it was improved. It is good that we have worked with the parliamentary groups, but it has been mainly improved by the work of animal associations, animal protectors and all those people who, as we say — and say among ourselves — come down to the mud every day and work every day with the animals. We simply collect the nearness that these people who work with animals make daily at their work, that phrase by Jane Goodall to consider that animals deserve the same kindness as humans. In addition to the arrivals we received through e-mails, apps, personal calls, there were many people coming directly to the Galician Parliament, through the Parliament's participation website, which, curiously, in a ninety-one percent, made reference that you did not maintain the exclusion of bulls within this bill. You see they didn't serve too much. All right, because this project has brought civil society and the parliamentary groups of this House together into the same place, which is the text that has come to us here today. In line with our amendment to the whole, we present 53 partial amendments, and they remain alive, after the commission work, 20. The spirit was good, but the Government remains unmovable in some matters that to us are essential for change. Let's keep those twenty amendments, we're consistent with our amendment to the whole. I can only speak of some, not of all, but these amendments will explain the meaning of our vote, which is already going to be contrary to this bill that brings us to President Feijó's Government. The first of this amendment is that we think the title of the bill itself is too small, it refers to pets, it is even smaller than that law of 1993, which referred to domestic animals. A dog is a pet and a horse is a domestic animal; therefore, it is broader the concept of domestic than the concept of pet. And there are other autonomous communities that have adopted this broader denomination, such as Balearics, for example, and we believe that this is much more correct. In February the Congress of Deputies unanimously adopted a non-law proposal to reform the Civil Code, unanimously, and that animals no longer be objects, could not be appropriate by the State through any kind of expropriation, because they are — and so emphasized by the Congress of Deputies — living beings who feel, collecting all the information of the veterinarians, collecting international legislation and even what the Spanish courts say. For it turns out that for this bill there are several animals that neither feel nor are living beings: bulls are expressly excluded, as I said before, and animals used in any Taurine show, including closures. That's why the bulls say bulls are noble animals, and perhaps being noble means not to be alive nor to be sentient. There's one of the contributions to this Lexisla with us from Parliament, a woman named Pilar Villegas, who expressly says: "It can't be defended that animals are not objects and at the same time allow the torture of these living beings in bull races." It's very difficult to explain better what we mean from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you can't say much more. The touradas have no tradition in our autonomous community, there is a single bull market, unfortunately it is in Pontevedra — and I regrettably say because I live there — and in August, every August, for every feast of Peregrina, there is a demonstration in Pontevedra against the tourdas. Every year we're more. Many years ago, when I started, there were very few of us, there are now hundreds of people going out in the street asking to stop the tours in our autonomous community. It would be nice if at one time some of you were that day and, before you went to the Peregrine dance, they also came to that demonstration. [[Applause]] This law also excludes horses, horses. It's going to be very hard to punish them if they hit them. Excludes domestic animals from circuses. Today there are more than 74,000 companies asking to withdraw use, the placement of circuses that use all kinds of animals in our autonomous community. The use of wild animals was prohibited, which was a wildling. To think of an elephant, or of a bear, or of a tiger, or of a lion put in a dwarf cage simply crushes the heart of anyone who takes that picture in his head. But what about dogs? That they're still in the circuses, for example, they're still allowed in these shows. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we request not their prohibition of use, of entry, but an evaluation observatory which, for a year, analyses the state, the well-being of these animals. We don't understand why you're opposed. We don't understand, either, in the same line, why do you object to expressly picking up the firearm, sanctioning the firearm; perhaps because there are hidden things. Another amendment is that euthanasia is deliberately confused with sacrifice. Euthanasia is the death caused by a planned animal, prescribed by a professional for reasons of irreversible, severe suffering, irreversible situations in animals which cannot — or cannot — be treated; but not for reasons of safety of persons. That's not euthanasia, that's sacrifice, and this bill continues to confuse those two issues. As I said before, if one of the ends of the law was the persecution of ill-treatment, which is clear that it has not been achieved, another of which was said to be the struggle against abandonment. You saw the counselor here and you were here presenting this project and so you told us. Well, it's hardly going to happen if you don't identify all the animals you call company, not just the dogs. The same can be said of the feline colonies. You want them to continue to be voluntary, not compulsory, for the municipalities, and according to the conditions that will be in a regulation, that will not come to this House, and in which, therefore, we will not be able to participate neither the parliamentary groups nor those people who are up there who work every day with the animals. You're going to do it, exclusively, with what the technicians say, but only you. And besides, it doesn't even even collect possible collaboration through agreements with animal welfare entities and associations, which today are the ones in charge of the feline colonies, precisely. You know that one of the basic principles that the Socialist Party has recorded in its heart is the principle of equality between women and men. This principle of equality falls into this bill. There is only one body, the Advisory Committee on Animal Protection, and, as always, the Advisory Committee does not specifically collect itself, which respects the principle of balanced composition of women and men. Thanks to our approach, the wording has varied, — in article 31 of the bill — and now reference is made to seeking respect for this principle of balanced presence. We want it to be said expressly that we respect the principle of balanced presence, because then what happens: women are never on advisory committees, in any kind of body that is responsible for informing and advising the Government, and, when we are, we are always minority, when we just need to see the people who are up there: most people who work with animals, day by day, are women. [[Applause]] Finally, article 49 was introduced by the Government on its day as a star measure: publicity would be given to sanctions and their perpetrators; of fundamental rights we would talk about the other day. Thanks to our approach, our amendment, we have achieved an improvement in the text of the article. There are more specific circumstances, and sanctions have to be firm on the legal basis, not administratively. But we understand that we still do not meet all the requirements that the Constitutional Court had stated in its famous judgement 292 of the year 2000. So we keep alive the twenty amendments that we're talking about in the commission, and we hope that you will have in your memory that image of the hand of the primate and the hair of the woman, which comforted us with all the living beings that we live on this planet, and that you will accept some of the amendments that we tabled from the opposition parliamentary groups. Of course, from our point of view, if they don't accept any of our amendments, which we consider to be fundamental, our vote will be against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. We are here today on a day that could be historic, before the debate of a law that justifies and dignifies the meaning of our work. This law doesn't go from ideology and affects the deepest of human condition. That's why all the great thinkers of humanity, from Newton to Einstein, through Lord Byron or Gandhi, left phrases for history in defense of animal rights. One of the most well known has already been quoted, is that of Gandhi, that the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated. But to me the truth is more like another one, also Gandhi: "I believe that the more defenseless a more right creature is to be protected by man against man's cruelty." And that is our responsibility and duty here in Parliament today: to protect feelings that cannot defend themselves; if we do not, humanity and history will demand it. The main objectives of this law should be: the comprehensive protection of animal welfare, both physical and psychological and ethnological; the eradication of animal abuse; the protection of the most sacred right as is that of life; the real establishment of zero sacrifice; laying the foundations for the eradication of animal abandonment; and constantly avoiding the mercantillization of animal suffering. It is true that there has been a lot of honest and loyal debate in the drafting of the bill, and it is to thank the rapporteur, Mr Trenor, for the majority group of the People's Party. Many transactions and acceptance of amendments to the opposition and to this group of En Marea have been reached, but the analysis cannot be made to the weight of whether a high or low number of proposals has been met. The most important and most important objectives listed above were included and, unfortunately, they were not. But we are still in time during this full of reflection and acceptance by the majority group of essential changes so that, indeed, this is a great law from which we feel satisfied. Even if it wasn't the law we would introduce, it would be a real step forward. In Marea he has renounced many essential themes of our early eighty amendments to this law, in order to achieve essential and necessary progress. For example, we accept things we don't agree with, but they've been killed. There are many issues that we radically rejected in the way they were described in the law, but still, in order to achieve other perhaps more fundamental themes, which were later not collected, we accepted killings such as, for example, what marks the ban on the collection of abandoned animals by citizens. We have not accepted our proposal to allow it with certain obligations and we agree that the prohibition with exceptions has been maintained, with the exceptions being drafted in this way: "Exceptively, in emergency situations that may compromise the welfare of animals, citizens and citizens may carry out the collection on a timely and uninterested basis of a wandering or extravagant animal until their final delivery or at the disposal of the authorized collection centre which the competent authority determines." This wording does not fully satisfy our demands, but, given that an abandoned or wandering animal is always in a state of emergency, it could be acceptable in the interests of consensus in other points which we consider essential, as long as it is clear that an abandoned or wandering animal is always in an emergency situation. We also consider that the place at the disposal of the reception centre should be understood as an informational communication, that it should not involve the delivery of the animal, and that it may remain in a foster home, where it will be in many better conditions until it is returned to its owner or given in adoption. The same could be said of the ban on wild animals on the street. Our proposal was the total abolition of this prohibition, but we also accept, for the sake of consensus, its modulation, allowing it in cases where animal welfare is in danger, and as the law itself says, if food is considered essential for animal welfare; and hence food would be allowed in a regulated and hygienic manner, which will have to be specified in the municipal ordinances that must emanate from this law. We have made all these concessions, which have led us to a lot of debate with protectors and animal associations, in the idea of getting the approval of other amendments that we consider to have a radical impact on the well-being and also on the life of animals. All these amendments are reflected in the thirty that we keep open right now here in the full. The truth is, we would like not to have to vote against this law, and for that we could also give up the part of those thirty amendments, leaving them for a new law proposed by a new government led by En Marea. But there are eight essentials for this law to actually meet the objectives that I have set at the beginning of this intervention, which are the following, and for which we would also ask for a separate vote. Amendment No 3 to delete paragraph 1 which states that the equivalents of the protection of this law should be deleted from the text. The People's Party argues that they already have their own rules, but if anyone is willing to read those rules, they'll see that there's only one point of four lines that refers to animal protection. And this animal protection shines totally by the absence and leaves them totally helpless. We've had these past few days a tremendous case of how this regulation doesn't protect the equidae. A horse, which later we were baptized as "Triumph," had been with a totally open, cut and folded leg in the mountains of Barba, and had been wandering the mountain in a terrible situation for two weeks. The animal-protective associations were located, told Seprona and the Civil Guard and Seprona and the Civil Guard that they could not do anything, because the law does not allow anyone to intervene in situations of such gravity yet if the owner disagrees. The horse, above, was unidentified, with which the owner's location was very complex. Finally, two weeks later, after the horse had been wandering through the mountains of Barba in a terrible situation, it was located the owner, who authorized the assignment to a protector. The protector took the horse, carried it by his means, without any help, to a horse sanctuary. They gave him all his attention, and when he was recovering from the infection he had developed during those four weeks, when, however, the wound, despite being very important, was fully recoverable, as the vets said, the animal finally died a week ago because precisely because it was impossible to apply a real protection law, which could not be applied from the beginning and that the action of the forces of public order, Seprona, could be effective. This is a blatant case and it could not be done because the law did not allow it. We also amend the exclusion of bulls from the protection of this law. I won't extend much, because my colleagues in the other groups have already done so, but it is truly surprising that the People's Party in Galicia defends this case of such extreme ill-treatment and cruelty. It has no justification anywhere, but much less in our country, where the supporters of this evil party are an absolutely irrelevant minority of citizenship. Then, the amendments to actually get the zero sacrifice, because this law, as drafted, is not of zero sacrifice. And for us this is the absolutely fundamental point of the changes that we think need to develop. Amendment No 9 speaks of what is the definition of euthanasia, the definition of euthanasia that includes the law, because the law first speaks of sacrifice and the generic prohibitions forbid sacrifice. But in the definition of euthanasia opens up the possibility of something that is sacrifice and that is not euthanasia. Everyone knows what euthanasia is: it is to provoke death by a professional voluntarily in order to avoid severe and irremediable suffering or serious condition. And it has nothing to do with matters of public health, animal health or people's safety, as is also stated in the generic prohibition. I mean, if this is included as euthanasia, in any sugarcane they can continue to kill animals claiming animal welfare problems, and, of course, overpopulation is a problem of animal welfare. Because if this is included in the definition of euthanasia, massive deaths will continue to occur in the barrels, and we cannot afford it. And no one, neither the advisor nor the People's Party, nor any of the opposition parties, can say that we are proud that finally in Galicia the zero sacrifice has arrived. It'll be impossible. Amendment 32 is the same subject, but within the generic prohibitions. Then, Amendment No 30 to paragraph 10a, where we establish a thorough control of the females used for breeding. It's one of the most bloody situations of animal abuse. I'm not going to read the whole amendment, because it's very long, but it basically defines that there must be minimum periods between two children, appropriate intervals, a comprehensive veterinary check both physically and psychologically and ethically, and finally, when the female cannot continue to create, it will be destined for a center to enable her adoption or reception. Amendment No 50: The autonomous administration is obliged to call for annual economic aid within the budgetary possibilities for financing the activities of animal protection and defence associations — which today accompany us and to whom I thank you for being here to attend the debate. It would be the real way to ensure non-marketing of abandonment and animal suffering. The protectors are the real guarantor of this law being truly effective and fulfilling its purpose. Leaving the management of abandonment in the hands of mercenized sugarcane would be tragic and would, for example, prevent massive collaboration of volunteers, as it is happening at the moment, where they are not allowed to collaborate in most of the sugarcane, I'm sure to avoid having uncomfortable testimony to the practices that are developed there. Amendment 79, addendum. A new provision must be added: "Additional fourth provision: economic allocation to the municipalities. The Council of Galicia shall have budgetary shares in the budgets in order to finance its actions and those of the municipalities, in such a way that they can carry out the provisions laid down in each and every of the articles of this law and in particular Articles 15.4, 22, 26, 29.4 and 34.6 and more of the additional provision fifth." A law without economic endowment is wet paper, it is to leave all budgetary responsibility in the municipalities and condemn it to its lack of application. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not make laws just to get out in the headlines of the friendly press, and even in this case, where the well-being and even the life of members of our families is at stake. Imagine all those who share their lives with fellow animals called non-rational ones who miss them in a municipality without the capacity to apply this law and who, arguing overcrowding in the quarry, sacrifice it. Just imagine for a moment. Because the question is not whether they can reason or speak, but whether they can suffer. And finally, Amendment No 80, adding a transitional provision for the establishment of an assessment observatory for the use of domestic animals in circuses, and being able to determine within a period of twelve or eighteen months if the use of domestic animals in circuses — as wild animals are already prohibited by law — should also be prohibited if the conditions are not adequate. The worst sin we commit against our animal friends is not to hate them, to be indifferent to them; that is the essence of the inhuman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, show their humanity here today. And I will end up as I began, with an appointment from a great thinker, Lord Byron, on the epitaph to his dog: "Here the remains of a creature that was beautiful without vanity, strong without insolence, brave without ferocity and had all the virtues of man without any of their defects." Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, support these eight amendments and we can consensue a position of no opposition to the law of this parliamentary group. If they were not accepted, we have no choice but to refuse the law, as I said at the beginning of my intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u14	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u15	Good morning, gentlemen. Greetings to all present. Greetings also to those people who gave us suggestions and contributions and who couldn't be here today. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a dialogue prior to the drafting of the text with associations, with collectives, with schools and protectors; there was dialogue during the hearing process of the law; and there was also dialogue with the proceedings of public exposure. There was dialogue during the parliamentary process of this law: dialogue in the motion — although you, ladies and gentlemen, were witnesses — and also dialogue outside the scope of the motion. I fail precisely from that dialogue, that in two of the third parts of the amendments there was some sort of agreement. In 31% of the amendments there was transaction agreement, in 11% there was agreement to accept them in their literality and in 22% there was agreement to withdraw them; only 35% of the amendments remained alive, only one third of the amendments were not resolved by the motion. Regarding the articulate, it must be said that more than 50% of the law has not been amended by any group; almost 30% has been changed in the sense that it has requested the opposition; in short, more than 80% of the articulate of this law goes ahead with the conformity of all groups of the House. I well know that Mr Bará thinks this is a statistical summary that is not correct, as it only affects quantitative and non-qualitative factors. For Mr Bará there are filling amendments that are not valuable and there are amendments that allow you to draw red lines because of their importance. But what a bad luck!, just with those that have reached agreements are those that have little value and those that cannot be reached by agreements were crucial. This way of understanding the amendments, Mr Bará, you can conclude a lot of things: a recognition for your part that your group is presenting filling amendments — I suppose you will thus think that it can manifest a more powerful opposition to this group's proposals. But also, Your Honor, surely this means that for you much of the content of this law has no value whatsoever. There was agreement for the purposes of the law, there was agreement in the definitions, there was agreement in the powers of the administrations, in the obligations of the owners and owners, in the zoological nuclei. There was also agreement on the transport of animals, animal-related events, the regulation of dangerous animals, the collection of abandoned animals, the adoption in the Protection Associations section of the Advisory Committee on Animal Protection, the title of dissemination, education and training, and the sanctioning regime. But I suppose for you all this doesn't matter. But be done, ladies and gentlemen, how this twisted argument by Mr Bará works: if there is a fruitful dialogue and if there is agreement, for Mr Bará it is a recognition of a failure, and if the majority group does not reach agreements with minority groups it is because it is applying the knee. It's very hard for you to leave us the choice: either it's a failure recognition or it's using the absolute majority. That's the cynical concept that you have of dialogue: a recognition of failure. But perhaps, gentlemen, this demonstration of cynicism is just a way to hide a deep disinterest, Your Honor. You weren't even expected in this law. Maybe that's why you had to talk about the queen of the parties, so you had to talk about Piolin; he spent more time talking about Catalonia, talking about Piolin, than talking about this law. But that's how important you are to the welfare of animals. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 80% of this law goes ahead with the compliance of all groups of the House. It's true that there were points where we couldn't reach agreements. But frankly, drawing red lines with all of them seems a little over-exaggerated, and I'm going to tell you why. Among the amendments rejected, there are a number of them that refer only to questions of a semantic nature, which affect even the very name of the law. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, collects in article 4 a new definition for pets, which includes: domestic animals, wild animals kept in captivity and all those in zoo collections, which implies that the scope of this standard is greater than that of the 1993 Law; no smaller, no more reductionist, on the other hand: it is wider. The scope is higher. We can say we don't like the title, we can say we prefer another denomination, but let's not say that the legal content of this law is less than what the other one had. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the exclusions of the law, an exclusion that was present in the previous law, an exclusion that was expressly mentioned towards the shooting at the Pombian, with which, from the entry into force of this law, our community will finally be free from the practice of shooting at the Pombian, and that is not because the People's Party says so, but because it says so by law itself. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is understood that, when you intend to draw a red line on a question that has no legal scope, which belongs to the field of preferences in the use of language and makes this a beautiful case, what you seek is to have excuses for not supporting this law. It's the same with the amendments that refer to the explanatory statement. If we plot a red line because we don't like how the preamble of the law is drafted, of course, it's going to be very hard to reach a consensus. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, there have been amendments with technical specifications which, in the view of our group, must be part of the regulation, unless they of course introduce a substantial amendment, which, in that case, would be justified that it had been included in the articulated; as is the case with electric collars, which are expressly prohibited in the articulate of the law, because it seemed very important to us, precisely because of the use of that type of necklace, that there had been an express quotation in the articulated on its prohibition. In the law there are generic prohibitions, and in some cases, as I'm telling you, because it's necessary, also specific. Duties are laid down for the owners, tools to achieve the objectives of the law, administrative records, sanctioning procedures. But besides, as the law itself says in the last provision first, all this will be developed by a regulation within a maximum year. And it's going to be the regulation that sets out in detail the issues that most generically define this law. But I remind you, Mrs Vilán, that this regulation will have public exposure, with which any person, any citizen, any parliamentarian will be able to argue. And if you have any suggestions to make to this government, you will also be able to bring your approach, and surely they will be very welcome, Mrs. Vilán. In relation, ladies and gentlemen, with amendments to eliminate the exclusion of self-consumer animals, equidae, Taurine festivities and experimental animals from the scope of application, the 1993 Law lays down in its Article 1 that its scope excludes those animals which are subject to specific regulation, and that is the case of self-consumption animals, equidae, bulls and experimental animals, which have been removed from the scope of application of this norm as long as specific regulatory rules have been adopted at the national level. This wording was already present in the previous law and makes all the sense, as the laws are done to be applied and not to be pre-empted afterwards with all administrations. And so, besides, ladies and gentlemen, you understand that, because in the amendment they present they literally say, "This law will not apply to animals that are subject to specific regulation." That's what your amendment says. It's true that you in your amendment asked for other things. You asked us to exclude from the scope of this law all those dogs who were employed in the practice of hunting; we were also asked to exclude the dogs who are serving the shepherd, the guards, and those of personal assistance. I suppose, too, within this definition of excluding all working dogs, if they also included the dogs in the circuses. Of course, then he comes here bringing the opposite to his own amendments, because it seems to us at least a little bit strange. Look, besides you asked us to exclude these dogs, but not only in the practice of work, but also during their transportation and training, which in practice left us excluded from the scope of this law thousands of dogs, tens of thousands of dogs. It amends that our group, of course, would not admit. With regard to the tourdas, ladies and gentlemen, if we accept the amendment of the Socialist Party, it would remain the same as it is now, because there is a higher-ranking law that regulates them and, as you asked us in your amendment, it would not be of application to the law of autonomic framework. And, Mr Bará, that you establish another red line in this field — precisely you — is still a great hypocrisy, given that you belong to the government of the only municipality that carries out this type of event. But it's not just that you belong to that government, that you're the only municipality that finances the companies that organize this kind of event; you're the only municipal government that serves as a booster and sponsor of this kind of event. With which, Your Honor, instead of asking us impossible, instead of drawing red lines to justify your vote against, you start doing what is in your hands. [[Applause]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, applies to all groups. You have a tool: that of the municipal ordinances. And, ladies and gentlemen, what you have done with the amendments you have tabled to this law has been to amend absolutely all the municipal ordinances that your groups have submitted. And I want to make explicit mention of the ordinance of Galicia's largest municipality, Vigo's order, which is completely contrary, Mrs Vilán, to all that you have said from here, to everything. They prohibit animal feeding, they prohibit animal collection, they have an area of much greater exclusion than this law. [[Murmurs.]] It's, finally, an order that leaves the animals extremely helpless. And, of course, it's an ordinance that leaves years of light on this law, this law is much better and protects animals better. [[Applause]] A little coherence, I'm just asking for a little coherence. And they have the same courage to ask their mayors — who I suppose will be a problem of courage — to have that courage, to come here, and to do as if there were no such things, to do so there, to go there and ask for it. Ladies and gentlemen, things have changed a lot in 20 years. There was a need for a more demanding regulatory framework from the health and environmental point of view to ensure the welfare of animals. And this law allows us to respond to these demands, it's the country's most ambitious law. Tell me, gentlemen, if you know anything better than this. Mr Bará is most grateful that I speak of the country and that the Counsellor had spoken of the European area. Of course I do. It is the best in this country, and surely it is one of the best in the whole European Union, in the whole context where we would compare ourselves. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you talked about a lot of things that didn't have to do with the law. I want to make a mention of what the law really has to do, so everyone knows what we're talking about, and when you vote against that everyone remembers what you're voting against. We are talking about the pursuit of animal abuse, in all its manifestations, we have established mechanisms for the prevention of animal abuse and in case the sanctioning procedure has been sustained. We're talking about prohibiting any conduct that causes pain to animals, suffering or avoidable harm. We are talking about ending inappropriate conditions from a hygienic or environmental point of view or failing to meet their physiological and ethical needs — a great incorporation that makes this law. We're talking about banning the use of animals in fair attractions, giving animals as reward or prize in public events, using them as a means of advertising in street activities. Mutilation is prohibited for animals and, in particular, for cosmetics. It's forbidden to shoot the pigeon. We're talking about the ban on the use of wild animals in circuses. We're talking about not having the dogs tied permanently, pushing the adoption of abandoned animals. We're talking about not sacrificing animals in the barrels. We're talking about a new figure, about temporary shelter and foster homes, about boosting the role in the identification of animals to combat their abandonment and abuse. We're talking about the fact that in emergency situations the food and the collection of abandoned or wandering animals prevails over the municipal ordinances, like Vigo does or how he does he doesn't get the Sada Town Hall out of order anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u17	We're talking about the creation of the feline colonies. We're talking about promoting responsible tension as a better way to prevent abandonment and abuse. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what we are voting for today is not just a People's Party law, it is a law that fights abuse, promotes adoption and seeks to raise awareness of society as a whole in responsible capacity. That, Your Honor, is what we are going to vote for today and not a lot of other things you've talked about. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. We now begin the round of parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u19	The representative of the People's Party, Mr. Trenor, said that there was a lot of prior dialogue in the processing of the preliminary draft and the bill, and what happened in the last few weeks is the evidence that there was no such dialogue, because to you, especially by social pressure, by media pressure, by the mobilization of animalistic collectives and protectors, there was no more remedy than accepting some, a part of these amendments. And that was precisely the recognition of the evidence that the initial text was a very weak text, with many shortcomings and many contradictions. And we have already said — you seem to just want to hear some things — that we recognize the effort made in the presentation to welcome, to support, to reach agreements on amendments presented by the opposition groups and also by the People's Party, which in part was to transfer the proposals made by the animal defence groups. What we criticize them and continue to criticize them is that they take a quantitative approach to this issue. It's not a question of figures, it's not a statistical question. We can't say that, because they were supported, because the two thirds were collected, the text is already a marvel. Because if I didn't pick up 2%, 3%, 4% or 5%, if they're absolutely central issues, if they're aberrations, we're not worth it. And that's why, indeed, we have red lines, but they have to do with the support that the People's Party continues to have for shows of ill-treatment, torture and suffering, because this is a law with exceptions; it is a law with exceptions basically by the imposition of the People's Party of Madrid, and you are submissive and obedient as in many other matters and therefore maintain in the text of the law the existence in Galicia of cruel and non-traditional shows. And I've already told you that, in addition, they passed a law in Madrid in 2013 and another law in 2015 precisely to shield these acts of ill-treatment. By the way, we must say that at this time there is a majority in the State Parliament that would make it possible to change that law. We hope that this majority will really be used and that there will be full coherence on the part of all political groups, by putting down that law that keeps the abuse, cruelty, suffering to the animal. As they also had courage, they just had courage, for example, in Balearics to make a law at least which means a step forward in the direction of avoiding that imposition of that centralist and Madridn model. [[Applause]] Laws can be changed and we hope they change. What happens is that, of course, maybe some are very expensive to defend certain positions in Andalusia, in Extremes, in Castile, etc. We have, Mr. Losada, red lines, and it's not a question of numbers and statistics, it's a matter of sensitivity, it's a question of coherence, it's a matter of respect, it's a matter of animal welfare. You made a reference to the Council of Pontevedra, and I love you to do so, to be able to talk about this issue in this Parliament and to clarify matters in this Parliament, because the Council of Pontevedra, of course, does not support the tourists. He has already stood in the full clear against the tourdas. And the Town Hall of Pontevedra in 1999 withdrew the grant you gave him, the People's Party, and the massive and free distribution of invitations. [[Applause]] You don't see how many people called the Town Hall in 1999 to pick up the invitations the People's Party shared. This is over; the attendance of the municipal government's representatives at the towers is over; this infamous Queen of the festivities at the tour and at the Casino dance is over. That's over, and you felt really bad. As the support of the People's Party and the Pontevedra MP to the tourdas was also finished, because when the BNG entered the Government of the Deputy, one of the conditions that he put, precisely, together with the PSOE, was to withdraw the subsidy that Mr. Louzán, the People's Party, gave them to the races of the Peregrine parties. We are in front of a public square that the Town Hall rents for municipal shows and for saving money, and at no time does the Town Hall support, subsidize or promote Taurine parties. In any case, if you want the Town Hall to ban Peregrina parties, change state law or change the Law of Shows and give the Town Hall capacity to prevent the organization of Taurine festivities in Pontevedra. Be assured that there will be no bulls in Pontevedra... and that Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Rueda and Mr. Feijóo will have to go see bulls at the Ventas Square. [[Applause]] Give us that ability and there will be no bulls again in Pontevedra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u21	We're going to support both the Socialist Group and the Tide amendments and we're going to keep our amendments, which refer to the issues I've said before. What we're not going to support is barbarism, what we're not going to support is torture, abuse and a law that doesn't solve absolutely fundamental issues that have to do with welfare and animal abuse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u23	We will therefore vote against this proposal from the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u25	Thank you, President. Indeed, there was dialogue, and the example of dialogue was Mr Trenor's intervention just a few moments ago, because you were a call to dialogue to the rest of the parliamentary groups right now. If there was dialogue before and then there was later, why was 80% of the law text changed? Or, if you accept 80%, you accept most of the amendments from the parliamentary groups. It's hard to say that before the bill entered Parliament there was a lot of dialogue when then many of the articles that you proposed in your bill were changed. It's because there was a lot of previous dialogue. What there has been is a lot of citizen pressure, what there has been has been a lot of citizens and what has been an amendment to the whole Socialist Parliamentary Group, and you have reacted by opening your hand to dialogue; a dialogue that appears today that does not exist with its intervention. Mr. Trenor, it is true that there have been agreements, but the bill that entered into this House on the day that we discussed the amendment to the whole and this bill looks as much as an egg to a chestnut, more or less; and, if it changed, it was thanks to those people who are outside and to what we collect those who are in here, not to their decisions. By the way, you say that the use of language in the legal field is basic. In fact, it's so basic to put on expressly that firefighting is much more precise and much more basic than not to put on, extremely basic. If you don't do it, it'll be for something, because, indeed, there are specific prohibitions, because specify them. Why don't they? why do they keep collecting exclusions and additional applications in Article 2. It is excluded: "This law shall not apply to, among other things, animals employed in any Taurine spectacle, including closures." It's absolutely clear there. You want to keep protecting the bull races. That's your decision. And you want to regulate these specific prohibitions in a regulation, of course you can, but those we are in the legal field, as if it were Palau's first, we know that the laws are above the municipal regulations and regulations. It would therefore be far more important what happened in this Parliament in order to be able to ban everything under a law than the municipal laws and regulations. The regulations, moreover, have no entry into this House and we cannot debate them; we can make contributions, but you may not accept any input from within or outside the House and nothing would happen because it is your power. You also said that laws are made to be applied and not to go to the courts. Well, they're doing it too. Indeed, not for you, and that's why that great Justice minister you put us with President Feijóo decided to impose the fees, so that citizens could not defend their rights in the courts. You have just stated what your opinion of the rights is. By the way, there's a fundamental right to go to the courts, but we already know that fundamental rights aren't like you too much. It's not true that there's no better law, because this is a copy and grabs the law of Madrid. So at least there's a law exactly as bad as this one or half bad as this one or half good one, which is the law of the Madrid Community, which you used as a model. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of amendments from the other opposition groups. Ask for the separate vote of our Amendments Nos 1, paragraphs 1 and 2, 34, 38, 46 and 50, exactly as we did in the committee and, as I said earlier, you will vote against this project. Because all the laws are important, it's true, but with this law, in which so many people have worked, essentially all those people who work with animals every day, we could have reached a country a little better and not bring here a text, this text, so that the advisor can show off his work for future or future issues in his political future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. We're going to continue until the last moment trying to get this law, really, to be a law that assumes progress. I mean, it's never gonna be, like it's written, the law that I would propose in Marea, but we're still... we still have time, we still have time. The spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Trenor, whom I personally thank personally, as I said before, his negotiator in the presentation, although on the fundamental themes, these eight issues we mentioned earlier, we could not reach an agreement, focused on his intervention in the groups of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party of Galicia, and did not mention our intervention at all. He didn't mention any of our demands, none of our arguments. The truth is, I don't know if it's because I take them or because it's impossible for you to break them. I don't know, or maybe it didn't give him time. And what does that imply, that you will accept any of these eight amendments, Mr. Trenor? In fact, each of them involves solutions to mistreatment, which means that many animals do not have to die in the hills of Galicia or in the barracks. In fact, think about it in the minutes that remain for the vote and that we do not have to wait until there is a government in Galicia with real advanced sensitivity to animal protection, as is understood in all the developed countries. We don't want to draw political bills with such a matter as this, of humanity and fundamental rights, as the United Nations also recognizes in the Declaration of the Rights of Animals. Only by avoiding the suffering of a dog, a cat or a horse — as I spoke before the tragic case of the Triumph horse — will we give ourselves to be satisfied. They support our amendments. We really want a law that meets the objectives I mentioned: the full protection of the physical and psychological well-being of animals, the eradication of animal abuse, the protection of the most sacred right, such as life, actually establishing zero sacrifice. This is the fundamental part of our amendments. If the definition of euthanasia and the exception to the prohibition on animal sacrifice is not modified according to the definition of euthanasia, the dogs will continue to die day after day in the fields. Counsellor, really, reflect on this point. It's just to remove two sentences from the definition of euthanasia, that anyone knows that what they put there is not euthanasia. We must lay the foundations for the eradication of animal abandonment. That goes to the amendment where we put the budget allocation to animal protectors. It's the only possible solution; through mercantiized barrels this will not be solved. Why? Because your business is to pick up dogs — have the conditions, some better ones and some worse ones — and eventually, in many cases, sacrifice them. Who's going to go against their own interests? Mercantilized barrels will never be against abandonment. All the protectors comment on it, they don't want that activism, what they want is to end the abandonment of the dogs, and the mercenized careers can't because it would be to throw stones at their own business. Therefore, this annual funding is absolutely necessary for protectors. Mr. Trenor also spoke about why we were going to deny the exclusion of the Animal Law, which, on the other hand, in the definition if it is specific that animals with specific regulation are excluded, but there is a specific regulation always understood and when in that regulation animal protection is included, because if you read the regulation of the horse sector in Galicia... I strongly insist that as well as the situation of dogs, fair cats, etc., it is serious, the situation of horses in the hills of Galicia is absolutely intolerable, and the vast majority of citizenship in those areas is showing it continuously. The irresponsible right of animal protection cannot be put forward. Please reflect on the few minutes left. And since in that law there is no regulation -- and much less in the regulation of bulls, there we're not going to go in there anymore -- so, really, think about it, take these eight amendments into account, and although, I say, the project wouldn't be ours, we could get to abstain if they accept those eight amendments, which we would like to in turn vote one by one and separately. Thank you very much. If we don't, we'll have no choice but to reject the law, with much suffering, really, because it's a matter that really concerns us all, not from a political point of view, but from a personal point of view. It's a matter of self-conviction, which goes far beyond politics. And, well, of course because they coincide with many of the initial amendments we had, we're going to approve the amendments of both the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u28	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Vilán for saying that she doesn't support this law because the advisor may be the best mayor she can have my city. Thank you very much for acknowledging it, and thank you very much for saying here that this is not the best law, but yes implicitly recognizing that this law may have an election receipt for the Counsellor, because what you're doing with that recognition is recognizing that this law also has some positive part. Thank you, Mr. Casal, it was a pleasure to work with you. I think we're gonna keep working a lot more. And voting what you vote for today, this law has something about you. There is a lot of this law that contemplates some of its contributions, very important contributions. And I think I vote for what I said, as I said, this law has something of its own. Mr. Bará, look, I from Pontevedra don't want to talk anymore. Press headlines have already said it: "They admit that bulls are a tradition in Pontevedra," a tradition and an attraction. Well, that's what Lores says. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] If you disagree, tell him. Ladies and gentlemen, this law enshrines a legal good: the welfare of animals; a legal good that does not depend on the sensitivity or concern of the people who are concerned about animals. It's not a dual law that has different demands according to the degree of sensitivity of people, it's a law that protects animals, regardless of who they own. What a paradox it would be to have strict and demanding law with all society and leave with those who most want animals! We couldn't do that. Legal good to protect cannot depend on good intentions. Animal welfare does not depend on good intentions, animal welfare is an obligation to society as a whole. Your Honor, several months ago we started the parliamentary procedure of this law. We offer dialogue and study all the amendments, and by that time we felt that we had done what you and I had already made a decision, for pure electoral tactics, as you just recognized. They have come to say and they keep repeating that we do this only to win vows; as I said, an implicit recognition of the goodness of this law. From the very first moment they worked to put obstacles in place. They know that this is the best law in the whole country, and of course, you can't allow a right-wing government to be what they're facing in something they think is heritage on the left. [[Murmurs.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have had a majority in this House and have preferred not to do anything at all, and you cannot understand that it is a majority of the People's Party that you have not done what you have not done, either out of disinterest or out of disability. [[Applause]] Today we're going to pass this law, it's safe for you, and when it comes into force in Galicia, there won't be any more cosmetic mutilations, there won't be a pumpkin shot, there will be no more circuses with wild animals, there will be no electric collars, sacrifices in the barrels, there won't be no more towels that give animals, and the dogs will no longer be tied for life. And, on the other hand, there will be adoption, temporary foster homes, feline colonies, educational campaigns and responsible tenure will be a reality for society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, this can be the fruit of all political forces or only of the People's Party. We can all feel part of this great advance or, on the other hand, some will go through history by putting sticks on the wheels. Leave the red lines aside, act responsibly. They have the opportunity to participate in the greatest progress in protecting our land's animals. They add to that progress, they have the opportunity to show the whole society that they are useful to the country, that when society progresses you are able to move forward with it, that when you make a law that is good and generous, you will be on the side of good and generous. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are able to put the welfare of animals above your electoral interests and the fight against the abuse and abandonment of animals. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u30	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Consideration of the G.P. Bill Proposal of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 9/2011, of 9 November, of the public media of audiovisual communication of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u31	Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks for the presentation of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today our parliamentary group is presenting a proposal to take account of a law passed by this Parliament in 2011. So six years have passed since that law was passed; a law, by the way, adopted by the absolute majority of this Parliament, by the same group that continues to maintain it today, and therefore supports the government of this autonomous community. One law that makes that maximum good "let others do the laws, that I will make the regulations," but it is that, in this case, neither regulation nor realization of everything that is established in that law itself. To me it is democratically paradoxical that it has to be a parliamentary opposition group which has to urge to comply with a law passed by this Parliament, when, as I said before, it was the same parliamentary group that adopted it — not exclusively, but rather to approval — in 2011. In fact, it would be sufficient to read the explanatory statement to realize that this law is a necessary and powerful instrument that articulates the mechanisms in turn to ensure the plurality, neutrality and professionalism of Galicia's public media. However, as has been discussed extensively in the Galician Radio and Television Corporation Commission, it does not seem to be a law which, on the part of the Government, requires any kind of regulatory development, and much less than the establishment of any kind of deadline to comply with what is established as necessary in the legislative text itself. As the terms underpinning our bill stand, I will refer to six fundamental aspects which we should debate and which I believe we should adopt today in this Parliament. First of all, everything that refers to the appointment of the director or director general of the Galician Radio-Television Corporation. It is not that at the particular level or as a parliamentary group we have anything against the current Director General, Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo; it is more, I make explicit recognition from here to his dialectical elasticity and accumulate whenever the Corporation is led by some matter that may be particularly conflicting, because with extraordinary skill Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo minimizes and adapts to the needs of the Government of the United States of Galicia. I mean, he adapts to the demands that are made to him in the commission. He always has good words, there's always an explicit recognition that there might have been some mistake, but at the end, like all elastic structures, he recovers his initial position and prays around what is demanded from the General Secretariat of the Media, because, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that it's the General Secretariat of the Media of the Unity of Galicia that controls the operation of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, not as much as the aspects of daily involvement, but as regards the political control of information, in particular that this Corporation provides. And then, because I'm interested in joining two other aspects first, I'll literally read the Government's answers to the questions put to him by this parliamentary group, but I'm also interested in stressing that it doesn't seem necessary that, after the publication of the Corporation's framework mandate in 2015, the corresponding programme contract to be signed had not been published. It seems to us — and so we have explained it by this parliamentary group on repeated occasions in the various committees — that it is not interested in publishing this programme contract, and it is not interested in the simple reason that a contract, as far as it is public, considerably limits the capacity for political action of that powerful instrument in which it has become, from the point of view of the Government's projection and the concealment of the regrettable mistakes that may occur in the daily management of an autonomous community. And so if there's that control, the Galician Radio and Television Corporation has to report through a program contract, it's going to be very difficult to escape from giving justifications and even demanding responsibilities to anyone according to where the mistakes come from. What about the absence of the Professional Staff of employees of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation? This reminds me of that typical problem of turtle math, which advances 1 meter on the first day, then progresses every day half the previous day and never reaches 2 meters. It looks like a perpetual dialogue, a dialogue that must be extraordinarily complicated. Some kind of singularity must have the employees of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation so that they were not yet able to develop a professional status that guarantees the necessary independence of the employees of that Corporation. And, of course, nothing to say about the absence of the Information Council, because why should we have an information board when plurality, the neutrality of workers is guaranteed, taking into account the maximum guidelines that emerge from the always well-intentioned Director General of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation and its Board of Directors? They're going to allow me, because I think it's illustrative, to read the Government's answer to a question asked by our parliamentary group about opinion regarding the current guarantee of the right of Galician Radio and Television professionals to their information independence. And they tell us, "In all the information spaces of Galician Radio Galega and Television, we respect the criteria of impartiality and attention to plurality, as it cannot be otherwise when we are exercising the duty to inform from a media of public ownership and as established by the very law of creation of Galician Radio and Television Corporation, now transformed into Galician audiovisual media law. These criteria - they continue - "must necessarily be combined" - careful with this data - "with the proportionality of political information, as they set out the programming principles established by the Governing Council and the other criteria emanating from the body that regulates the activity of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation". Fantastic words; practical content, null. They say, "Beyond these principles, everyone can make mistakes." Yes, the problem with errors is that when they accumulate and repeat, they're already trending. That's the difference between making a mistake and always making a mistake in the same sense. And he says, "Everyone can make mistakes, and Galician TV isn't exempt from this possibility." That's a lot worse! That's a lot worse! But they end up: "The standard of quality of the Greek public is from the highest in the state media system." Because I'm worth it! They're told that this quality standard is the highest in the arc of the state media. [[Laughter]] If this was little, when they are asked by the measures provided by the Government of Galicia to ensure transparency and self-control of Galician Radio and Television, they say that the measures that the Government of Galicia is going to put in place to ensure transparency and self-control of Galician Radio and Television are precisely the one responsible for doing and implementing the law to which we intend to introduce amendments today. That is to say, it is the Corporation itself that clearly tells us — because it is written in addition to the law — that it is the Government that has to put in place all the necessary mechanisms, and it is that Government itself that does not publish the rules necessary to comply with this law. Well, we keep regulation of Galician audiovisual authority. This would, in fact, deserve a chapter within the dislate that we have seen constantly listening to in the Commission of the Corporation of Radio and Television of Galicia, because it turns out that the Corporation already has enough control mechanisms, as it is told us repeatedly, making a revolutionum between what has been monitoring the economic activity of the Corporation, which absolutely has nothing to do with the plurality of information... and as if we are told that there are already bodies that monitor the Television of Galicia, which is the audiovisual authority seems to be something that has no hurry to be regulated at all. And so they go one way behind another and we see picturesque things like that between a noon newsmagazine and the same afternoon newsmagazine is cut off, disappears, if you ignore the opinion of a Galician engineer who criticizes the very performance of the Fisheries Council in certain areas. But it turns out that this has a very easy explanation: it was not in any case a political intervention, it was not in any case a call from the General Secretariat of the Media to say, "This can't be heard again on Galician television, this has to disappear," no, it was a technical error in assembly, it was a problem among the different professionals of communication working in the Corporation, that between noon and the afternoon session changed criteria, or at least they had different criteria. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] What, of course, of the orientation that was made on the day that the President of the State Government appeared as a witness at the National Audience? You will remember the boisterous beginning of that news. I mean, the news wasn't that the president of the Government declared himself in the National Audience, the news began saying it wasn't the first time this happened. It's something that happens every day, seeing a president of the government or an autonomous community testifying to a court. And since it's normal, you have to tell the population -- if you don't remember -- that this is the most common thing. We therefore believe that the creation of that audiovisual authority which refers to the law, which says it will determine what its composition is and what its tasks are. But, well, nothing will happen either because at the end of the day while the People's Party maintains the absolute majority in this Parliament, the difference in what is happening in the Parliament of the State, in which last week a new law was passed to make more plural the appointment of those responsible for Spanish Television, here we protest that everything will continue the same after this session; and I say that we protest because, although this is exclusively a consideration of a proposed amendment of law, it turns out that the Government of this autonomous community, making an alarm of creativity, says, "We believe this initiative does not improve the legislation at all." Eleven words to explain that after eight years it is not necessary to set deadlines for regulation and the persons responsible for the proceedings which are established by law itself. And nothing gets better. It says that this bill simply sets deadlines — obviously, it sets deadlines, but how will it not establish them when they are systematically being breached? — for the development of certain aspects of the current law, nonsense at the end of the account, sins minute what we ask for — paragraphs that need their own times. It gives me the impression that the very times the Government refers to in its response should begin to measure in centuries, since the years will begin to be small to measure how long the Government considers it necessary to regulate these aspects of this law that we intend to modify today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u34	Well, good morning to all and to all. In the meantime, I would like to point out that we are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into account, but we are absolutely insufficient to take into account the approaches that are being formulated to improve the current legislative framework around our country's public media. We believe that we must go beyond what is formulated. I think there are a lot of people here who know what the position of the Galician Nationalist Block was in the 2011 debate. We believe that we must shield the working rights of the Staff Framework of the Corporation, we believe that we must address — as we have defended on many occasions — the future of the public media themselves in an increasingly fragmented panorama of audiences, increasingly specialized in content, that we must address the fundamental role — we believe it to be key — in the process of linguistic normalization that should play the Corporation of Radio and Public Television, in particular in the contents specifically directed to younger age bands, and of course also to address many of the issues that are set out in their founding principles, such as promoting culture and not reducing it to a mere and banal — every time more banal — spectacle or show. However — I say — we will support the consideration of this bill. And even we are pleased — I have to say honestly — that the Socialist Party recognises that they went wrong by the People's Party's hand, by crochet in 2011. I hear him -- and I tell him frankly and frankly, Mr. Álvarez -- you don't seem to believe that Law 9/2011. We'll also do an exercise of historical memory, which I think is absolutely necessary. Since the adoption of Act 9/2011 in this Parliament, neither one of its orders has been fulfilled: neither have we earned pluralism in the public media nor have the allegations of manipulation by the staff — it is more, in 2013 they will remember that the blog "I do not manipulate" has been set up, the Professional Statute has not been created, nor, of course, the Information Council, nor the independent audiovisual authority. In fact, the only thing that has been accomplished — and for that, beyond the deadlines set by the law itself — was the creation of this corporation as the only one on Radio and Public Television in our country. That's a framework mandate that's absolutely wet paper since 2015. Not only did BNG then reject the content of Law 9/2011, CRTVG's staff panel called for a strike, coinciding precisely with the parliamentary debate in this House, a concentration in front of Horreo's palace and also a demanding Telexornal history in the Toural Square. Some of the people who are in the Chamber today, in addition, were part of that presentation and the debate that ended with the adoption of the current law. They will remember what was — I repeat — the position of the Galician Nationalist Block. He has tabled 85 amendments to which none have been approved. So we warned from this group that this law would not change anything. And you know what they called us? "The Pure." Go to the Journal of Sessions and see who said so. We warned then that it would serve no more than in practice to give more capacity for intervention and control to the parliamentary force with most in the House and to the Council itself, because in the end, it left the development of the law itself in the hands of the board. We then warned that the two instruments that would define the future of the Corporation itself, the framework mandate and the programme contract — pardon for the voice — could be unilaterally approved by those who support or support the Government. In these six years — I repeat — only the framework mandate was drawn up in 2015. What happened then? That the PP passed the knee and got approved only by his votes. And that one of the great victories of that time was that it should be passed by two-thirds, yes, in the first vote; in the third it came with an absolute majority, article 32 of the law itself. It's such a spooky, really, when you look back and check out the Journal of Sessions of that parliamentary debate, which gives shame all around, and shame in democracy. At that time, the spokesperson for the People's Party — who was Mr. Pedro Puy — said that the law improved the management, independence and principles of good government because this Parliament would elect most qualified and strengthened the general leadership. It also ensured that it was an electoral commitment acquired by its party; a choice that should take place within six months of the entry into force of the law. It is not that they have not done so, that the Government has made the current general direction almost eternal in a law of accompaniment of the budgets which both serves to reform the Law of the Mountains, to reform the Law of the Land, or to declare the imminence of the current general direction — of course, it is necessary to remember, named directly by the People's Party, by Alberto Núñez Feijóo in 2009. There was also the People's Party in that 2011 parliamentary debate that the external control of the management and administration of the Corporation by the Business Council was increasing — which, as everyone knows, is an absolutely independent and specialized entity in the media, there is no doubt — through the signing of a tri-annual programme contract for three years. They then said that, contrary to what the Galician Nationalist Block denounced, "this law strengthens the economic independence of CRTVG." And to us the question raised by the six-year-old is: where is the program contract? Where? The program contract that not only serves to shield independence or budgets, the economic efficiency for a three-year period of the Corporation, but also strategically to plan its management as a public service, with the objective of fulfilling the principles that inspire it, including the percentage of programming genres that must be issued, the contents that must be issued, or, for example, the promotion and dissemination of the culture of Galicia, which is part of the fundamental principles on which Galicia's public radio and television have been created. Do you want me to tell you what the Music Association was saying to Vivo this year 2017 at the Music Awards Gala?: How could it be possible that this country's bands didn't have a space on public television, which we all paid for with taxes, so that we could spread, spread and get to know the works of the bands, which produce a lot of music and a lot of culture in our country? There's more of the slipper on the TVG than the music bands in our country. [[Applause]] BNG urged the approval of that program contract. You will remember Mr. Blanco Paradelo — who I think was the one who gave me an answer in that 1st Committee — who urged him to comply with what he was putting into the law and to whom that programme contract was approved. The PP voted against. Now, I know, it's not about programme contracts, and that's been six years behind — the first one. Of all non-compliances if there is one that is particularly bloody and painful, from a professional point of view, is the creation of the Statute and the Information Council, a historical demand of the staff framework and a fundamental tool in the transparency and internal democracy of the Corporation itself, something that the People's Party then defended as a progress on pluralism and the veracity of information. Because the law would boost the parliamentary control of the Corporation -- I think it seems that there is no such control -- but it also made that control more efficient and effective by the household professionals with the creation of that Information Council. Where is he? Why do you keep the law if it's you? Demand — we insist — not only from the CRTVG staff but also from the Professional College of Journalists in Galicia. I — I am sincere — doubt very much that an information council prevents manipulation, the trendy selection of news, its stratification and generation in the grid and with it the construction of a certain reality. Why? Because that responds to or corresponds to the functions of the informationables, which are named after the general address, and to this government. For example, the Spanish Public Radio and Television Corporation has had news reports, and this has not stopped the allegations of manipulation from multiplying since 2011. The Informative Board may not prevent it from being hijacked, but it is a fundamental tool for channeling professional complaints. It records and documents these allegations, responds to them in a mandatory way, without having to go to the opposition forces in this House to transfer them to the CRTVG Monitoring and Control Committee. Nothing is known of this information council, and this is your task of setting up an administrative council, which — it must also be remembered — has reduced people who integrate it from 12 to 6 precisely with the approval of this Law 9/2011 — an absolute majority that was shielded in 2015, in an agreement signed between the People's Party, again, and the Socialist Party, until 2020 — a board of directors that has nothing to do with the current composition of this House, with the heterogeneity and diversity of this House. I don't have much time left. I'm not going to spend much of my time with the independent audiovisual authority that I had to control this corporation. The Block proposed a regulation directly emanating from this Parliament, which defined the functions and the creation of that independent audiovisual authority. We were told not by the People's Party or the Socialist Party. They opted for it to be Galician Union, within nine months, who had to develop that legislative project. Where are they going? Where those nine months go and it goes on without showing up! In summary, since the BNG we will support the consideration of this law, but we also make it clear that this group has already warned in 2011 about what would happen, and not because we are Nostradamus, but because in the drafting of the articulate of the law, the PP sought and shielded very much not to stay attached to anything and leave in the hands of the Council of Unity the development of the law itself. That is to say, again in the will of the rotating government both the framework mandate, the programme contract and the independent audiovisual authority itself. I think it's really good to remember. But I say we are convinced that at least with this initiative they recognize that they have made a mistake. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. I begin by saying that the objective of this proposal is to build on the plurality of Galician audiovisual media through various measures that can be synthesized into actions such as the establishment of certain deadlines for the renewal of the Director or Director General of the Corporation, through qualified majority, in theory; the establishment of control tools, such as the establishment of the Galician audiovisual authority; the setting of dates for drawing up multi-year programme contracts; or the approval in three months of professional status and the consequent advice of information. This is a first analysis, but the proposed amendment law tabled by the Socialist Party of Galicia makes it clear that there is a mechanism to provide the Council for the Administration of the Galician Radio Television Corporation with a plurality that consonates parliamentary representativeness. That's why we start by denouncing, denouncing the extreme manipulation that CRTVG suffers. We inevitably recall the pact between PP and PSdEG that prevents the second force of opposition from being present at this time in the control and decision-making bodies of the CRTVG. [[Applause]] The pact caused indignation and surprise two years ago and continues to cause the same impressions. He made it and the PP pulled out of the budget hat a new rule to keep controlling the CRTVG's management behind bars and without warning, after the wildlings, as many witnesses have said. Target met: to use the public media in favor of the party in the Government, to manipulate. Yes, democratic shame, absolute democratic shame! [[Applause]] As far as Mr Sanchez Izquierdo is concerned, he has been in the direction of the CRTVG since 2009 when he has been elected, not by this Parliament, but by Mr Feijóo. He came to power between accusations of information manipulation by the opposition and his own workers. He accumulated more than eight years in office, despite the law for his consensual election, which dates back to 2011. The PP has found a new formula to shield the company's current maximum representative in office through the General Budget Accompanying Act of 2016. It's one of the rules that allows the PP to keep controlling the management of the public media. The PP has taken on one of the most positive aspects of the Public Media Act, one of the most positive: the need to appoint the Director General after agreement in Parliament. What did I suppose of the regulatory change? A lot of things, important things. The regulatory change opened the door for the director appointed by the PP to continue in office. What a scandal! Serious attack on pluralism! What a scandal! The regulatory change left out of the board of administration of CRTVG, then the parliamentary groups of AGE, BNG and Mixto. Serious attack on plurality! What a scandal! The regulatory change shielded the absolute majority of the People's Party on the Board of Directors for a period of five years. He appointed 6 members when he was 11, reducing control capacity on the public channel in the praxe. What a scandal! Fundamental aspects regulated by Law 9/2011, of November, such as the election of a new director or director by the qualified majority of two thirds to ensure their impartiality, the adoption of the framework mandate, which would ensure stable funding, an internal own production guarantee and the maintenance of CRTVG's jobs; having a nine-year supervision also limits the possibility of control, since the framework mandate defines the performance of the public body; omits the approval of professional status and the information board in order to ensure the professionalism and independence of content. In any case, the law had to come into force long before, but they only activated the part they were interested in, which was political control for this legislation and a framework mandate to measure. You know what Master Biras said, what if you were in this Chamber? He said this was a tragic farce. He said, moreover, concerned about the dignity of the PSdeG in this procedure, which dubiously was the role played by the PSdeG. If democratic culture existed, the citizenry would appreciate that what we are living in is tragic even though it looks like a farce, and would rise civicly. But he would rise, because this cannot be accepted. There may be—and we went to the logbooks—an avalanche, can be processed, of course. But what can be isn't what it should be. And what must be in a democratic country is not this. The CRTVG, if we go to European agreements, if we look for them, will also check that it systematically complies with the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the Community directive. The CRTVG, like all public televisions — government in this case — does not correspond to what public media should be in a democracy; that is, independent of political power and economic powers. The agreements for this election were a contempt for citizenship, wrongly adapted themselves to the means of all and to maintain this informational manipulation. The current situation does not reflect the House's plurality, this is not receiptable. We continue to analyze the proposal and make small references to the six points of the proposal of the Socialist Party of Galicia. Well, in point 1, they speak of the amendment to Article 23.4. This would strengthen the start of a negotiation to seek a new candidate or candidate with a profile that, despite being conditioned by the absolute majority of the People's Party, would represent a significant advance, from our point of view, in the democratization of the public media. That is why we are prepared to support this proposal with certain reservations but to support it. It would be a guarantee of much greater plurality than the amendment of Article 14, which would guarantee plurality and take into account not only the cultural, ideological and political plurality, but also the search for genres, which is envisaged. In point 2, the third transitional provision must also be repealed. In point 3, with the modification of the fourth transitional provision, the goal is to minimize the processing deadlines, which we essentially agree with. In point 4 one of the transcendental elements of the proposal is the incorporation of a transitional provision sixth bis, intended to set deadlines for the negotiation and agreements of the programme contracts and of the multiannual plans, which lay down not only short-term budgetary guarantees for the Corporation, but, from our far more important point of view, for the essential public service which has the order, since it seeks to provide the obligation for the negotiation of this plan to incorporate the contents of Article 3.3 of the law. This Article, inter alia, provides that the programme contract shall refer expressly to the public service content. The absence of the commitment that this article refers to in the current programming represents the greatest current asset of CRTVG, with severe consequences for the service provided to society: it minimizes cultural content, omits programming directed to minorities, does not make proper promotion of the Greek language, almost does not produce educational or educational programming, there is no provision of programming for minorities, reduces programming for children and youth. And in addition, the program contract must establish percentages in own production content. The program contract has to identify the spaces that meet the plurality obligations. And to conclude, in paragraph 5, the inclusion of transitional provision sixth also seeks a deadline for the drafting of professional status and the information council, but does not, from its point of view, provide any measure to provide guarantees to these transcendental tools to ensure independence and plurality. In order to finish, the audiovisual authority must guarantee the plural participation of society in the various programmes: Gallega Academy, culture, cinema, theatre, literature, education, trade union organizations and citizens, political representation and participation of professional groups linked to information...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u38	...and communication, College of Journalists, producer associations, etc. To conclude, we will adopt this bill — as we have said — with reservations. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u40	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of Law 9/2011, of public media of audiovisual communication in Galicia, as it collects in its articulation and in the exhibition of motives, is a consequence of the necessary adaptation of the Greek public media to the new social, economic and even technological context. That law was the result of a year of study in which many people who had knowledge of it, persons and authorized professionals, who did their exhibition and those who had their arguments collected. A law — I remind you, Mr Álvarez — which was adopted by the PSOE consensus and also by the People's Party, with 61 votes in favour and 12 against; a law which, as you have stated here, is a good law, since, by the way, no opposition group today came here to criticize the law, what they did was talk about deadlines, that they wanted to be faster deadlines. And at best we can agree, that we would all like this to be a little faster. But it's true that the complexity of the law itself makes us have to go, or that they have to go, in some cases with slow steps. But what matters is that they are safe steps and firm steps. It is therefore a good law, a law that was adopted with the consensus of the People's Party and the Socialist Party and which incorporates, among its measures, the unification of three entities into one entity, the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, which, at the outset, also includes the mandatory adaptation of the current technology media with the already underway digitization and which is expected to be completed in the first half of the year 18; essential challenges for the competitiveness of Galician audiovisual media and for them to fulfil their role as public service. In the time of the law, in addition to the creation of the Corporation, the framework mandate was approved, the Board of Directors has drawn up a new regulation, a draft rules of publicity, and is now working on the professional status of setting up an information board. We are already working on this, and in this they are working on the members of the Governing Council who have been appointed on a proposal from the PSOE and the People's Party — who, by the way, are taking their decisions unanimously. What are you playing today, Mr. Álvarez? What are you playing at? Do you intend to do here what both you and En Marea partners are doing in Madrid, who have approved the amendment of the law so that instead the approval of the director was by two thirds, by a qualified majority, both in the first and second votes, which is only by absolute majority? Do you want this for the German Parliament? Do you want the director to be elected only by an absolute majority? We don't want to!, even if we would put the director. We don't want it because we think it's a decision that has to be for a broad consensus. [[Applause]] That's what we're looking for. I also want to tell you that, in fact, Galician Television, Galician Radio Galega, the Greek public media, are currently leaders in the audience, they have their accounts sanated and are already engaged in the scanning process. They are thus fulfilling their function as public service, with quality, pluralism, neutrality and objectivity. Yes, objectivity too, not the way they did in the Bipartite. [[Murmurs.]] Don't remind us of that dark stage, where, despite the fact that the People's Party had almost 50% of the representativeness here, in the news it only occupied 8% or 10%. Don't remind us of that stage where in the 2009 autonomous elections it turns out that the Electoral Union has made them up to 12 warnings of non-compliance, which, from 2009 until now, in all the elections we have passed, there has been no single warning of non-compliance. Finally, we believe that law is fulfilling its role, that Galician Television, Radio Galega, the Corporation, are fulfilling its role as a great communications agent that contributes to the promotion of Greek culture and language, which contributes to projecting outwards as Galicia is, our being. And if we think we need to keep moving forward, moving forward together in the development of this law, of a law that -- I insist -- is a good law, a law that has to go forward because it would be totally irresponsible to change half the way something is working. We said the company's got their accounts sanated. Yes, it's one of the few autonomous televisions with the healthy accounts, Mrs. Rodil. The economy of Galician Television and Galician Radiotelevision Company is not wrong. You talk to your partners in Catalonia, where they have a debt of about 100 million pesetas. Talk to them. CRTVG has been running budget over surplus for eight years; in the last year, 3.5 million euros. There is no bank debt, and in addition, in the field of human resources, conflict has decreased in recent years. And, if you like, we're talking about audiences, too. Galician TV is a leader in the audience among all autonomous televisions. In 2016 he achieved that leadership by taking it out on Catalan television, despite the fact that Catalan television has three times as much budget as Catalan television. And in 2017 it follows that same trend. Speaking simply of August, the month of August, the last month, the Galician TV audiences were 3.4 points above the average of all the autonomous television audiences. And we can also talk about Radio Galega, who has this same trend. It's the reference station both in information and in sports and also in the attention of these diverse people, with programs specific to diversity. And, among all the programming, it's the ones that have the greatest attention and the ones who are having the greatest audiences, which tells us that TVG and Radio Galega are the stations, the channels, of reference to the Greeks in general, to listen to the information and, in a special way, when something transcendent happens, something shocking. Therefore, this leadership is the result of the work of professionals, professionals, who develop it with rigor, neutrality, plurality and objectivity. Look, in the face of criticism of his work, we're not going to criticize here neither the work of the company's professionals nor the work of the management team. We're not going to criticize them because their work is contrasted with the hearings, the good economic management and the impact they're having and the reflection they're giving of Galicia. Nor is it true that there is a gap between the communication of rural and urban hearings. The Galician TV is making the urban target ever bigger. And we also have to keep in mind that it's not just the audiences themselves, it's the need to see all the technologies. The Corporation's corporate website has about 150,000 users, Facebook live has reached its first broadcasts last year's 200,000 impacts. And finally, as we said, it's the reference to most of the Greeks. Manipulation, none. Manipulation, which was in the Bipartite. [[Murmurs.]] I insist, manipulation, none! Please, with regard to the professionals who are doing their work, who are making you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u41	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u42	TV and the Welsh radio are from the biggest audiences. With regard to the election of the director general — an election that, by the way, I remember that was also decided by agreement and consensus with the PSOE — what I said earlier: do you want us to go to an absolute majority election? It doesn't seem reasonable to us and we're not going to do it. With regard to the programme contract, you know that the uncertainties about the tax and tax nature that currently have all the autonomous televisions, not only the Galician, advise to wait at that time when this situation is clarified to take forward the programme contract. In his professional status, he's working on the briefing board, too. And we therefore consider, as a conclusion, that the current development of the law is positive. We recognize that it could go faster — thank you, Mrs. Rodil, I agree with you at that — but we all also recognize that the complexity of the law, this good law, makes it impossible to go any faster. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Corporation, a leader in the audience, with sound accounts, fulfills the role of public service, of the broadcaster of culture and of the Greek language, all reasons that do not advise that the amendment of the law is relevant at this time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u43	Thank you, Mrs Arias. Replica from the author group of the bill, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to intervene. Mrs. Rodil, I must explain very badly or make an intervention frankly contrary to what I intended, since I have not seen any explicit recognition of any error on the part of the Socialist Party of Galicia in the processing of the law to which this proposed amendment refers. If you've seen some kind of error, it's probably because you have a biased perception, since perhaps you should remember that your representative at that time, Mr. Quintana, in the commission supported until the end of the processing of this law, and that later changed. And another thing: professional status is included in Law 9/2011 because it was the Socialist Party of Galicia that urged the inclusion of that statute in that law. Mrs. Cuña, I don't think you have made virtually any reference to what is our proposal to amend Law 9/2011 because you have referred to other things I understand that, from the point of view of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, you are more concerned, as is the composition of the Galician Radio Television Council itself. In that sense, I fully agree, but I also thank the Group of En Marea, together with the Nationalist Block Galego, for their support that is not enthusiastic about this proposal to amend the law, but, in any case, support. Mrs. Arias, congratulations on your accountability to this Parliament, because you seemed to be the president of an administrative council speaking of the hearings, the sanity of the corporation's accounts, the good that everything goes. But he didn't make any reference beyond including scanning -- that, well, if it seems to be an objective, even if we're the last autonomous television that's digitized in the state, it doesn't look like a very prominent place in the ranking; although, if we see it in reverse, yes -- He did not make any reference to why they changed criteria. And here I say one thing: I do not come to this Parliament to play, I come to defend the work of my parliamentary group in the most serious and responsible way I can. I haven't played yet. [[Applause]] But if we're talking about a change of criteria, and we've identified a change of criteria with play, could you explain to me — even if it doesn't have a replication — why in 2014 your parliamentary group approved a non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Group in which exactly the same amendment proposal was put in place? Who's changing criteria? [[Applause]] We do not, we defend the same in 2017 as in 2014. It's you who have a different criterion. And come here and tell me what I've been playing, what I've come to play because I've come to defend the same thing that the parliamentary group defended three years ago. Look, the sad reality we have right now is that the Government of this autonomous community has just opposed for the first time — and this role is signed by the General Media Secretary — to this proposed amendment because it says that nothing improves the legislative text. Setting deadlines is not better. Obviously, there is no new proposal for articulated, there is a proposal for modification and limitation of deadlines to carry out what is in the law, something — I insist — that your parliamentary group agreed in 2014. You'll explain why they're now changing their criteria. But I'll tell you something. The sad thing, the saddest thing about all this, is that behind it still exists the reality of political control of the corporation, he likes it or doesn't like it, you talk about percentages, you talk about dark times, you talk about the dark side or the invisible face of the moon, I don't care. The reality, and it's seen every day, is that whoever sends information from the Galician Radio Television Corporation is the General Media Secretariat, does not send the Director General of Galician Television Radio, does not send the Board of Directors. [[Applause]] Indeed, one cannot admit that so many errors are the result of one chance. And you're going to let me tell you clearly that I'm tired of that speech that, behind any initiative of this parliamentary group or other, there's a question of workers or officials or doctors. Nobody questioned the professionalism of Galician Radio and Television workers! It was you who introduced this absolutely false and biased argument in this debate. I'm going to visualize it, see it or hear my first intervention, see if I've ever talked about the workers. I spoke about the political responsibility of government members and their intervention in the information control of Galician Radio and Television. Nothing else, and at any rate, I almost thank them for their change of mind, because you yourselves stand in front of the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u45	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. We shall vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u46	We voted, firstly, the Ditame, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the draft law on the protection and well-being of pets in Galicia not incorporated into the dictatorship. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u47	We now vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which has requested Mrs Vilan separately. It would be number one with points one and two with points 34, 38, 46 and 50. [[Mr. Vilán Lorenzo: No. 2, paragraphs 1 and 2, 34, 38, 46 and 50]] So let's vote number 2, paragraphs 1 and 2, 34, 38, 46 and 50 first. Amendment Nos 2, points 1 and 2, 34, 38, 46 and 50 G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia not incorporated into the dictatorship. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u48	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia, except those already voted, to the draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia not incorporated into the dictatorship. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u49	We are now voting on the amendments of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, which asked for a separate vote on Amendments Nos 3(1), 9(1), 30(10), 32(5), 50(3)(a), 79 and 80. We vote. Amendments Nos 3.1, 9.13, 30.10a, 32.5, 50.3a, 79 and 80 G.P. from In Marea to the draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia not incorporated into the dictatorship. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u50	We voted for the rest of the amendments of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. in Marea, except those already voted on, to the draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia not incorporated into the dictatorship. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u51	We voted for the committee's ruling. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law on the protection and welfare of pets in Galicia. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u52	We are now voting on the proposal for a law, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 9/2011, of 9 November, of the public media for audiovisual communication of Galicia. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 9/2011, of 9 November, of the public media of audiovisual communication of Galicia. [[Votation.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u53	Open the doors, please. Let's turn to item 3 on the agenda, which corresponds to appearances. Comparison of the Health Adviser, on his own request, to present the suicide prevention plan in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u54	To formulate the appearance you have the word Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I come today to report to this House on the Plan for the Prevention of Suicide in Galicia, which was developed by a large group of professionals from different institutions, with the participation of the Federation of Family Associations and Persons with Mental Disease in Galicia, Feafes, with a clear comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach, as we believe it to be appropriate in this case. With the development of this plan, we meet a need expressed in the review of the 2014 Health Priority Plan and the Sergas 2020 Strategy, and also the commitment — acquired at Parliamentary Headquarters on 21 March this year — to have drawn up the suicide prevention plan in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, suicide is a health priority of public health, both in Galicia and in the world, as it is collected in the document suicide prevention, a global imperative, published in September 2014, which aims to prioritize its prevention in the global public health agenda, in public policies, and to raise awareness about suicide as a public health issue. In the world, more than 800,000 people die each year from suicide — 1 death every 40 seconds. It is the second leading cause of death among people aged 15 to 29 years. Experts say suicides are predictable, but in order for responses to be effective, suicide prevention cannot be addressed exclusively from the health field, but an integral suicide prevention strategy is required in which all social agents as a whole are integrated. WHO sets out the objective of reducing suicide rates worldwide by 10% in 2020. In relation to suicide rates, Galicia has a suicide rate below the European Union average and above the average of Spain, with similar rates to those of Switzerland, Iceland, Sweden and Denmark. We also know that suicide rates increase exponentially with age, and thus older societies have higher suicide rates. In relation to the historical series, since 2000 the suicide rate has remained relatively stable: between 10 and 12 cases per 100,000 inhabitants per year. The trend analyzed in the last thirty-seven years, since 1980, informs us that this is slightly descending in relation to the suicide rate, both in men and women. We are not alien to the suffering that entails suicide at the level of people making that decision as well as their families and close relatives. On the contrary, I share the pain that anyone who suffers from this situation experiences. For this reason, and knowing that Galicia historically presents suicide rate data from the highest in Spain, today I present this suicide prevention plan. Mental health is worrying and caring for us, and the evidence is that we have protocols of attention and different actions that have been developed in the integrated management structures of Galicia, as it is collected in the document at their disposal on the Sergas.es page. In the EOXI of Coruña, since 2012, the psychiatry service has a protocol to act on suicide. Since 2014 it has, however, a quick consultation guide for patients at risk of suicide that attend emergency services, and it also has what we call "short psychiatric unit." In June 2015, the Protocol was implemented for patients at risk of suicide in psychiatric hospitalization units, which includes risk assessment and exploration scales for both patients and family members. In the EOXI of Ourense, Verín and Barco de Valdeorras, since 2009 they have had the Intensive Intensive Intervention Program in Suicide Conduct. In the EOXI of Pontevedra and Salnés there is a preferential care protocol for patients at risk of suicide in mental health units. In Santiago de Compostela's EOXI they also have a protocol of action with the patient with attempted suicide, which is served within five days of their attempt, and the inclusion in group therapy in case of recurrence, and another specific for the recently updated hospital area. In Ferrol's EOXI, both at the care level and at the research level, a suicide prevention program dedicated to the hospitalization area, in coordination with the psychiatric emergency program. In Vigo's EOXI there is an action protocol to standardize the management and urgent treatment of patients with possible psychiatric pathology in the emergency service. In the EOXI of Lugo, Cervo and Monforte de Lemos there is also a protocol of action for cases at risk of suicide. We started to develop this plan in July 2016, and to do so, a working group was created that was able to have the highest representation of all the main actors in the suicide approach. In this group they are represented, in addition to the Council of Health itself, the Council of Education, the Council of Social Policy, the Imelga, 061, schools of journalists in Galicia, and all of them with different profiles — social workers, medical specialists in family and community medicine, epidemiologists, psychologists, professionals in education and the journalistic profession, psychiatrists and nurses, among others —. I want to highlight the participation of patients and their families, represented through the Federation of Associations of Families and Peoples with Mental Disease in Galicia, Fears. But in addition, we wanted this plan to be reviewed by suicide experts both at the Greek level and at the national level. Thus, this plan was reviewed by the two societies of psychiatry of Galicia, the University of Oviedo and Valencia, the Andaluz Health Service and mental nursing societies and primary care. I would like to thank all of them for the work they have done and for the commitment they have made to this document. The consensus obtained in this plan is the result of working together, in an interdisciplinary way, with all participants, coordinated from the Health Council. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a plan for the Greek society, a plan for the whole of citizenship, in which we seek — I insist again — the involvement of the whole of citizens in actions to prevent suicide. And in addition, the Health Council will serve as a coordinating and coherent element of the different strategies in the approach to prevention of suicide. The objectives, therefore, in view of this worrying scenario are to try to put the tools needed to reduce these figures. We want the suicide prevention plan in Galicia to provide a coordinated response between all administrations and institutions, and to have a permanent and resizable strategy that undermines the prevalence of this conduct. The Galician suicide prevention plan is born with a double objective: to reduce the suicide rate and to establish coordination mechanisms to enable different organisms to add efforts to work together in prevention, management, intervention and support of people who are attempting suicide as well as their relatives. With this document we want to prioritize the prevention of suicide in the agenda of mental health care, and we also want to realize that suicide is a global problem that goes beyond health care, and other measures need to be implemented in such important areas as education or social. In short, with this plan we pursue as specific objectives the increase in coordination between institutions and agents involved in the prevention of these behaviours, increasing the awareness and awareness of society about suicide as a health problem, improving attention, since health care, which is given to people presenting suicide as well as their families, and promoting research and knowledge about the conduct of suicide in Galicia. And I wanted to break line by line the 7 strategic lines and 37 specific action measures. In line 1 of interinstitutional coordination with suicide, we will establish an interdepartmental coordinating commission with representatives of the different sectors of society involved in the prevention of suicide that promotes, supervises and approves the development of protocols and coordination instruments between the health system and the educational and social environment and the Administration of Justice; also the implementation in the educational system of a protocol for the prevention and intervention of suicide risk in the educational field, which will be integrated into the Swedish school coexistence strategy 2015-2020 under the follow-up of the School Cooperation Council of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. He's currently working very actively with the Education Council in improving the follow-up processes of children who suffer from both suicide diversion and other severe mental pathology. We hope that by the end of this year we have prepared a consensual project. The updating and, in their case, drafting protocols to be applied and developed by social services within the scope of their competence is also an object measure of this plan. In line 2, of awareness, awareness and reduction of the social stigma associated with suicidal conduct — the second strategic line — we are making the need to improve aspects of the communication of suicide-related events, both on the press and on television and on social networks. That's why measures are established such as collaboration with the professional schools of Journalism and Psychology of Galicia in a style guide in order to simultaneously report channels of help to survivors and relatives. This working group has already been formed in May of this year at the Health Council and Journalists College, hoping that in the coming months we will have a final document. There is a broad international consensus on the positive effect of social awareness on this issue, which is expected to be carried out through actions that coincide with World Suicide Day, awareness-raising campaigns and scientifically identified information and self-help tools on institutional websites. Measure 9 underscores the need to collaborate with the State's security forces in monitoring web content that is particularly harmful to a population segment that is affected by this problem. As you know, only a few months ago there are certain web content that affects young people towards the suicidal tendency, and I think all of this has to be cut off. Line 3 of prevention and approach to suicidal conduct — the third strategic line — develops actions on improvement of prevention and approach through measures such as establishing in Galicia's clinical history an encoding to achieve two differentiated objectives — the suicide risk code: on the one hand, optimizing information from the CMBD and facilitating follow-up, ensuring the care continuity of the patient who has submitted suicide at a given time. The justification of this measure lies primarily in the fact that the main risk factor for suicide is a previous suicide. Other aspects include, such as the decrease in time of assistance in suicide, protocolization through risk assessment scales and severity, the establishment of action protocols at different levels of prevention and improvement of hospital safety, the development of safety plans and access to psychotherapeutic treatments, and the development of guidelines for patients and professionals. A particularly relevant aspect is to affect the detection of mental disorders, especially the major depressive disorder and alcohol abuse, highly related to suicide, and to make a proper approach to them. Line 4 is the delimitation of access to lethal media. Depending on the method used, the probability of dying after an attempted suicide is enormously different, from 95% per firearm to less than 5% for drug poisoning. Therefore, the limitation on access to lethal media should always be included in a security plan. And the actions of the public authorities must be aimed at limiting access to black suicide points — precipitation, for example — to monitoring drug dispensation and controlling pesticide access. All these actions are potentially effective measures to reduce the incidence of suicides. Line 5 is the training of professionals in the prevention and intervention of suicide behavior. The working group agreed at all times on the need to improve the training of professionals for a better understanding of the actions to be carried out in the face of an attempted suicide. Local and national policy agents, firefighters or other front-line and intervention personnel, are the first to respond to the emergency due to the risk of suicide, so their skills and abilities are fundamental to determining the course of the outcome of these situations. Comprehensive suicide prevention programs, adapted to the workplace culture, can be effective in improving attitudes, knowledge and behaviors and in significantly reducing suicide rates. WHO recommends that key agent training should be aimed at increasing communication skills on suicide issues, improving the ability to identify depressive symptoms and suicidal behaviour or increasing knowledge about available resources. Line 6, of attention to survivors, they mark that associationism and mutual support between equal is very useful as an exchange of experiences, advice, relationships and development of strategies that help validate relationships and emotions about survivors and provide specific attention to survivors through preventive and therapeutic interventions. And also the professionals who treat these patients can experience emotions such as guilt, sadness, depression, demoralization, shock, pain, which in some cases can result in professional insecurity, so it is important to provide these professionals with tools and techniques to reduce the personal and professional impact of suicide. Line 7 is the epidemiological investigation and alert about suicide. Epidemiological research and alerting is an important tool in the prevention of suicide, since it allows the collection of data, analysis and evaluation of these, helping to make evidence-based decisions. Seven lines, 35 measures, which we believe will help to deal with an important problem that has Greek society, Western society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u56	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. First of all, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u57	Good day to all, and especially to the professionals who accompany us from the rostrum following this appearance, Mr. Counsellor. You started by saying that it was a matter of concern, that it was a priority object. The truth is, to be a priority, it takes it quite quietly and quite quietly, because, look, Galicia is without planning in mental health and the People's Party — you, your Government, of what you are part — has left mental health hanging; a situation, that of mental health, tremendously serious. And the point is that this situation puts the People's Party and the Government against the mirror reflecting the consequences of their health policies. We have been reporting for years the deterioration of mental health, we have for years denounced insufficient budgets, lack of planning and mismanagement. We claim that this non-acting compromises people's health and lives — people's health and lives — and the working conditions of professionals. And in view of this, we found ourselves denying reality on its part, on the part of its predecessor, on the part of the President of the Government... denial and self-comprehensiveness, and mental health as one of the great abandoned within health policies. And you come here today — I remind you, if you have problems getting on the calendar — at the end of September 2017, and you present a suicide prevention plan, with how many years of delay, Counsellor?, with how many denials of the problem?, with how many attempts to discredit those who have tried, who have tried, visible and alerted us to what was the situation? How many bluffs afterwards, Counselor, and how many alarms afterwards? I here want to make an explicit recognition to the Galego Mental Health Movement, which has been leading years of claiming the necessity of a Greek plan for the prevention of suicide in Galicia; a plan for Galicia and Galicia and since Galicia. And you present here today a plan that, of course, does not respond to needs or expectations. Professionals, users and family members reported and reported this progressive deterioration of the health care system in Galicia; a deterioration of mental health as a result of the crisis management that you have done, as a result also of the impoverishment of large sectors of the population and the absence of future for many of these people. An economic crisis that came to play dramaticly on a double front: on the one hand, the policy of cuts in public services, particularly in social and health services, has led to a deterioration in the specialized care and coverage of basic social needs for people with mental illness and, on the other hand, the increase in inequalities, levels of poverty, both in intensity and extent; people with more difficulties and more people with difficulties, and factors such as unemployment, reduced social protection, deterioration of public health, increased migration, loss of housing, generalization of feeling of insecurity in the future... And this is all about dramatic suicide data in Galicia, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; dramatic data. And I'm going to give the data that makes Imelga easier, which says that the number of suicides in Galicia in the last five years — 2012-2016 — has never dropped from 300. He says they were about 400 in 2014; around 350 in 2012, 2013 and 2016; and the best figures are about 2015, but still, we're talking about very high figures. I'm reading textually the report of the Imelga. It tells us that to realize the magnitude of the problem, in the last year, suicide deaths — in 2016 — were 2.44 times higher than deaths due to traffic accidents and that while Galicia has 6% of the Spanish population, we have 9.5% of suicide cases, an increase of 7.75% in 2015. We're actually talking about dramatic data. In front of that, the plan you're presenting here today begins by saying that Galicia historically has a high suicide rate, as if it were... well, Galicia has a high suicide rate, Galicia has a high level of aging, Galicia has... as if it were the victim's fault, as if it hadn't to analyze the causes and put consequences. I mean, let's start with that question. And then he makes a reference to the concern about this situation, and he says that this concern is collected in the 2006-2011 Strategic Mental Health Plan, in the Sergas Strategy 2014-2020 and in the review of the 2014 Health Priority Plan. And I'm telling you more, Counsellor, I'm telling you that the World Health Organization warned in 2011 about the risks of the crisis and that action would have to be taken. And I'm telling you more: that the same WHO at its 66th World Health Assembly in 2013 approved a plan of action and health that urged health care officials to take action. And I'm telling you more: in 2012 a professional working group in Galicia developed the Guide to Clinical Practices for the Prevention and Treatment of Addiction, which is a guide in many parts of the state but which in Galicia has not implemented any of these issues. And I'm telling you more: throughout 2016, the Galego Mental Health Movement issued a complaint about this situation on the street, released the campaign "Handled for Suicide Prevention." And it's not until this year 2017, after all these warnings, when the People's Party sets out to draw up a plan of -- I want to read it textually because it's not indifferent -- a plan to prevent suicide in Galicia. It's not the German suicide prevention plan, it's not the Welsh plan that Galicia needs to address suicide problems. It's the suicide prevention plan in Galicia, the title puts "in Galicia" because it could apply to any other part of the state. Why are you picking up this plan, Counselor? A whole series of common spaces, a whole series of reports, analyses and data collected already in all these reports that I've been setting up for you, but not part of the analysis of the situation in Galicia has neither a real realization in Galicia. We have to wait until page 29 of 57 that has the report — not 29 of 2,000 or 300, but page 29 of 57 — so that we can start to speak up about Galicia. It's a "cut and hold." Is it an advance because so far there was nothing? Okay, but, of course, you'll have to recognize me that it's not really designed or designed by a self-centered strategy in our country. It could be worth to Hanover, it could be worth practically to Murcia, it could apply to Naples, for some places, because it does an analysis of what is being done elsewhere, of the data on which I don't know how many other sides, and very little analysis of Galician reality. I'm telling you more, Counselor, you're giving this plan to a professional plan to make plans and reports, which they also privatize planning. They not only privatize strategic sectors of our health, they also put planning into private hands. That's it! Even planning is delivered to a private company. In the plan that you present to us today, with a whole series of strategic lines and measures, where are the resources?, where are the concretions?, where are the measurements on each of those strategic lines?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u59	What do you mean, Counselor? I'm going to ask you a series of questions and I hope you in your next intervention will have to answer some. First, why did they deny the problem for so long? Do you think it is possible to achieve the goal of the World Health Organization to reduce the suicide rate by 10% in 2020 when six years are behind the WHO warning? Any self-criticism about this six-year delay, Counselor? What's the schedule? What's the schedule of this plan? Because there's none there. What's the start-up schedule? What are the resources, human and material?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u61	I'm done. What's the budget? What are the budget commitments for this plan? How will accessibility improve? What are the measures to end the saturation situation on the devices? In what time frame? Counselor, you will remain self-comprehensive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u62	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u63	...it misses realism, creation and resources. I hope you're right to answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u64	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u65	...at least some of the issues I've just told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u66	You have the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, too, to all the people who accompany us today to talk about an important subject. We believe it is right to have an appearance about this even though, Counselor, you must have come to the previous plenary to talk about the Health Act. But, in any case, you choose your appearances, that's also a political priority. We believe, indeed, that this is a very necessary, very necessary plan, but we have some appreciation about it. It was necessary before, the plan comes in but it's late and it's bad. Anyway, we're going to have something, and it's enough. It should come, it's true, a complete plan. There was a plan that you blew up. It must be because everything that had strange colors or had come from strange years would have thrown it down. There was a strategic mental health plan that you didn't want to continue, but it would be necessary, it would be desirable, a complete plan, a mental health plan that could also work on a suicide prevention plan and an additive behaviour prevention plan. There are many aspects. To make a suicide prevention plan only, without a general strategy, is like trying to make a plan to operate appendicitis without having a general strategy on surgery. Sometimes it's hard to deal with only the details and not stop at full length, and you've discarded the intention of planning completely. In any case, in addition to arriving — it was said here — we wondered whether it was not necessary to consult and speak not only so as to be able to put it on paper, but to really involve the Greek professionals. Because she's an outside consultant, who probably has very good professional skills, but we wonder if there's no professionals in Greek health. You, who so much praise the Greek professionals, why don't you make them a little more case? In any case, on the plan we wanted to stop talking about its basis, the measures it proposes, what we consider to be more or less correct and some proposals. From the grounds, it surprises us why 2016 data is not considered, if any. When the plan started, they existed. What's the problem with the Immelga Data Council? Why don't you like them, or why don't you consider them? We assume it has nothing to do with making a minimal reading a little easier or lighter than the data, we don't think that could be that. But data says worrying things, because Immelga's data says we're in a community where there's an average suicide per day. And it's twice and a half traffic accidents, i.e. deaths from traffic accidents. We are faced with a serious problem, and the more up-to-date and the more critical and analytical we are with data, the more productive the plan will be. So we believe that 2016 data would be more productive, to avoid hearing things like we have a downward rate, which, according to the latest data, is not so. They descend in Lugo but increase in the collective. So we think it's important to be a little more demanding, or self-reliant. This is a plan that has already been claimed in the past legislation here and that the Government has failed; that it has been claimed, in terms of the whole state, in Congress and Senate, and has been rejected. We have WHO recommendations that have even been rejected and not listened to by this Government. Therefore, we believe that these foundations are now out of time. It's enough, but it's bad enough and it's late. In short, we believe that the foundations of this plan are a little distorted, but, in any case, if that had given way to good action, welcome would have been. What about the measurements? We believe there are three essential questions in this plan that don't fit in. Firstly, the model adopted. I'm not a clinical psychologist, but you know I'm a psychologist, and I know specialists who often put the adopted model into discussion. It's not a model of consensus in the sector, it's not a model or even a majority probably. It's not even a model that we can assume has better results than others. So why not work with better clinical models or those that professionals can freely adopt whenever they fit into natural procedures? Let's say matching a plan under a non-consensual model of work is limiting possible actions. So we think it was predictable that there might be problems, that there might be them, and we think they were resolveable. For example: why do we have to come up with a proposal from external professionals when we have a model of work such as Ourense, which you know works and that it should probably be more explored, more analysed and perhaps open up the possibility that it was exported, in positive things, to the rest of the autonomous community? We believe that with the professionals who are working there, who have been doing an unprovoked job for a long time, who have the help of professionals from other places, which is an area of work where professionals meet each other, they work very well online, they collaborate a lot, because we could have a proposal there that really wasn't done all the case should be done. We don't know very well why, and we think it's a mistake. We used to say that another one of the problems in that model is the data, too. When you're not up to date and being underestimated... there's a reality, you know it: suicide data is underestimated. Often they don't qualify, they don't label themselves, they don't diagnose themselves as suicide, they don't mark themselves as suicide cases that they are, because they're explicable from the point of view of the social taboo they suppose. There's a difficulty sometimes to assume realities. And they don't qualify themselves as such some suicide deaths that they are. We have an underestimated data problem. It's explicable from a social point of view. Is it face-to-face? Probably not dogmatic from today to tomorrow. But if we work specifically and in an analytical way on it, we have to know. We know, we have to work on it. Let's not fool ourselves into loneliness. There's data that's not helping us if we do work with them, because they're not right, and we know it. There's a media problem. This is an old debate. There's a problem with lack of resources. If we have professionals who have to attend to a large number of people a day, even in primary care, it's very difficult for them to detect some problems; capacity they would have if they had more time, if they had more ability to do it. We don't have, we don't have professionals directly in psychiatry, in mental health in general. We don't have enough professionals to meet our needs. We have a resource problem. By the way, there's a plan without a concrete economic approach. Political proposals without deadlines and without money are marketing. And this isn't a place to market. Time and money, because, if not, it's very nice to plan a program, but the only thing that's going to take money is what the program wrote. If in the end the only investment we're going to make is to pay a consultant to draft a plan, we prefer, we consider it more appropriate, to make a real investment and that there are money and resources to bet on that plan and carry it out. There's no point in making a schedule and not making a budget approach. That remains in a statement of intent, which is good for making an ad but not really to make an application plan. In any case, in addition to all these problems as regards the model, the erroneous use of data and the lack of resources, we believe that there is a problem in this plan that gets deeper and that we should correct the ones we work on in the design field of plans, in the political field — and that they demand a lot from the clinical level — that is stigmatization. There's too much cohabitation of this kind of person who commits these kinds of acts within, exclusively, the psychiatrization of the problem. Of course it's a mental health problem and there's a strong relationship, of course. But it's not the only explanation. There are other causes, there are different ideologies, often living together. There's a multi-causality of the problem and, therefore, if we just psychiatricize, we're making a reduction of the problem to an iodine of what, at most, we can fix only that iodine — and, without any resources, little -. We can fix only one issue if we don't face it from the collective. And we believe that stigmatization — even with some careless language in the plan, some parts of the language quite neglected in the plan — does not help to solve this problem. In general, the truth is that the plan is not concrete. It doesn't face reality, it doesn't propose fundamental structural changes, it doesn't propose anything substantial, it doesn't really come up with solutions, it doesn't say who's responsible for the objectives. You mentioned here objective. And if they don't do it, what, who's responsible? There's no economic nearer, and that's very hard to achieve. Are we going to ask the professionals, in addition to all the work they already have, to adapt to this model, to do this work, to meet the goals that we set them but without more resources than they have? It's very hard to think about this. From our point of view, this is a plan of stone cardboard, Counselor. It's not possible to come up with such a strategy, talk about it's ambitious, talk about it's going to solve the problem or it's going to solve it, and leave it in a mere little text. And how to say what it's done because you said one day they were going to do it. But he goes back to the Council within himself, and therefore has no solution to all the problems. Our proposals: we believe it is important to take advantage of experiences that have proved a good result, for example, that of Ourense. There are others, such as Ourense's. Pay attention to the professionals of the Galego Mental Health Movement. Thank you — very much — for them and their mobilisations today is here this plan, lots of bluffs after, lots of bluffs after. But thanks to them, this plan is here too. You can listen to us and do something more to them than they do. Insert new data. The data for 2016 are there. Incorporate us, let's analyze them. We plan completely, we design a joint strategy, that joint mental health plan that can give many solutions not only to this area but to many others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u69	I'm done. Let's put the investigation into operation. We need more research, not only on the data from those suicides that have been made, but on the attempts that have not come to an end. Because it's very important to study etiology. Those attempts are also useful information, and it is not done. We're actually betting on psychological autopsy, which is very slightly pointed but there's no really strong bet. There's a lot of research we can do and they're not doing. We fund a research group on this. It's productive even in economic terms, which is the language you often use. Even if he's already here, he's late; but at least we hope he can get along...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u71	...and some of the suggestions can be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u73	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. In our understanding, you arrive four weeks late, not saying that you're four or five years late with respect to the time that we've been asking for in this House for that German suicide care plan, and much more so that they've been appointed here—the professionals—especially all of the Galego Mental Health Moment, but even outside it, claiming specific attention to a problem that is serious, to our understanding, in Galicia. It would have been nice if you had come here — as we said publicly and also in the past full — just four weeks ago, when the Institute of Legal Medicine, the Immelga, published the suicide data for last year. Not half as bad as that. Suicides kill more in Galicia than traffic accidents and do not occupy absolutely priority space in any of the Government's plans. There is silence, a silence that is hard, a silence that is grave, which says that every day, almost every day, a person is killed in Galicia. The data from the Imega indicate 345, no less, last year in Galicia. There was a 7% increase over the previous year, and yet you did not appear when that data was offered by an institute which is also an administration, part of a public administration. It's a first-order health problem. And it does not seem, unfortunately, so relevant if this year rises by 7% — which rises by 7% — or by 5% or if another year falls by 2%, which is important, of course; but the most relevant of all is the trend, and the trend indicates — that the Immelga itself in its report, that public body — that in the last five years has at no time dropped by 300 suicide deaths per year in Galicia. The worst data, in the middle of the crisis, is 2014. The crisis. Because although Galicia has always had more suicides than other autonomous communities, as you indicated, this is not an atmospheric phenomenon. It's related to the living conditions of people as well, and also, in this case, to the worsening of those living conditions related to the economic crisis. They have already been moved here that the World Health Organization has already warned of the increase in suicides with the economic crisis and the need to protect the health of citizens and citizens by governments. But you still ignore this important ethical factor, which is the economic situation of people, and the social situation, of course. It's not on the plan. The only action they did, I think, in relation to the prevention of suicide was when Mrs. Health Counsellor by that time handed me in this very House three years ago, a clinical guide to the prevention of suicide. You didn't do any measure all these years, and much less related to those social determinants of health. Yes, because, indeed, the World Health Organization, in connection with this increase in suicides in the different countries related to the economic crisis, actually called for those social determinants of health to be addressed. I'm very heavy on this subject and I'm going to keep insisting, because there's no prevention and promotion of health in the plans of the Health Council. At least that's what the budget and activity you're doing. WHO requested that the problem of unemployment and social protection be addressed. And we still have thousands of stops in our country, with a massive increase in precariousness. 94% of the contracts signed are precarious, evidently with low wages, and 15% of the people currently working in Galicia, 15% of the total, are poor; 700,000 people live in Galicia at risk of poverty and exclusion. Is that or is it not related to a risk factor? Obviously, it's not just that, but is this or isn't related? It doesn't appear mentioned in your plan. He also asked WHO to give you the right to health. What did they give him?: Royal Decree 16/2012, exclusion, charity card to alleviate the increase in the price of medicines and compensation included — packages that are not used and people who continue without normal access to medicines —, increase in the price of medicines and, of course, reduced universality. It also asked WHO to observe aid to families related to the payment of debt, economic problems. And what did you give them? 48% increase in mortgage executions last year in our country. Are they or are they not ethical factors related to possible suicide or with possible mental health problems, Mr. Almuña? Where are the social determinants of health in the mental health plan, the impact of the economic crisis, the social and economic problems that exist not only in the crisis, but in the past? Where are they? Not listed. The poor are getting more and more beaten, and they're not included in the prevention you're doing. The basis is preventive health, and it should of course be essential. Suicide and the rest of the health problems are therefore transversal to the rest of the councils, which are not here today and are not reflected. It's not serious, Counselor. And when suicides have increased not only this year, but at two points they exceed traffic accidents, the rest of the government is not. And he should be involved in solving a public health problem, because health isn't restricted to the Health Council alone. But the problem is, there's no involvement within his own counseling, there's no involvement. Because you talk about prevention by referring only to people with mental illness or mental health problems. It has already been said here that there is stigmatization, psychiatry, of the problems that unfortunately lead to a person's choice of suicide. But, in addition, there is a fundamental problem that has already been addressed: the lack of resources linked to the plan, economic resources, staff resources, material resources. How are we going to implement this plan if there is no increase in staff to meet these needs? But you propose in your own plan that you detect the risks of people with problems that may result in an attempt to commit suicide in primary care, in the same primary care that professionals can't anymore, in which you are not covering the casualties, in which there are no staff and if you have to cover them, in which there are centers in which there are more than a week's delay to attend a primary care consultation. Some primary care professionals are in a limited position, and you pretend to be in the same conditions as the prevention of suicide. There's not a single aspect that says you're going to increase professionals in primary care and not in psychology either. We've been asking for years, asking for years here. Where's the prevention? Is it necessary to pay a psychologist or a private psychologist in order to deal with the problems they have, will they pay those people in a complicated economic and social situation? Where are they in your plan? What are you going to do about it? I'd like you to answer that. You approve this plan, or move it, without budgets, without commitment of more resources and, of course, without a mental health plan. We've been waiting for this mental health plan for eight years. Looks like you're saying they're gonna get laid now. Man!, eight years later no mental health plan... it's also time. Irresponsibility is capital, Mr. Almuña. Eight years without a mental health plan! But you're so calm. Where's the budget? So take advantage of yourself and say here whether that suicide plan and that mental health plan are going to count on an budget. Because, of course, we're at the door of him between the board budget. Will you have a specific game set so that the preventive aspects of this plan can be applied? And you're talking about childhood care, youth care. Where's that second child-child care unit that's been? I don't know how much time I'm promising, where is it? Where are the means for the first? I'd like to know. Are you going to expand that cover of psychology? Will you finally hire nurses and mental health specialists? Will there be more and better professionals to meet the mental health needs of the population? Are those basic units going to be improved? And in the case of people entering, in those suicides... we've already moved it, because we've been discussing it here this year that should be avoided. Obviously, it's not inevitable at one hundred percent, but is there going to be more staff in hospital units to reduce the risk of suicide in incoming people? Are you going to withdraw psychiatralized attention? Are you going to remove mechanical suggestions? What's your plan? Where are those resources? And by the way, I'm quite surprised and I'd like you to move in so that you can see that data from the Immelga and if you're going to do some kind of relationship, when you're setting up a Greek observatory and you're not taking that job into account, nor the work of professionals. I don't know who this observatory is going to be with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u75	In short — and I am finished — a plan related, very related, to mental illnesses, to mental health problems — when suicide obviously does not restrict itself to that — that stigma, which is obvious social problems, social determinants of health. And I'd like you to clarify if you're going to do something with the Education Council, if there's anything about bullying, if there's anything about the gender perspective, and something specific, don't give the sun, but something concrete about the budget that's going to apply. Also in the case of LGTBI people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u77	It is possible to answer the matter of budgets and, of course, why the social determinants of health are not included in this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all clear that we are facing a serious health problem of the population, of the world population, of the Spanish population and of the Greek population. Suicide rates are generally higher in countries with a higher economic level. Japan triples Spanish suicide statistics, and also in the countries of northern Europe we have the highest rates on the continent. Spain had a number of years ago ranked 54 out of a total of 101 countries that contributed figures. In 2015, it had the fifth lowest suicide rate among the 28 countries in the European Union. In the issue of mental health the Counsellor has already announced the beginning of the elaboration of the Welsh Strategic Plan of Mental Health, which, as well explained in some appearance in this Chamber, has remained in the light of the expectation of approval by the Interterritorial Council of the National Mental Health Strategy. It would not make much sense to draw up a Greek plan in front of the imminent — at least it seemed — approval of the national plan. But the opposition parties, the left parties, most of them in the Interterritorial, dropped that possibility. And that forced the Council to set hands on the work for the achievement of the Welsh Mental Health Plan. By the way, the Galego Mental Health Movement, of what has been said so much in this House, justifies in its website the refusal of the left parties to the approval of the Interterritorial Party by stating —textually — that "these communities did not approve in that organ this strategy by its content and by its elaboration in specific forms of the age of the absolute majority of the People's Party, both in autonomy and at the central level, when dialogue was despised and the rulers liked the monocolor." They mean that the plan was not approved because it was a People's Party plan. It seems clear that this movement does not tune with my party and does something, or seems to do, politics with public health. But we're used to it, Counselor. The Socialists and the BNG derogated Losga, approved in 2003 by a People's Party government, because it was a People's Party law. And they approved in 2008 the Galician Health Act, which the opposition intends that it cannot be changed, denying the legitimacy of this group to adapt this law, which is almost ten years old, to demographic and geographic circumstances, and adapting it to the regulatory changes that have taken place. This plan to prevent Galician suicide — you explained — has been developed with the collaboration of a large number of experts who have participated in its drafting. Not everyone wanted to, some collective seems to have left the meetings on their initial dates. I guess they'll know why they did it. The Galego Mental Health Movement states in the press that the plan is insufficient, that the problem of suicide is psychiatricized, but at the end it has to recognize that this plan represents a significant advance in the prevention of this serious public health problem. I don't see where this plan is, of course, when the word psychiatry does not appear in the whole document, and if the term mental health, as a multidisciplinary activity, with optional, nursing staff, psychologists and social workers. In a 2015 parliamentary debate, we talked about suicides, and I said that suicide was becoming absolute demagogy: they always tried to associate crisis and autolysis. You know -- and I've already said it here -- that there is no definitive scientific study that relates the increase in suicide cases to the economic crisis situation. It is a subject long debated in scientific literature, in which no consensus of any kind has ever been reached. Here it seems that it was and it is about blaming this theoretician and dubious increase in the number of suicides to the policies of the People's Party. It seems to me pure and harsh demagogy, Counselor. About 95% of suicides exist at least one psychiatric disorder. You also know that raw and unstandardised rates are being used, mainly because they are not adjusted by age. Gross rates that are not suitable for comparison between different populations and periods of time. A study published in the Spanish Journal of Psychiatry and Mental Health in 2014 reflects the difficulty of studying the epidemiology of suicide in Spain. It even claims that the figures since 2013 are higher because until then the legal medicine institutes -- we speak here about the Immelga -- were not accessible to the National Institute of Statistics. The correction of this circumstance has made data reliability more sensitive, but it has also increased differences with previous years, by raising total figures in recent years. If we used standardized rates in Galicia between 1975 and 2013, the year in which they reached the maximum value was in 1993, and between 2009 and 2014 the highest was in 2012, with 11.6%. Over the years 1987, 1988, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1998 and 2003. According to the trend, in Galicia the rate standardized in suicides increased in the 1980s, decreased in the early 1990s, and follows a slightly downward trend in the last decade. Of course, this evolution — not as catastrophic as if it were meant to make us see it — does not mean that our public health does not have to fight for the reduction of all these rates, and to advance on that objective, you present this suicide prevention plan in Galicia, Counsellor. As we said before, it's a plan developed with the collaboration of professionals, scientific societies and those who wanted to do it. A plan that you have degraded with the seven strategic lines and the 37 measures, of which, of course, you have not talked about in the interventions, and which include, you said, coordination among all the institutions involved. We think it's very important that they participate not in health care, but in education, social policy, justice, the media, bodies and security forces of the state, in the elaboration of the protocol and the dissemination of it. The second, raising awareness, raising awareness and decreasing social stigma, with particular attention to news published in the media in relation to suicide, and trying to encourage good practices and to encourage the non-dissemination of reports that encourage or could promote such practices. It includes monitoring and alerting on websites and social networks at that point — a problem we all know. In my view of this strategic line, I would like to highlight the measure of information and awareness regarding the problem on the institutional website of Sergas. We think today people are looking at a lot of health problems over the Internet, and we think the Sergas page and the institutional pages are the ones that have to fight against this campaign of misinformation and bad practices that we are living in. At the third point, prevention and approach of the suicide consultation, which must ensure a rapid response of attention to these patients at risk. We consider it very important, Counselor, to be aware of the response times of the system in the face of this process so that we can act on delays and reduce them by means of action protocols, or perhaps by means of rapid pathways, as exist for other pathologies. Other measures to be highlighted in this line could be the assessment of risk in primary care, in hospital services, in emergency services, mainly, and in patients not only entering mental health; the improvement of early detection of affective disorders and alcohol consumption; and the development of protocols of derivation in all areas, in the health field, but also in the educational and social fields, and all this has to contribute to ensuring the continued care of these patients at risk of suicide. We believe that here can be important for phone calls and follow-up via the phone, in a way similar to that of Connect 72, which is giving such good results in hospital discharges. We consider it important and very interesting the psychotherapeutic interventions, both individual and group, and the implementation of a safety plan between the patient and the professional. Patients at risk of suicide should be informed. Professionals have to lose fear of reporting and talking to the sick and patients at risk of suicide. The suicidal idea is a more symptom of depression, such as insomnia, how anxiety can be, or how somatizations can be, and it has to be seen. We must speak and not escape; we must speak to the affected. We must edit and disseminate guides, on the one hand, for the sick and the family, and on the other, for professionals. The guides have to be concise, they have to be easy to understand and they have to serve for a quick consultation. We must limit — as you have said — access to lethal means, which is tremendously difficult many times, especially in drugs and chemicals, toxic products. We must train professionals in prevention and intervention on suicide behaviour; in health care, of course, but also — as we said before — in social policy professionals, education, security forces, intervention bodies, firefighters, emergency personnel, media and other social agents. Even here you could talk about entrepreneurs and unions to identify risk factors and alert signs. Posvention to the survivor, associationism, specific care and professional reintegration of these people. And finally, the epidemiological alert investigation on suicide behavior. We need to collect and analyse data that helps us make decisions based on scientific evidence. You must improve the record of these episodes in health services and death statistics, also promoting, as Mr. Torrado said, psychological autopsies. In this latter strategic line, it can help in the medium term identify risk factors, but also precipitating factors and protective factors. It's very important to unify criteria. And the research is the one that will allow you to reach the core of the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u81	We think it's an ambitious plan, a complete plan, not easy to develop in each and every one of the fields, including some of the health care professionals, but we also know the dedication and effort of the professionals of the Galician Health Service, who will undoubtedly collaborate to help reduce the incidence of suicide in Galicia. From the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Galicia we thank the work of all the professionals who have participated in the elaboration of this plan and of all the scientific associations and societies that have contributed their experiences and knowledge to bring this complete document to reality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. You have a shift of reply to Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that, after listening to the initial interventions by the opposition groups, you draw attention that I think you have not studied what this document is, and I think it is a very important document that needs everyone's cooperation. Words are used, as always, to use on any subject, and I don't think it should be the subject of suicide something of this political war of advertising and marketing. I think talking about cuts, talking about privatization, is always talking about it, but I think this is such a sensitive subject that we should get away from them. To say that planning is privatized because there is a company that does it is to collect all the contributions of all the -- most numerous -- groups that are here to make the chain and an edition, it seems to be trying to confuse those who want to be confused. I think we should be a little more serious and try to study the document in depth. I think he's got a lot of positive things. I also find it difficult for us to get into debates between ourselves, the parliamentarians, about the causes of suicide. It seems to me that it's a very complex thing, and of course specialists have difficulty reaching those causes. What if there are a number of factors that are there, in that situation, and, as the spokesperson for the People's Party said, it has not been shown that the economic crisis is one of them. The truth is that trying to unite countries in northern Europe like Sweden or Switzerland, with similar figures to the Germans, does not seem to be the economic problem to be the determining cause. What they should study is the curves of death and suicides, which increase exponentially from a given age, that's what there is. Mrs. Prado, we don't deny the problem at all. We come here and say reality, the data are what they are. Certainly, as the spokesperson for the People's Party, Dr. Núñez, sometimes they're not as reliable as we want, but by different criteria of registration. Sometimes Imelga's people take longer to comply with state legislation, which is what comes to our end. But it doesn't matter, we consider it an important problem and that's why we're working. We're the second autonomy that makes a suicide prevention plan. That was not noticed by any of the opposition's members. I think if we say there's a problem, and we're second, behind the Valencian Community... in the world there's a lot of countries with problems, and yet only 28 have a prevention plan. So I think it has to be said that this government has a clear problem and it is beginning to lay the groundwork for reducing suicides in our society, which is what we all want. It's also said that this plan seems to have been done by two people, one from the company and another from the Council without more. I think it's not, you have to congratulate precisely the involvement of all professionals. The opposition quotes the Galician Public Health Movement, which seems to me to be a movement that, logically, is trying to improve the situation. But, curiously, the opposition does not name either the Galaga Psychiatry Association or the Galaga Mental Health Association, nor the Spanish Association of Nursing and Mental Health, nor the Galaga Association of Family and Community Nursing, in addition to the Spanish Emergency Society, nor does it give any importance to the active participation of the Federation of Family Associations of Persons with Mental Disease in Galicia, and I think it is a mistake, because they are an important part of the contributions that have been made. So all the collectives were invited, too, the Galego Mental Health Movement, who was at a meeting and then didn't want to continue. And, of course, the final document was also sent to all participants so they could make proposals. Some did more than others, but it was a transparent and open document. Of course, we continue and we want to continue to improve everything we can, because I think that like all of us, like the opposition, we are trying to reduce the suicide rate in Galicia, so we should do it. We always say, yes, it's good that there is, but it's late. We're not going to talk about times now. I think, as we said, we always have to be working. And this also refers to the Greek Plan on Mental Health. I think it's been explained here. Unfortunately there was no political will on the Interterritorial Council, a year ago, to bring it forward, after three years of work. That wasn't a People's Party document, it was a document that had made all the professionals in Galicia and all the autonomous communities to do something coordinated, together. We think that's important. We also think you can pick up again, do it again and keep going. We, of course, are working as fast as we can to make a good German mental health plan and keep working on it. When I said I don't think they'd read the document, it's because they just asked me what we're going to do in education. This is line 1 of the document: the creation of an interdepartmental coordinating commission, with representatives from different sectors of society involved in the prevention of suicide, which promotes, supervises and approves the implementation in the educational system of a protocol for the prevention and interpretation of suicide risk in the educational field, which will be integrated into the Welsh Strategy of School Coexistence 2015-2020, under the follow-up of the Council for School Coexistence of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. It was also said that there was no investigation, that nothing was proposed in the investigation. For us, research is very important. At line 7 we talk about epidemiological research and alertness on suicidal behavior, and we say that epidemiological investigation and alert pose an important tool in the prevention of suicide, since it allows the collection of data, analysis and evaluation of them, helping to make decisions based on evidence. The most relevant measure of this strategic line is to create the Galego Observatory of Suicide, which will be the body responsible for disseminating scientific knowledge generated in this matter. It will also provide support for the planning of new research and updating actions for knowledge and skills of professionals. As a way to promote and support research projects in Galicia on suicide behaviour, priority will be given to including suicide research lines in autonomic calls. The adaptation of the electronic system and epidemiological surveillance to improve the statistical processing of suicide records and the implementation of research programs focused on the development of psychological autopsies. Of course we believe in research, but we also present innovation projects. Not long ago, Fotoboys thought he had a very important success because he worked with young people about depression in adolescence, sometimes very difficult to diagnose. And through the photograph they were able to diagnose cases that were complicated, and even the photograph serves the therapeutics of this. This is an innovation project done here in Galicia by our professionals. It seems to me that trying to put down a document simply because there are differences within such a large and important collective...! Of course, we want to enrich the documents. We heard the Ourense professionals, but also those in the Coruña, Vigo and Lugo, exactly the same, and they all gave their ideas to try to improve this document. I think it's important. When at the end of the discussion, if you want to lead to that, to a subject of which you are stoneboard, if you are cuts, if you are privatising... and leaving aside the really important thing, that — as I say — is to reduce the suicide rate, I think we are losing a little bit of the north of the importance of our task. And also say that sometimes it's used, and used this morning, the debate about suicides. It seems like it was a debate about the state of Autonomy, absolutely all the councils have been analyzed. I said it at first, of course it's a social problem, of the whole society, but it's not just to use it as a political weapon of attack. We see that trends have to be taken many years in advance; we can't make trends for two or three years, but for many more. And, of course, recognizing the reality that we have, that problem, and the German Government is putting everything on, and it will continue to put it on, to do it. We have a few assumptions in the near future, where, of course, we are going to incorporate improvements in the field of mental health, and we will be able to analyze and discuss it at that time. But today we are to analyze a document made from a broad area of Greek society — professionals but also family members and patients of the sickness—and, of course, we will continue to work on it, at its best — as I say — with a single objective, a goal of improvement at all levels. I would therefore like us to continue to make the improvements needed by all the groups to, as I say, deal with an important problem for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u84	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u85	Thank you, President. I'm just going to make a little reference starting with the intervention of the People's Party Member, who said here that we need to talk more to the patients, explain the risks... here in the gallery there are union representatives of the workers and workers, who are accompanying us today following this... then I'd like you to tell them what they're going to do in terms of work, whether they're going to increase their ratios, if they're going to make replacements, what is the job situation of certain contracts, so they can have that time and dedication to talk to the patients. Because it's very good to get together here saying what to do, but works are love, and not good reasons. The question is, what resources? I asked the counsellor about the schedule, about the commitments. What are the commitments, in addition to presenting this document here? What do you commit to this document? What are the timeline commitments? When will it start? What resources? What are the budgetary commitments going to be? Within nothing will budgets enter for the year 2018 in this Parliament, are you going to see a budgetary commitment in those budgets to make this plan something more than a painting as you wish? Those are the issues that we want to know about the BNG and which you want to know about the Galician society, which you have the right not to be deceived. They also drew a lot of breast here saying it's a concern for everyone. It will be a concern, now, little occupation, little occupation! because it took them to accept that there was a problem. They have consistently voted against this Parliament, there is the Diary of Sessions. They voted against taking steps to put a solution to it, against seeking measures and addressing the issue. There were no professionals who had to go out on the street continuously to denounce the situation in order to raise awareness of the society that there was a problem. And in front of that, you come six years later, at least, to say you're doing something. With which, I ask you again: commitments? Because there's no budgetary commitment, no deadline commitment. And we here don't see the willingness to take suicide with the seriousness that the gravity of the situation, of course, requires. Since it wasn't going to be otherwise, a Popular Party advisor came to say that we are champions, that we are the first or the second to bring in a plan to pass. Well, the truth is, they can almost happen to any of those autonomous communities, because, Counselor, I've studied the plan, I have it here underlined, marked. I studied it for active and passive. And when you say you have to give an answer, for example, interinstitutional coordination, and they say, "The plan proposes the creation of an interdepartmental commission," as not specifically in Galicia, as it does not say which departments, as it does not say that people, as it does not say that institutions, as they do not say when they start, as they don't put names and surnames, can happen to any of those autonomous communities because they are worth them perfectly. And we can continue, throughout the document, to see where Galician reality is in this plan. He's not! It's a cut and take analysis already done earlier. You speak, for example, of prevention and approach to suicide in strategic line 3: ensuring a rapid and effective response to the care of patients at risk of suicide and mental health. And they talk about realising the time of derivation between primary care and mental health. How are they going to do it in Galicia? How will they do it? Are they going to allocate resources to primary care? Are you going to do something so primary care isn't the big damage to its cuts? They don't like word clippings, they don't like word privatization, but will they change? Are they still cutting? Will they continue to eliminate personnel? Will there be decent ratios? Are you going to put resources so that what you put here on paper in general, which can be worth anywhere, is a reality in Galicia? These are very specific questions, Counselor. These are very specific questions that are derived from the analysis of this plan that you present here without concretion, which is a painting as you wish. It's a virtual plan that goes for one thing: to cover the record of what it looks like they're doing something. Is it a step more than what was so far? Yeah, until now, not even. So far they voted against doing something, they now put forward a plan. Now they present a plan without budgets, no schedule, no planning, no evaluation... how will it be evaluated? How many times will you come to this Parliament to see how this plan is being implemented, Counselor? Every six months? Every year? Those are the things that you should be here to explain to us today, not to come and read a plan that actually has it hanging on the page, we've had access to it, we've printed it, we've analyzed it and we've opposed it. So what I'd like to say to you is, when, when you're going to start with what resources, who, with what names and surnames, what department. It's so complicated to put on a plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u87	who's gonna be part of that interdepartmental conglomerate, who's gonna put on who, what general address, what subdirectories, what people? That would mean a desire to start and take it seriously, not to dump here a series of generalities. He didn't answer any of the questions I asked him. He didn't answer me. I guess you don't have any answers. So, the conclusion is that you're not going to be provided with budgets, that there's no schedule...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u89	...and they won't take it seriously. Of course, the situation of being the worst suicide data we have in the Spanish state would deserve a government that was up to the circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. We opened a new political course, now the spokesperson of the People's Party does not oppose the opposition, it opposes the collectives in the rostrum. It's a good way to do things! I remind you of the last session: there's no talk of people who can't go out here talking. Argumental coherence is an issue we have already abandoned! But it's okay, so at least let them leave us alone for a while, even though they give it to others who stand up for it and work well for it, better than those who are here. Some things have basically been said in which I think it's important to deepen. At least in the debate some subjects were raised gratefully to the ones we brought here some questions. At least something they answered. I think in the answers there was some inaccuracy and I'm going to try to put it into debate. It has been said that the word psychiatry and psychiatry are not cited in the text, and that it is therefore difficult to talk about stigmatization. Well, two things. First, to stigmatize it is not necessary to mention. Second, between the word psychiatry and psychiatry, you quote yourself 18 times. But, well, so nobody goes out here saying that they never quote the word... 18! Let's see if we cut ourselves a little bit when we come here and tell lies, it's important. Second. I did not speak curiously, and with intent not to enter into a deep academic debate, of suicide and crisis. You can look for it, Mr. Núñez, who's opening the plan. They actually quote more, but some are to name only charges of people, 18!, I already tell them, but with Ctrl+F in Adobe you can watch it. Suicide and economic crisis. I did not enter that debate because I believe that, as it was said here, it is a more technical, academic and interpretative debate. But since you come in to make a critique and also if you tell us that we don't read the plan... you, on the only page they're dedicated to this, quote several studies that relate to the economic situation and suicides. They make a spectacular argumental pirate to say they're not conclusive data. What's better in this case? Go to the published articles. And it is very easy, Rivera, Casal and Currais, 2017 – it is published internationally, good magazine – and I quote literally: "High implications between economic decline and increased unemployment with the suicide ratio". And I literally quote again: "The economic crisis suffered by Spain in recent years has played a key role in high suicide rates." And all this in the abstract. If a deep in the article, demolition! And these are articles from Welsh researchers that you quote, page 31. How can you deny here something that you quote in the plan? Let's see if it's going to be that those who don't read the plan are not the spokespersons of the opposition, see if it's going to be! Because you disagree on the same plan. And yes, we consider — the truth is that the explanations were not enough — that is a clearly plan of stoneboard. We haven't heard any explanation about the zero budget game. And I think I wasn't strong enough on the first occasion: a strategic plan without deadlines or budget split is pure propaganda. Can you advertise? Yes, but I would expect the explanations, Counselor, with what I agreed, that there is no need to raise awareness, hypersensitivity or make sensationalism on this subject... and to avoid making sensationalism, what we have to do is not give easy speeches here without real commitments, because that's politics, making commitments that change people's life models and the situation of people's lives. That's politics. By the way, I'm surprised we're accused of being political. Oh, miracle, it's a Parliament! Of course we do politics! Of course he has a political perspective! Of course we have to talk about clippings! With less staff, you'll get less. With less infrastructure, it gets worse. If there is no budget allocation in a plan, it is applied worse or not applicable. And that's clearly cutbacks, and that's political. Counselor, you do politics, too. I don't know if you're ashamed of the politics you do, but I do politics honorably. I humbly believe we have the right to make politics, I would miss it more! But it's a Parliament! Of course, to me if I'm accused of doing politics...! Man, so far I've been accused of several things, but if I come here to do politics, it's an accusation...! Of course, there are cuts in the health system and of course this affects the ability to properly care for citizens, including those affected by this serious problem. And if we don't put means, among them putting economic resources to get more personal, we're going to treat them worse. So what we say is that this plan is late, but if it still has no budget allocation, it gets bad and it's not worth anything, but that to get up here and make a press release, and that's what seems horrible to us, terrible! And I'm missing some adjectives. In short, it's not only card-stone, but the explanation makes it worse. Yes, I know that research is very nice to talk about, but we've proposed a research working group to really know the data, the etiology; to know whether that really is what you're discussing about the causes is true or not; to really know that it happened not only with those suicides that happened and that are analyzed, but with those attempts, that it's very important to know about the attempts and we don't know. And really, not to have to talk about how you can do psychological autopsies well, but what you do, really, correctly. That's all proposals that I haven't heard from, either.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u93	...—I'm finished—a lot of ideas. And finally, a plan that has 6 paragraphs, on 58 pages -- 6 paragraphs! -- about evaluation; without any concretion, without any time frame, without any person, without any determinant of who will make the evaluation: how, under what criteria, when, what are the issues to be evaluated and what are the consequences. Without that there is no evaluation; no evaluation there is no politics; no politics is only propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u94	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u95	Thank you, President. Several previous considerations. In the first, he hardly responded to anything. It gives me the feeling that what you don't know much about the plan is you, perhaps because you didn't do it at the Health Council and that private company. A second consideration. The truth is, I liked your clarification on the subject of the company, although it does not have much to do with the content of the plan, because it seems normal to you to your work, your work! —you are a counselor—doing a private company is quite attractive and gives indication of what you understand about the responsibilities of the public administration. Another consideration is also the content of the intervention of the spokesperson of the People's Party. Now the reason we haven't made a plan all these years is that the Central Government didn't approve a previous plan. Hey! Less hairskin jacket! Less ton of hair because health is transferred. See if you're going to defend in health also the recentralization of competences, because it seems we have to wait for the Central Government to move an apex in competences that belong to the Council of Galicia, without prejudice to any further indications. What's wrong? If the ministry doesn't do anything, here's nothing approved, doesn't it move a finger to make any prevention plan of absolutely nothing? Anyway. You don't like to talk about the crisis, you don't like to talk about the cuts, because obviously you're using another kind of terminology. Perhaps it would be more appropriate that, rather than cuts, we talked about economic declines in budget items; perhaps you felt more comfortable in that debate. But we're not going to do it because the problem is we're talking about real problems, problems in life, and if you don't want to talk about social determinants, socio-economic problems, and how they influence as ethical factors in a possible suicide, we're talking about other agents. You also talked about alcoholism and drugs. It's interesting that they have included it in the plan and yet they've been cutting for years since 2009. Don't you want to talk about socio-economic factors? We're talking about the cuts in the Health Council itself. Of course, of course, we have a problem! 17% less in the prevention and promotion of health. How long have we been reporting here that some associations have had to close, when they were the ones who cared for people and those who did prevention, because you still don't even assume precisely that it is the Health Council who has to provide that prevention and promotion in the area of drug addiction and alcoholism? Of course, of course! Let's talk about it! We're talking about what resources there will be for these means and why they will follow the cuts year after year, why no games will be increased. Or we spoke, as we already did, as I did in the previous intervention, of primary care. 21% less budget. By what means will the plan be implemented? On the paper, uh, not in real terms. I'm telling you about the nominal terms, what's on the paper. Home!, when the staff situation is the one that is in primary care, we could certainly understand this plan. I don't know if it's like cardboard stone or a smoke curtain, when you're really not going to put any more means -- or you, at least here, didn't respond to what we asked you, we're going to see in the budgets -- so that these and other preventive plans can be applied. You could also take care of the increase in anxiolytics that the primary care professionals have been giving in recent years. Of course, but this has to do with socio-economic conditions, it can be or not. But what's going on? If you don't want to relate the cuts, if you don't want to relate to the crisis, which is obviously obvious that a person's socio-economic situation affects his or her animal state, in which I think we will agree — or at best not, if you never know — why don't you encourage research but really, not that role? Why don't you use the amendment of the Galician Health Act 8/2008 to improve the research situation and, however, withdraw the Welsh Research Plan? Why do you facilitate the intrusionism of private companies and there is no public research plan in primary care, in specialized care or even in the Social Policy Council, because many aspects do not depend only on the Health Council? You don't want to talk about anything else, but this is a cross-cutting problem. He complains it's a debate about the state of the nation. Well, here you measure how little you care about the prevention and application of these social determinants, because health is not restricted only to the health system, Mr. Almuña. And with those words that you moved here, with that opinion, it becomes clear what your model is: simply the model away from prevention; the model centered on medicalization; the model centered on hospital centrism; and the distant model that all advisories have to do with because the living conditions of people obviously condition their health situation, mental health, mental health as well, also from the anemic situation. Of course, there are a lot of ethical factors, and not only social and economic factors, and of course not just drug use, but that's why we moved that we needed a cross-sectional implication. The only thing in the plan is the creation of observatories, commissions and a series of new bodies that are undefined, which do not involve a later solution, which there is no budget and, of course, we understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u97	...and I will finish now—that you do not intend to improve the situation, of course, of mental health, of care and prevention, which must be — I say — cross-sectional. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u99	Thank you, President. When Mrs Prado spoke in her first speech about the high incidence of history in Galicia, I think there must be a plan because there is a problem, the historical incidence of suicide in Galicia is collected in a book by Professor Quintanilla de Ferrol 30 years ago at least. I mean, they're especially high. If we have to make a plan, it's because there's one problem, it's nothing else. When I was talking now about talking to the sick, talking to the sick isn't, it's talking about the problem. I mean, you don't have to hide, as you've done for many years, or try to escape from talking to the sick about the suicide problem. It's a theme of action, it's not a theme of another type. Mr. Torrado spoke a lot about the Ourense model, but there are other models. There's a model in Ferrol, a performance system; there's another one in Coruña. I don't know you have the Ourense model you don't have the others. It's actually the model that was studied, but there's more. And he also conducted here a study on suicide-crisis relationships. I think if I had done a review, it would come to the same conclusion that I've reached or that experts have arrived, that there is no consensus, or much less, on that subject, that's described. I just checked -- and I handle the document that's on the web, I don't handle another document -- with the searcher, and once the word "psychiatric" appears, when it says: attempted suicide is one of the main causes of demand for attention in psychiatric care services. I didn't find it anymore. I really don't know what the document is handling. That's what I'm handling. Mrs. Solla was saying that no action had been taken against suicide. The counsellor reported what was done in the different EOXI in relation to it. And referring to the Mental Health Plan, I'm the only one who said it makes little sense to draw up a Greek plan with an ongoing national strategy. It doesn't mean you can't do it, but it doesn't make much sense because you'd have to sort it out. To talk like you've been talking here about solving the suicide problem to me seems tremendously daring. I think we all have to fight for reducing the incidence of this situation, which is quite important. Counselor, we listen to criticism, we listen to evas, is what we hear here every day in full, isn't it? And we believe that there is a Greek public health that citizens are proud of and that all professionals, from you to the last that was hired today, we have an obligation to collaborate to improve every day, updating to new demographic circumstances, technical advances and constant research into new pathologies and therapies, with the work of everyone. And you always have to do it in the face of favoring people. Of course, I think that if you could listen to all the things you are asking for in this Parliament, you would be the only adviser, there would be no more, because I think there would be no more budget than the Health Council, the rest would have to disappear. We think that this plan is an ambitious plan, which is a complete plan, that, as we said, it is not easy to develop, at least, in each and every one of the fields, including non-healthy ones, but I, knowing the dedication and effort of all and each of the professionals of the Galician Health Service, I am very clear that professionals will collaborate — or we will undoubtedly collaborate — to help reduce the incidence of suicide in Galicia. And I reiterate my thanks to all the professionals who have participated in the elaboration of this plan; to associations and societies that have provided experiences and knowledge to make this complete document come true. We think the collaboration of other advisors is important, and, above all, I want to emphasize here the participation of patients and their families, the participation of Feafes. These patients who are at other times so unconsidered by opposition groups, Mr. Counsellor, who are more concerned or concerned at times with other collectives than with patients. I find it particularly important to review this plan also by experts from the rest of the state. It has been reviewed, as you said, by the psychiatric societies of Galicia, University of Oviedo, Valencia, Andaluz Health Service, Nursing societies and primary care. Listening to Mrs. Prado's words about the suicide plan in Galicia gives the impression that the Greek suicide plan doesn't like him very much or that it doesn't seem right to you, or that it might even bother you to participate in people outside of Galicia. We, of course, from the People's Party, applaud that collaboration. We appreciate the work of all those who want to give. The plan's goal — you're right — has to achieve a decrease in absolute numbers and corrected suicides. This will only be possible by establishing coordination mechanisms that make possible the sum of efforts of all the bodies involved working together in the prevention, management of interventions and in the support of people with autolytic attempts and those around them. With this document, Counselor, you are fulfilling your commitment here in March of this year. We expect their development with the material and personnel resources needed to combat this serious health problem in Galicia, if we compare it with the rest of the state communities, it has always had an important impact. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u100	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close this show, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I think today is an important day. The presentation here before the parliamentarians of this suicide prevention plan in Galicia is important. Mark one before and one after, something requested by society, and above all marks the involvement not only of professionals but, as we said, of patients and family members. That's very important. We're going to highlight the seven strategic lines, the 37 measures that we're going to launch: Line 1, institutional coordination in the face of suicide, giving special consideration to the education system and social services. A line 2 of awareness, reconciliation and reduction of social stigma associated with suicide, with a style guide that we will be able to present to you in the near future. A line 3 of prevention and approach to suicidal behaviour, where we are going to achieve essentially an optimization of information and also an essential aspect, which is to affect the detection of mental disorders, especially the major depressive disorder and alcohol abuse. A line 4 of limiting access to lethal means, seeing the different mortality that exists according to the procedure, for example, between poisonings and firearms, and the limitation to everything that can cause the death of the patient. It's very important with that detection of black suicide points and trying to prevent access to them. A line 5 of training professionals in the prevention and intervention of suicide behaviour. A 6 line of survivor possession. A 7 line of epidemiological research and alertness on suicides, through this Galego Observatory of Suicide — which we will describe the people who are going to intervene in it later on — will be described. We have to develop all aspects of this plan, but, as I say, it is an important day for us, a day when Galicia becomes the second autonomous community to have a document of these characteristics, after Valencia, which presented its plan last May, barely four months ago. Today, nothing more than 28 countries have a national suicide prevention strategy. Since the Health Council, we want to point out that the most frequent mental illnesses are treatable and in many predictable cases, so it is important to advise the population about signs that lead to people making contact with health services. Ladies and gentlemen, the strength of this document lies in the consensus between different professionals, entities, societies, patient associations, who were able to agree on a suicide prevention plan that must transcend the line of health and institutional care, reaching the social and community level. As the experts tell us, without the participation of society — we, together — in the prevention of suicide no plan would succeed. In this respect, the Health Council is proud to be able to develop an integrative prevention plan, and we are also striving to have expert advice on suicide, which gave more value to this document. Your Honor, we have been working for a long time, and with this plan we will continue to do it, always with the patient as the center of the health system, listening to professionals and from the consensus of all. The final goal we want has been repeated throughout this morning: the decline in the suicide rate in Galicia, and for that we all have to be able to enrich this document and future planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u102	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the meeting until four, until 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u103	Good afternoon. Let us resume the session with point 4, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Ms. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the current model for the prevention and extinction of forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u104	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u105	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Public policies carried out in rural areas over the past few years have proved insufficient for the prevention and extinction of fires, starting first by the abandonment of rural areas, the lack of investment in public services, reforestation by short-cycle alkton species — which today account for more than 50% of our forest area when in 1987 it reached only 3% — abandonment and lack of care, as well as a policy based on extinction and not prevention. There is today in the Government of Wales only a productive speech of the mountain which is negative in social terms and in environmental terms, but also insufficient and precarious in economic terms. That's why we need to change our policies of protecting the territory, preventing and extinguishing fires, moving towards a policy of protecting and preserving the Galician mountain as a fundamental part of our social and economic being. Today In Marea we present this motion with 9 points that we believe are essential to put an end to the logging of forest fires in our country. In point 1 we asked to end the atomization of the fire prevention and extinction device and to resume control of the firecracker the device of the Public Service for Defence against Forest Fires. A detailed analysis of the incendiary developments and the effectiveness of the Galician forest fire prevention and extinction device in Galicia, using the data from the Ministry of the Environment, has come to the conclusion: the fire activity in Galicia is the highest in all the national territory, with average data of nearly 10,000 fires to the year 2005 and with an average area by fire of 2.7 hectares; data showing the highest effectiveness of the public device, which up to these dates was almost 70% of the overall device. As of 2005, and during the next sex year, there is a significant decrease in fire activity, reducing the total number of fires by almost 10,000 fires a year, to only 4,600 fires a year on average. But, curiously, this period increases the burnt area by fire, from 2.7 hectares to 6.2 hectares. As of 2011, and until 2015, fire activity is reduced, but, curiously enough, the burnt surface ranges from 4.7 hectares/light to 5.2 hectares/light, with quite favorable weather data, again removing the rates of efficiency of the worst incendiary season of Galicia. This requires a deep analysis of the matter, of which we perceive four main causes. First of all, the weight of the public fire extinguishing service on the total device, which, in Galicia's worst incendiary years, rose to 82% of the total of the device, to date, where it represents only 40%. So we understand that starting in this way the device results in a worse effectiveness of the device, so as an alternative we consider the total return of the device against forest fires to the hands of the Union. Secondly, climate change and increased fuel load, which can create potentially more destructive fires, causing major complications to the extinguishing device. Thirdly, the decrease in air media extinction capacity due to a gradual decrease in transported water, being very clear in medium-type helicopters, which is going from 1,500 litres to the current 1,200 litres, or even less, due to the limitation of load, which can be perceived visually, due to the strangulation of the so-called babies. During 2016, according to official data from the Ministry of the Environment, we found some positive data: like the significant reduction in the number of fires; but we have observed two curious things: first, that the total surface area is 21,000 hectares, this means an area burned by fire of almost 9 hectares, which is the highest given in the last 28 years. This loss of device effectiveness seems to be worrying to us. At the same time, of the 22 large forest fires that occur in Spain, 8 were in Galicia, 7% of the state's surface. So something serious is happening in the territory of our country when a most frequent fire typology in other parts of the Spanish State is beginning to happen very often here. We must improve the capacity for the extinction of the air media, as we said, by means of higher water capacity. Interestingly, in our country we lack heavy and efficient helicopters, with high stability in very wind conditions, such as the Kamovs, and they can download up to about 5,000 liters of water. We call for increased surveillance and deterrence through surveillance tapes, closed to date, and re-enter mobile watch brigades into the service, replacing operation Centinela, which is an important expense and we believe that very high for the work they do. We know the data given by the Army in its successful firefighting campaign in Galicia this year 2017, and they've detected about 150 fires. This figure is achieved in one day with a high risk of forest fires and adverse weather conditions, nothing new. The dismantling of the service being carried out by the People's Party has led to a significant reduction in surveillance capacity, by closing more than 50% of the fixed monitoring points, often leaving only 085 the only element of information about fires to the device. We call for an analysis table to study the new typology of fires, much more dangerous and complex, such as the fourth and fifth generation fires and the convective type fires. The fight against fires must be based on an integrated strategy, in which owners, administrations, etc., have clear competences, so that adaptations can be carried out in an organized and coordinated manner, progressively ensuring that preventive actions are more important within the overall planning to fight forest fires. We must create precise protocols for the performance of such much more dangerous and destructive fires. Work tables and negotiations with civil society; work tables and negotiations with the majority of society. We need a model that lasts over time and that is a fruit of consensus between social agents, business agents and political agents. Development of a constant policy of information and dissemination of these protocols and of emergency plans between the population, which includes periodic checks, training, carrying out exercises and simulations, and review and updating of available equipment and media. We must establish restraints, 3 per province minimum, as they are very operational, both day and night, for the control of high-speed fires. On 18 September a week ago, a resolution of 6 September of the General Technical Secretariat of the Council of the Rural Environment was published in the Official Journal of Galicia, making it public the formalization of 10 joint fire prevention contracts and a heavy machinery holding service for the extinction of forest fires co-financed at the 2014-2020 RDP with FIDER funds. It is clear that prevention is one of the fundamental bases in the fight against forest fires. It is defined as a set of actions aimed at eliminating the risks that may arise from fires and their spread. The Plan for the Prevention of the Directorate-General for Forest Management includes regulation of the use of fire and sociological and environmental education actions, preventive warning systems, preventive forestry, creation and improvement of defence infrastructures and improvement of forest management and their productions, so as to increase the value of the mountain. The aim of the prevention plan is to carry out actions to prevent fire from occurring, and, if it happens, minimize the damage caused by its spread. To achieve these objectives, the prevention plan is structured according to the Pladiga through actions directed at the population and actions directed towards the territory. All of this, what was the reason why these contracts were not made in the spring, before the high-risk season of fires? What will heavy machinery holds do for the extinction of forest fires when the thick forest fires have passed? Don't you think an investment in prevention of around EUR 1,800,000 would be much more effective if it had been made before the beginning of summer? We must apply specific training for Galician forest firefighters to the multi-emergency of the previously specified typologies. Since 2015, different trade unions have required specific training for workers and public service workers, since, throughout all this time, the education and training of their workers in a fundamental and priority service for the population, and that in the performance of their functions they often live with high-risk situations. The new Civil Protection Act, in particular in its Article 17, includes the Forest Fire Prevention and Extinction Service as intervention services and assistance in civil protection emergencies. The European Union also, through its recommendations, suggests that all workers who do not have a specific qualification must have professional certification based on their professional experience and specific training. This professional certification should have it as soon as possible. Why does it not put the training means of training available to provide serious and rigorous training to enable public service workers and workers to be properly trained in their logical and legal competition units? We need to modify Decree 37/2006, from the recruitment lists, by deleting the script so that workers and three-month workers can choose to fill vacancies and not fill vacancies. With regard to the possibility offered by the Administration, following the amendment of Decree 37/2006, to be able to make replacements for workers with less than half a day, i.e. the temporary lay-outs, which only work three months a year, it would have to point out that the options are very pilgrimageal and very complex, since access to a square of nine or twelve months necessarily passes by giving up the three-month final square, and then waiting for the place to be called temporarily the above-mentioned square. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u106	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Still agreeing with the spirit of the motion, since the BNG we would not deal with it together, because it is a complex issue that needs much more time to debate, and also because it is likely to be divided into subjects with sufficient silence and complexity as to be treated separately. That's why, because of time, I'm just going to brush myself up in the face of such a broad spectrum theme. Deseasonalization of the fires. If climate change is a fact, if it is more and more frequent that we have long periods of drought when it doesn't correspond to the climate patterns that this country used to us, wouldn't it be good to consider expanding the protection service — that rare word, SPDIF — to the people who set themselves aside, giving them the training that the law marks for emergencies and to quit rags? Chaotic order of the mountains. I mean, there's no ordering. We are such a rich country that we can devote lands and soils of the first, even tillage soils with centuries of mine and care, to the voracious predator. That's when in the world there are already countries that put money in the purchase of large land extensions for future cultivation, providing for the food wealth that is expected in the future. We here, following the theories that mark Ence. So we're talking about the greed of forest with eucalyptus-type pyrophytes and others in the way that marks the forest policy of this government and this party throughout its history of government, which is long, too long and relevant. In this sense, we also denounce here once again the continued attempt to privatize the management of the neighboring mountains in common, when not the municipalization of them. It's the result of a harassment of years ago, to see if the guard goes down and devotes itself to the massive exploitation of eucalyptuses, according to the guidelines of the already minted Ence, of adjuncts or adlaters. New generation lights and absence of performance and training protocols. It's not the same acting in front of a fire, let's say, normal, with an expansion speed of 10 meters/minute — usual in the 1990s — that of a fire with a speed of 28 meters/minute, as in Verín this summer. And I no longer say the 55 meters/minute, as in Leiria, which translates into three miles/hour. Won't it be hours, after so much trapping and so much hidden business, to sit down the agents involved — technical and sensible people, who are there — and talk about how to deal with these new and more frequent and dangerous modalities? The atomization of the fire device. All the troops shut down from different chiringuitos without essential homogenization in training, material, wages and working conditions. We need to have a single public service, stable, trained, trained and trained, not only in extinction, but in emergencies, practicing prevention throughout the year. It is therefore necessary to return to a single and public device of extinction and prevention, mainly in human media. We're facing a serious, very serious problem. Given the incendiary chaos that occurs year after year in neighbouring Portugal, his Government announced a moratorium of the eucalyptus at the beginning of the year, as well as the intention to order the forest chaos that suffered and suffered. The answer was not made to wait. The mafias — allow me the license — that operate in the fires are constantly damaging in a short time: Leiria, 95 simultaneous fires on the same day, 64 dead; fear, panic, mice, convective fire never seen in these proportions. It's called "rehen" or "refen" to this, others are called chance: Chile, Argentina, Galicia 2006. And you have to say it loudly because this is true: there's a mob of fires behind all this. No one dares say it and there's no evidence, but it's true. And this confirms all those who are put in one way or another in the fire. The problem is that in Verín this summer something like Leiria could happen, he didn't miss! It was the courage of a palist. It was the bravery of a palist! [[Applause]] Yes, sir, yes. [[Applause]] We here, in Galicia, have masses of arboreal and wood-burning fuel — or both — that are ready to make any day that the Bible hell materialises here as well. Does anyone understand that a director of Fires faces a fire counting a mosaic of brigades? And I say Eprif municipal, GES, private, Seaga, UME; each with its level or level of training and material. And even more, counting on an air media coordinator that is not public and is part of the company that provides these media. This has a name: chaos and chiringuitos. Chaos that are waiting for an unlucky crack, and then everything will be excuses and blames from roof to roof. Since BNG we insist that the thing is very serious. You have to sit down and talk a lot and clean about the means, causes and solutions, in the short and long term. We know they don't have will, but since the BNG we'll keep insisting like the one who beats in cold iron, because this country is a powder.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u108	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u109	I believe — and it is true — that there are arsonists, arsonists, black hands that set fire, some well-known brigades and packed up in their day by some mayor. But more responsibility has the administration that allows there to be fuel that facilitates the fire and, above all,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u110	Thank you, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u111	...that prevents its speedy and efficient neutralization, or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u112	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u113	Good afternoon, Members, Members, President. Fortunately, the August waters cleared the threat of a fiery bag after a great dry season that had over our heads the uncertainty of the uncontrolled proliferation of fires, and still today it is not entirely eliminated to the fiery content of this last weekend's weekend of Viana or Panton. The reality is that a year ago or later we can encounter a serious problem of fires, so that any common sense initiative that makes proposals to improve the ability to respond to the threat of fire seems appropriate to us. This motion presented today at the plenary is clearly geared towards improving the system of extinction, so we are going to support it, although it is an initiative, from our point of view, which is likely to be improved. We're told, we're told, to end the atomization of the device, right. That's supposed to improve coordination, which is always positive. If the capacity for extinction is improved, it is necessary. Of increasing surveillance and deterrence, never remains. To face new types of fire, important. Precise protocols, stable restraints, bulldozers seem appropriate. Of specific training, from 3 to 9 months to recruitment for trained staff, we find it essential. These are concrete measures that good insurance must contribute to or contribute to fires to a greater or lesser extent. It should be recalled that a number of these proposals have already come to the plenary and the Commission in various initiatives from various groups. For example, the workers, from 3 months to 9 months, because they're trained staff, and wasting training, seem like a dangerous exercise. Or even the last of the previous session, that of the control of the incendiaries, which was refused, even though it was then provided by the media — to quote some of them —. But still in agreement with the battery of measures that are presented to us today with some technical nuance, we could add to it so many others who are not on the initiative, such as agitating replacements and covering the vacancy squares in the brigades. In the case of substitutions, they are late, ill and dragged; brigades and motorcycles may remain together, seeking, at best, greater effectiveness; greater speed in the exit of the air brigades, which seems obvious to us; conversion of municipal brigades for staff with higher training, which is a theme in which to sink and not leave it to the bird; more incentives for the cleaning of the brush, which is common sense; involvement of the board in cleaning the perimeters of places and villages, which is going to be needed — as has been said here in this case—; greater flexibility in the resolution of the cleanup of the neighboring mountains, because there is no time to communicate the work, as this year has passed, that in June, as soon as it is forbidden to begin to unfold from a certain hour, authorisations arrive. This is not operational, this is not a good management indicator. And how these we could quote a long et cetera. Although all these measures are part of a package that has a positive impact, we must not forget that fire is a link to the forest plan. Therefore, we want to make a call for attention to the need to bring forward the new Forest Plan as a key part of the fight against fire; they cannot be dissociated; they are closely linked; a forest plan that we have come to demand that it be made available to all socio-economic agents involved to put in place solutions that order the species and uses of the forest floor as a master tool from which policies against the fire are designed in a time of strong demographic, social, economic and environmental changes under the picture of climate change. It is essential to deepen prevention policies, such as cleaning up inhabited mountains and perimeters. And there's a need for more involvement of the board, it's already said here more times. You can't look elsewhere and take all this responsibility to the municipalities. It is necessary to combine the monoculture of the pyrophytic species and intermix them bands of leafy and grassland or meadows, to define the species and spaces where they are located, in addition to how potential and accompany them with the second and third transformation industry. For us these are part of the axes that have the priority of the fight against fire. Today, in this particular case, we will support this battery of partial measures that go in the right direction, even if they do not sink in the fundamentals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u114	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balseiros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Another initiative put forward earlier in this House was Mr Quiroga. This is Mr Rivas Cruz. I tell you the same thing as I said to them on that occasion: be careful, because as you always agree on everything, regardless of the initiative they bring here -- the case is to establish that health cord against the People's Party -- be careful because there is no worse deal than that of wood itself. [[Applause]] We are concerned in the People's Group about the issue of fires, although, listening to the opposition groups' proposals, we can be even more calm. You guys have that magic formula to fix everything, it's a shame they don't use it when they rule or where they're ruling! [[Murmurs.]] Actually, ladies and gentlemen, your only goal is to confuse, create alarm, destabilize and seek the wear of the PP government. But since reality is soft and what is measurable is not opinable, we, our group, are going to make use of official data, rigor, truth; ultimately, objective arguments, which are public and contradictory, and above all measurable. But allow me to say that before we contrast the data and because, unlike you, our goal is to work for the general interest and for the common good, in the matter of fires, even though the data in recent years are still favourable and validate, therefore, the policies of the Union, we are not going to boast, rest or despise anyone, nor you. No, ladies and gentlemen, as far as prevention and fire fighting is concerned, we're not going to spit against the air, no, neither assume nor die of success, even though the results and data achieved this year and in the last year globally allow us to be moderately optimistic. And speaking of data, you say there are many more dangerous and more complex fires. The reality of the data is diametrically opposite. At the beginning of the 1990s, as you said, the number of fires was about 15,000. From there any period of later years that we've caught clearly shows a determined downward trend. Thus, from 1995 until 2005, the number of fires still exceeded 10,000, but continued with a clear downward trend. Then, with some peak or tooth of the greenhouse, the descent was drastic, being in recent years in figures from between 1,232 in the year 2014 or 2,822 in the year 2015. But it is true — you must admit — that this year 2017 there was a fire more than in 2016 — the typical greenhouse tooth. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we must admit it, we must tell the truth, when it's good and when it's bad. Yes, this year there were nearly 500 fires more than the year 2016; but with the same rigor, with the same veracity, it must be clarified that the affected surface was nearly 9,500 hectares less; that is, 46% less heated than the previous year, which demonstrates the high effectiveness of the extinction equipment. They also criticize the joint operation. Well, the data I just reported to them speaks for themselves. These data clearly indicate that the operation coordinated by the Galician Union is highly effective. Did you know that out of all the fires that produce 80% of them are in simple cones -- that is, they don't exceed 1 hectare of burnt surface? I suppose you'll understand that this is due to the extraordinary coordination, the speed of the means of extinction and the immediate performance. Ladies and gentlemen, did you know that in the only big fire this summer, the one in Verín, the extinguisher was acting eight minutes after alerting? It should be added here that, even though the arsonists try to break the firefighting device through the proliferation of multifocuses, acting at night hours so that the air media cannot act, and hinder landowners, the operation continues to respond very effectively, with a reaction time of between sixteen and twenty minutes. Now you say there's a deseasonation of the fires and there's a fourth, fifth, and I don't know how many generations. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, there is no deseasonation of fires, which is a reinforcement of fire activity when climate conditions are favorable to the spread of fires. Those of us from rural like you, Mr. Cruz, we know that already boys or boys in winter burn the mountains. Or don't you remember San Miguel's summer in late September or San Martín's summer in mid-November? And what happened when I was freezing at night and sundry from the Northeast by day? Do you remember the refran? In January or February, or cools the chicken or burns the straw. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, those who want to attack the mountain, against the environment, against forest wealth and landscaping, or simply for revenge or selfishness, do so on any occasion that is present to them, regardless of the month or station. By the way, as far as the fires of the fourth or fifth generation, look, what there are are fires for neglect, fires for neglect, fires for natural causes, fires for undetermined causes, and, above all, fires for intent. More than 80% of Galician forest fires are intentional. It's true, how true the concentration of fires is. Ladies and gentlemen, sadly 40 municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u116	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u117	...among half the hectares burned in Galicia, and 8 Greek parishes accumulate more than 600 forest fires in Galicia. I think they're clearly significant data, but seeing those exposed here by you, opposition lords, I really don't know what fires they were talking about. Perhaps they were talking about what has been produced in Andalusia or in the Levante or more recently in Canary Islands. Maybe they were talking about the fires...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u119	...of the neighbouring country of Portugal or of California, the Angels or Australia. But despite the data, as I told you at first, we don't want to boast of anything or be overpowered or raise the guard, nor are we satisfied. Not as long as there's a fire going on, not as long as it's burning a hectare.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u120	Thank you, Mr. Balsaros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u121	Finally — and I am finished, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u122	Finish it, yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u123	...we want to make a call to the whole of Galician society to engage in the fight against forest fires, to raise awareness of society by preventing, warning, denouncing and collaborating.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u125	Call that we extend to you too. We wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u126	Thank you. Author group of the motion, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u127	Thank you, President. Within three days, 436 workers with three-month contracts will be on the street another year, significantly decreasing the troops for the prevention and extinction of forest fires. In this way, the Council dissipates a very important human capital that could be used in the necessary tasks of preventing and protecting forest masses, apart from extinction, according to the moment and diversification of its functions by its contrasting experience, training and effectiveness. Middle Rural maintains that the device is dimensioned to needs, when the land workers currently active are 1,500 workers, of which 1,177 are field personnel between brigadiers and motorcycle drivers, the rest, 315, surveillance personnel, and 80 people on airbases. As for the brigades, Mr. Balsairos, they are historically composed of seven forest firemen, but in practice, because of the vacancies that you don't cover from the Council, they don't cover the casualties, they don't cover the permits, they don't cover the bookkeeping system, it's common to meet with 2 or 3 firemen and firemen brigades, with the loss of effectiveness that would entail and the risk of occupational accidents for that brigade. All of this causes a lot of work to be concentrated and the staff to spend hours on their work days, focusing on the safety of both workers and workers themselves. This state of affairs manifests the questionable management of the fire service, falling into improvisation, which results in fires spreading more easily and increasing the time and expenditure of extinction. The Council's lack of forecast and planning may be deduced in carrying out appropriate policies for the prevention and extinction of forest fires, because it not only neglects the basic prevention tasks, but its clear attitude to primacy only does not execute it diligently or effectively. It is obvious that the moment of forest fires requires new prevention strategies. The fires of the fourth and fifth generation do exist, we don't say it from En Marea, from the universities, that endorse the studies of experts on the subject with empirical models that are used to develop a seasonal prediction system. The fires that tear down our country every year not only feed on oxygen and wood, but also corruption, Mr. Rivas said. It seems complicated to relate deaths, injuries and hectares burned with a series of informal meetings that are convened every year, since 2001, by several Spanish entrepreneurs at the El Cruce Hotel in Manzanares, Ciudad Real. In fact, it seems difficult to relate the deaths and the surface calcined by fires to something other than political ineptitude, the interests of local companies or small landowners, the uncontrolled planting of eucalyptus and the pyromans. This is the conclusion that there is a study of corruption investigations in the adjudication of public fire extinguishing contracts in Valencia, Andalusia, Balearic Islands, Extremadura, Castela-León, Castela-A Mancha,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u129	...Galiza, Canary or Aragon. In Portugal there are complaints of similar cases, even with the same protagonists as here in our country, interposed by individuals, workers of public and private fire fighting companies, but in all there is a common denominator, which all bear the Spanish brand and corruption of the People's Party. In 2001, a series of regular meetings began between administrators of several Spanish fire extinguishing companies. These companies form what the Judicial Police call group 6. And yes, there's an office of the Council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u131	...of our Conseilaria do Medio Rural, from which we will then have news. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u132	Thank you. We are now debating, in a cumulative way, the following motions. G.P. motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the Preliminary draft Law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the reform of the Law 8/2008, of the 10th July, of health of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u133	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u134	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u135	Thank you, President. Well, once again we've been discussing the amendment of the Galician Health Act 8/2008, and surely it won't be the last. And not only because of the question put forward — obviously today it was to come to debate this motion — but because it is outrageous that the Union — and not because we ask the opposition groups to do so — does not withdraw this preliminary draft and continues to insist on introducing it unilaterally despite the mobilizations that will take place this week. There's a mobilization on Friday at Salnès, there's another mobilization on Saturday at Monforte, and, of course, what you're not doing at the Galician Board is listening to those who ask for dialogue. We said that in the previous plenary session, the Government tried to "collate" in the middle of summer a profound reform, in our understanding, of the health system unilaterally, publishing the preliminary draft — as we have already moved — on the same day that it sat with the union power stations. Not before, how he moved here, but on the same day. There is therefore no dialogue, and it is their usual way of acting. They make their law, their proposal, they publish it, and then, if so, we'll see if there's any additions or if we accept any comment on the part of the opposition, we're not talking about the forces of the opposition, but about the social agents. Not before. A rule that opens the door to the private company, which is rather opaque, that eliminates the citizen's participation and that eliminates — which is loaded, said colloquially — the health areas, and even that violates the principles that have given in the flowering of the General Health Act. Monforte, The Boat, The Navy and the Salnés disappear, like this, from a pen; we run out of sanitary areas. First they removed or loaded the primary care agencies, then the administrations in these hospitals' areas, and now they're also removing the entire health areas. Obviously, according to the president, it agrees with the situation. After the administrations were removed, harmonization and loading — removing also — the sanitary areas. And why is it serious? What's the use of a health area that affects the citizenry that's in their homes? Health areas are territorial demarcations aimed at ensuring comprehensive health care. They are basic structures to coordinate primary care, specialized care, socio-health care; to make it easier for people in each area to have better, more accurate and faster access to all services, and to coordinate resources; to work better, so that they can respond in a correct way in time and form to the health needs of people living in that territory. But the PP eliminates four areas: Monforte, The Boat, The Salnés and The Navy. And, according to the General Health Act and the Galician Health Act, they should then be demarcated, taking into account the geographic, socio-economic, cultural and even the resources of channels and media that exist in these territories. That's why health areas, such as management and planning, are important when providing services related to the living conditions of people in each territory. So they load the ability to plan the health needs of these neighbors and neighbors, which are specific and different from those of the other health areas. Removing areas therefore means losing health services for citizenship. And primary care is deprived of an administrative structure that allows you to have a negotiation and balance with specialized care, and is relegated to a subsidiary role. I mean, this has already started by removing primary care agencies, and now they're doing it even more seriously in the case of primary care for areas that are now being deleted. He's been on the right, dismantling primary care since he was given. People must know that eliminating this health area means they're going to get worse primary attention. And even more, it's relegated, it's excluded, from the management organs, from the technical organs, with less and less personal, and what we're looking at now, the absence of staff replacement, which assumed precisely — we commented in the morning — in a forced deterioration. The people of Monforte, the Navy, the Salnés and the Barco must know that the primary care of their areas will work even worse than they're doing now. And we moved even worse because now the primary care staff — doctors and doctors and the rest of the staff — are in a situation, in some cases, the truth that is quite desperate, without the possibility of being replaced when they ask for a permit or when they are on their way down, and given the people that the Government decides not to send to the specialists. These teleconsultations, this euphemism that they have launched, are also implying that all responsibility should go to primary care and that people should not be allowed to attend presence consultations in many cases. And that's to take away services, at least by understanding this parliamentary group. Because, of course, what's going on? It turns out that as there were protests and as the opposition was moving that services would be reduced, the Health Counsellor offered to the mayors and mayors in the Fegamp that they would modify the preliminary draft so that it would appear that they would not withdraw services. Of course, no one will claim or put into a law that will withdraw the cardiology service, the radiology service or any other service. What happens is not that, what happens is that there are no health personnel to put in place, in appropriate conditions, those services, and therefore the ability to assist and the service people have in the areas. That's what happens in the county hospitals, first, since the administrations were abolished; now it's going to happen as well with the suppression of the areas. And what happens also in primary care: the reduction in resolution capacity and the proportion of care services when there are less and less effective. They don't need to write that they're going to delete a service, it's obvious that this is done in the practice with the lack of human and material resources. It's reality, and we see it in the comarcal hospitals themselves, in all those where the administrations were deleted. They all have, by setting an example, something that is common: lack of janitors and janitors, which is true that it comes from before, when hospitals were in some case foundations, before not even that they happened to the Galego Health Service. But this situation remains. As a matter of fact, Salné's janitors and janitors have been mobilized for quite a long time protesting their working conditions; in the boat there are three quarters of the same; in Monforte we discussed it the other day, 1 nurse/ nurse for 28 patients in the night shift, only 2 janitors or janitors to meet all the postural changes in the night shift throughout the hospital. Obviously, this is insufficient, there's not enough staff in the day-to-day hospital, there's not enough personnel in radiology or even to attend. It also happens in the Navy hospital, where in all those oncology consultations there are delays in both the tests and the service itself. It also happened — and we discussed it the other day — in Monforte, which there are not enough digestions either. So of course the services will be affected, and it is not necessary to appear in writing. The Government's gentlemen and the Government's ladies, of course, are not very concerned about participation - we also discussed it the other day. What does it affect? There is, of course, a process of decentralization of the services themselves and of elimination, or — let us say — of limiting Community participation; we decentralise the management and planning of community participation. This participation in the Galician Health Council is cut here. We've discussed it in the previous plenary. No one is listening to professionals, but it seems that no one wants to listen to citizenship either in what to say or in the possibility of participating in the design of health policies. And there is another important aspect — which we have already discussed the other day — which, however, has not been touched; the Counsellor commented, but we have not echoed in that circumstance: the modification of what is considered to be a health authority. According to the rule proposed by the People's Party, all its directors, its managers, will have sanctioning capacity; not only will they be able to prepare a file, a report, but the health authority will have that set of rights, also the sanctioning capacity. And I'm asking why they're going to use it. And, in addition, this amendment serves — as we have already moved to the full past — to give that point to the investigation as well. We've already commented. Removes the Welsh Research Plan and introduces an opaque operation model that remains, like most of the norm, at the expense of a later regulation. This is the pre-project spirit: opacity of regulation and elimination of health rights. Obviously — and I am finished now — what we are asking for is, first of all, to withdraw this bill, because, if you want to amend Law 8/2008, you have to do it through dialogue rather than taxation. We obviously call for the abolition of primary care agencies and also for comarcal hospitals to be reversed and, of course, for workers' rights to be returned so that they can start working in conditions of dignity. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. At first, our position is meridianly clear. We want the Health Law Reform Bill to be removed, 8/2008. We want it — we put it here the other day — because it is absolutely unfair, absolutely dismantling, and it is also inappropriate for the health system we have. Why? For several questions we are going to put forward, but basically because citizens perceive that the tendency of this government is to take care of health services, and — in fact — it is difficult not to give them reason. You have a problem with the health system. They're not professionals, they're not patients, the problem is service managers. There's a determined intention to withdraw services from the health system. There are clear reasons for requesting withdrawal, there are grounds for form and reasons for substance. Motives in form. When you have quiet consciences about the proposals you're going to make, you don't do them on August 2, leaving fifteen days. It must be the only government in the world who believes that in Galicia August 2-17 is the best way to promote citizen participation. On 2 August, no proposal is made for this silence, Galicia's most important health law is not reformed on 2 August. In spite of this, there have been more than a thousand five hundred allegations — historical, because there have never been so many —. The grace that the Government of Greece had was to extend until August 31st the period. Things are done hidden and, therefore, when they are hidden, it gives the feeling that someone wants to hide something. This is a project that has never been announced. It's a project that the president didn't talk about when he gave the investment speech. He never spoke of the counselor here when he made various appearances or spoke of the needs of the system from his point of view. It was never announced in the press, it was never consulted by any collective, it was never exposed to its need, never, and it arrived on August 2nd and it appeared published. Yes, they were willing, by work and grace, to announce it around three or four minutes earlier at a trade union negotiating table; that was their concession. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, dialogue is not an emergency solution, it's an attitude. Now we see the adviser and many representatives of the People's Party visiting the most affected areas, the most worried areas, trying to calm down, now, at the end of September, more than a month and a half later, now, when there are already mobilizations, when there are protests. But at the time that this preliminary draft was published no one took the phone, no one gave any explanation. Now, when a certain pressure comes up, then it's when we go to the places, make a cheap publicity of what the project means. Dialogue is not a later solution, it is an attitude. But, of course, in the last interpellation we made here at the previous plenary session the councillor told us that the political groups had the period of allegations to do so; it must be that in Parliament this morning we knew that the problem is to come to politics here. But we knew that the allegations had to be made from the Board's Transparency Portal. You have too much atrophy in the sense of dialogue, you have to be a little aware of what your sense of dialogue is, not a way, not to make a posteriori consultation. Consulting the a posteriori groups, since a decision is made, is marketing; querying them first is dialogue; a small differentiation. But, as we've already passed on to them at that time, he highlighted an exercise of deep political cowardice. In addition, to come here, as we have brought, to receive ridiculous attitudes, unfortunate comments, to hear that we are repeated slogans, to whom we confront data repeat slogans, to whom we confront data repeat slogans, and thus an absurd loop of debate; I still remind them that they did not want to have, that they witnessed a debate on this reform of this law in this Parliament. In addition to these reasons, there are fundamental reasons clearly. The legislative evolution of the health system is more or less clear. There are two fundamental laws on the health system around which all legislation is being pushed: firstly, the General Health Act, in the year 86, and in Galicia Law 8/2008; there was a previous law, a little small in addition, in 2003, even recognized by the counsellor himself, which was only a law of management. The two laws, 86 in Spain and 2008 in Galicia, by the way, promoted by socialist governments and, by the way, the two laws voted against by the People's Party. They don't come to defend what I'm not. You voted against the two most important laws governing the health system. We now have the sixth amendment from 2008, the sixth. When you try to change a law six times, it's actually a new law. So you want to conform the health system to the taste of your model, legitimate on the other hand, but you don't hide it, it's a different health model. So what you bring here is basically the stitch to a health model, a model that is defined basically, although we could extend ourselves, into two fundamental keys. First, a participation by decree, now you're going to talk about health by decree. Eighteen articles that are intended to be modified, ten out of eighteen contain the idea that they will be developed by Council decree; broad participation, no doubt. Health maps. You now assume that, with this legal preliminary draft, with this legal regulation, you are defending yourself to adjudications and the functioning of hospitals. I remind you — as I said in the interpellation; no one has gathered any appreciation on the part of the counsellor, nor have I ever seen anything after — that you defended here in May this year about Montecelo's ILP — literally — "The legal framework is not the place to define the location of infrastructures and much less of the health services." So, if they argued this way in May, they don't come to my defense now that this regulatory initiative is designed to shield the services. Of so much armory will be like the safe, that no one will be able to access them. So don't argue now what you couldn't argue before. Be somewhat coherent in that sense. You bring a reform that will make you lose services. Speaking of services, because it is always discussed here, I often hear Members come up and say: the health system is better, without providing any data. For providing some of the specially affected health areas: Valdeorras had 2 rehabilitators, now has no template, they come from Ourense, usually different every week; if you are aware of what it is to have a different rehabilitator every day that one goes to rehabilitation, they are aware of the difficulty. There were two pediatricians, there were one. There was 1 cardiologist in a template, no longer; he came from Ourense, several times. There was one urologist, no longer; it goes from Ourense, several times. 4 traumatologists now only go 2, several times; when you're tired of the Traumatology Service, you're operating on Ourense. What's the problem with this? In Valdeorras, for example, in rehabilitation, consultation requested on 16 August, first consultation for rehabilitation, quote given on 26 November next year; 16 August, 26 November next year. It seems to you that this is all right. Burela, August 24, the first cardiology visit, cites November 8, next year; August 24, November 8, next year, this was late, next year. Burela, quote requested, September 1, 2017 for dermatology, May 3, 2018 —it is not 2019, quiet. This is your system, this is what happens in your system. Salnés Hospital, there was Neurology, now there is only one neurologist who visits from Pontevedra three days a week, by the way, only for the neighbors of Vilagarcia. There used to be a cardiologist, now there is, visiting from Pontevedra, two days a week, only for those of Vilagarcia and Vilanova; those of Cambados, those of Ribadumia, those of Cathora already go directly to Pontevedra, lost that service. Before there was lightning service, now we have to go to Pontevedra. Before there was a clinical analysis service, you have to go to Pontevedra. That's your health system. Look, there's an older lady who asked me these days to tell her case, and you know that I'm not so proclicit in counting cases, but this one seems fantastic, for the unfortunate. He was 73 years old, broke his femur, went to the Emergency Service at Salnejo Hospital, and he was told that they were going to come in because they had to operate it soon, but they were going to enter the Domínguez Hospital, arranged, private, in Pontevedra. The explanation, after asking her several times, didn't give it to him until the next day, and told him a doctor, but not officially but because it was the only explanation they gave him, because he still didn't get written explanation. It's that the anesthetists were all on vacation and they didn't substitute themselves, and in addition, at Salnes there was no room to enter it after the operation, so I had to go already to Domínguez, from Pontevedra, where it took a week, by the way, in operation. That's right, during that time she was out, the third floor of the Salnés Hospital, which had no room for her, if she opened up, to film a series of televisions. You opened the Salnés Hospital plant, the third floor, to film a series of televisions. This goes beyond that proposal to change the name of the Coastal Hospital. [[Applause]] They opened it to film a series of televisions. Maybe they can combine and make the TV ad by changing his posters and they already have everything. You basically legislate in hiding, and when you have a bad conscience in hiding. These cases are constant, continuous, and that's the reality of our system, and you want to continue that path, sink it and get further and further. For what? To concentrate services, and those who have difficulty accessing them, what we're going to do to them, poor people. Well, that's not our model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u139	We propose the reverse service: expanding services, arriving, not making citizenship first and second, in access to services. We believe that concentration of services is not only ineffective, but inefficient. And besides -- and I remember your ex-counsel -- it shows that you are political with a little soul and a little heart.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u140	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u141	In the face of this amendment to the Galician Health Act of 2008, by the back door, with nocturnalness, alleviation, and lies included, the People's Party intends to impose a fraudulent report. You're trying to impose a lying account, you're trying to impose the account that this is a harmless change and that you have no justification for the opposition to the same thing that we're doing. There is even a mayor of the People's Party who calls for a rebuttal against that ultra-left opposition that is altering the citizen's coexistence by opposing this law; yes, mayors of the exalted People's Party, that's what there is! But the reality and also the self-report is that we are opposing ourselves without really knowing the modification and without knowing the content. On the other hand, recurrent argument, a recurring account. Today morning the councillor came here and again accused us of the same, again saying that it turns out we had not read the magnificent plan he was presenting to us. And the fact is, yes, that the BNG has read that amendment to the Health Act, and as we read it, it clearly states that services and areas will be given according to existing resources, taking into account existing, literal and literal health resources. That means, where I put "taking care of health needs," now it says "taking care of resources." It's an important change, it's not harmless, it's not a harmless change; it's a change that's on the line of flotation exactly from Galicia's public health; what it means is to want to give you a range of laws to be able not to provide services, not to do infrastructures, not to make cuts, not to rest personal, depending on that you can simply say that there are no resources, there are no unjustified resources, of course, because there could be set priorities for the People's Party, because it could say that there are no resources for anything, but no, there are no resources for what we say; for health there are no resources, and there can still be resources for banks and other issues. We read the law, and then in the law, where he established citizen participation, he eliminated it — I can tell you the articles, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — eliminate that citizen participation. They take her skills out, leave her in mere advice, that is, where they can go to tell her but no ability to dilute reports or to question the health policy of the Galician Union. I mean, if we read this change that you want to make through the back door. Just as those who haven't read it were you, who are going through the country moving an argumentary that almost no one believes them, gentlemen and ladies of the People's Party. BNG is very clear what the People's Party wants with this amendment. I've already said it in the previous plenary: just as the Health Benefits Act gave legal status to private derivation and to allocate resources to private health, with this law what they want is also to give law rank to cuts. And as we read, that's why we're opposed to it; that's why we're supporting the mobilizations that are making professionals, that are making neighbors, and the positions of municipalities and deputies contrary to this change; that's why we're going to be on Friday at Salnes, and that's why we're going to be on Saturday at the boat, and that's why we're going to be on day 5 at Burela and day 8 at Monforte, accompanying the neighbors and neighbours, who know what's at stake, because, as much as you try to impose that report that nothing happens, yes, it happens; as much as they try to impose the report that the comarcaal health areas, the comarcaal hospitals have done nothing but to improve, they know that they're lying shamelessly. They were given here data for active and passive, we could give many others, but they know they're lying, they know they've only done worse. They know that these comarcal hospitals, far from having better services, have worse, less time and away from the health care of the population. That is why the BNG will continue to bring the debate here, to Parliament, this issue. Today we are going to support the two motions presented. We tabled an amendment to extend the scope of questions which are set out in the two motions put forward, but which we will support in the same way. And in addition to, of course, demanding that this draft law be withdrawn, what we ask is that the established health areas be maintained. Instead of dismantling them, instead of eliminating four and not consolidating three hospitals that are not yet in areas, what we say is that the structure of the comarcal areas is completed instead of suppressing them and leaving them in seven, that there are fourteen health areas in Galicia, to bring health closer to the neighbours and neighbours, to develop nearby health services, with functions of identification of needs in those areas, planning care management, that it is close and do a public health and socio-health work health, that it is close and that it detects in its area the needs, that the comarcal hospitals are valued, that they decentralize decision-making and that they have the ability to resolve them; to provide the malls of personnel, material and technology needed for adequate attention to people in their areas of action, and the recovery of the management of comarcal hospitals. Instead of going in the direction of the People's Party to concentrate and move away, in the BNG we propose is going in the opposite direction, in the direction of being close and that there is the ability to analyze and resolve in the next area. What else do we demand? Then put in place a plan to improve primary care. It's just that coming here, as if it came in the morning, saying that we're going to do I don't know how many things I don't know without changing the roadmap, without putting in place a plan for improving primary care, with resources, with staff, about ending up with budget cuts, because it's painting how you want, it's wet paper. That's why we demand a plan to improve primary care, equipped with economic, technical, accurate human resources, gateway.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u143	Although in the plan they presented to us in the morning, they already put the entry door to suicide was 061, they've already made a paradigm change that you don't know, at some point — I suppose it would be a mistake — they'll have to clarify it. Returning the resolutive capacity to primary care and then the maintenance of citizen participation to both Galician health councils and health councils in each of the areas that were and the three that had not covered the Health Council in Law 8/2008. We make an amendment where we demand that it go right in the opposite direction proposed by the People's Party. And we will bring this debate here as often as necessary, insisting on this issue, because, as much as they try to impose this fraudulent story, the citizenship of this country, the Greeks and the Greeks are not stupid and are taking note. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u145	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The first thing I have to ask is to apologize for boring your lordships, because we are virtually reproducing the debate of fifteen days ago in this same Chamber. Today we are debating two motions from the En Marea Group and the Socialist Party calling for the withdrawal of the draft preliminary draft of the law, and, similarly, the En Marea Group, as Mrs Solla explained, adds a theme of collective bargaining which was discussed in the last Commission 5th and also the recovery of primary care agencies, and Mr. Torrado, of the Galician Socialists, calls for the formation of a working group that assesses the provision of services in the county hospitals, working groups in which political parties, trade unions, joints of staff and even professionals are represented, but of those who exclude patients, curiously. It seems that for opposition groups -- as I said in the morning -- patients are neither important nor significant, they only admit as popular representation political-union organizations, which are now called platforms; as they are much bigger, they were already associations, federation of associations, coordinators, movements, white tides... Curious. Last week it appeared in a newspaper in the province of Pontevedra that a platform changed its name, now called The Voice of Health of Cangas. I mean, I think we have to change too often, and for something it will be. I'd like to know the real number of patients, of street people, of ordinary people who are part of all this conglomerate, who happen to protest only when the People's Party rules, when the Government of the People's Party appears protest, even though now, with the emergence of the new policy, if they mean in some autonomous community against some socialist government, casually where they don't co-govern with it too; that is, things seem to be clear. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Torrado, I ask you to think of the sick and less of making a policy of wear-out of the People's Party Government, of Mr. Feijóo's Government. They tried the past legislation, and the citizens, those people who go to the health centers, who go to the hospitals, gave them their backs in the polls. Of course, we believe, Mrs. Prado, it seems that those who don't believe are you, there's no more to look at the number of seats. [[Murmurs.]] I was saying in the debate of the non-legislative motion of the full past that surprised the virulence with which this draft draft was hosted. It was submitted to allegations for one month; indeed, more than one thousand and five hundred were presented, which means what period to make them there was; one thousand and three hundred were made by local unions and entities, and a little over thirty demanded the modification of the articulate, little more than thirty. Curiously, Mr. Torrado speaks of the month of August, and it turns out that the deadline for presenting precadents in the Socialist Party's primarys was in August; it seems that the Socialist Party's primarys were also discreetly hidden. [[Murmurs..]] We've already said the other day, in front of other news, before summer serpents, before that... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u146	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u147	...you can't talk about waiting, the draft has come out. And they played the hornet, they played the hornet to get out, all the people who come out, rejecting a legislative amendment that is perfectly legal and legitimate and made according to the current regulations, the difference in events that are living in Spain on these dates and that some groups of this House support significantly. The former mayors, for example, Mrs. Prado, including that of my people, support people who are really "exalted" people. He didn't like the draft project published on the transparency website in August, but it turned out to be published and claimed. In 2008, the groups that ruled at that time — the Socialist Party and the BNG —, respecting the legality, in a completely legitimate way, amended the Law of 2003 which had approved the Government of the People's Party, with 52% of popular support. The People's Party, although it has not voted on that law, in subsequent governments it has not been repealed, but it has amended it, which is often done by the left-wing groups with any law that is approved by the People's Party, both in Galicia and outside Galicia, in the national Parliament. But, of course, the left has a conviction of moral superiority, and that conviction doesn't allow the Government of the People's Party, the Government of Galicia, to publish a draft draft preliminary draft amendment, after almost ten years of law supervision. But we, the majority group in this House, support that change. We hope that the Government will accept the allegations it considers that the text can be improved and that it will forward to this Parliament the final preliminary draft, so that it can be discussed in committee and in plenary, so that among all of us we can adapt this law to the social reality, to the geographic, socio-economic, labor, epidemiological and accessibility factors, and also to the basic and sectoral state standards that have been adopted. I will not speak again of the 8th debate, although in that debate we spoke of examples, such as those which have now put Mr. Torrado, much more critical. That law was a lighthouse, it was beautiful, and the health was as good as it was. I can remember the "order and command" faxes that came to my health center: either do what the primary care manager says or I'm putting a file on you; that's what I remember working on. But, of course, it seems that the social response doesn't have the backing that was expected, maybe they have to set up the mouthpiece and the bus to fill some demonstration, I don't know, you'll have to check the photos, see if this is true that the photos are what they are. [[Applause]] Of course you don't have credibility in the neighborhoods and neighbours of those localities, and you know it, you know it. They talk about privatization, they talk about ACIS, when there was a Galego Institute of Health Research, which no case the law defined as public. By the way, Mr Torrado would like to know the opinion of the former Minister and current Member of Parliament Mr José Blanco, who urged the European Union to fine the Autonomous Community of Galicia — i.e. the Greeks and the Greeks — by an alleged—textually— "infrause due to the cuts in health personnel and hospital resources initiated by the Government of Feijóo". It's a great contribution from Mr. Blanco to the improvement of Greek public health. I don't know who the former minister's adviser was — perhaps you, Mr. Torrado — but I think the statements are frankly unfortunate and I doubt that no German or Welsh subscribed them. In short, ladies and gentlemen, from the majority group we support the amendment of the law. We can — and we are sure that it will — incorporate the allegations presented this month. We think that if you want to steal the parliamentary debate, there have been meetings with political authorities and with schools and associations, the last with the Fegamp. We believe that the law is beneficial for citizens — we often forget citizens — who put the patient in the center of the system, in front of other interests of another type, blinds the existence of comarcal hospitals and gives legal coverage to professional displacements. He always forgets Verín, Cee and Ribeira. I've been to Cee yesterday, today there's a news release where even the staff board itself isn't absolutely worried. It improves the quality of work and continuing training for the professionals of the comarcas hospitals and favors and facilitates the incorporation of optionals into these hospitals; we all know the difficulties in covering these squares. And of the rest of the benefits that you see, you don't speak either. The recognition — named President — by law of the Advisory Council for Patients and its participation in the Health Council, the creation of the interdepartmental commission between Health and Education, professional itineraries, the recognition of the health authority and public health inspectors. For all this, I think it is clear that we are not going to support his initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u148	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, and on the amendment, we're going to accept it, although it's really the content that has been discussed last week in the non-law proposal; and if the groups have a need, we'd also accept the point vote in any case. With regard to the PSdEG initiative, of course, we are going to support it, it goes in the same direction — it would fail more!, it is on the same subject. Do you have any understanding problems? [[Murmurs.]] The initiatives are about the same fear, and also — as you see — even accumulated, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, at last... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Centeno, about your intervention. I regret that I have to make this spectacle and an attack on political organizations and parliamentary groups to justify the unjustifiable law. And you were talking about political-union organizations. It seems that, not now, this is historic, it disturbs the participation and independence of organizations and they do not like it when citizenship is organized to fight precisely laws like this which are going against their rights. And that organised citizenship has the right to do so in parties, in unions, in associations and in collectives. We see that democracy is a bit of a bother to you from time to time, but unfortunately for you, citizenship has the right to organize itself; and, of course, we also have the right to replicate here. I'm not from the PSdEG, but I find it rather regrettable that you have to use the internal affairs of the parties to justify when you don't make a good time like this, in which they impose a rule on the unions and the parties. [[Applause]] You said you were already a little tired and your Members were tired of listening to the debate of this law. They have nothing left, by the way! But what's rather tired is that you use, day and day, internal affairs too. If you have any questions or doubts, they move you outside, I don't think anyone has a problem talking to you. Now, we're talking about changing the most relevant health rule in this autonomous community. And you have to talk about absolutely everything but the norm. That's your democracy, and that's what they care about, the relevant thing for you to change that calibre of the law. I would ask for less populism, less manipulation, more serious debate and more data. Because it's something we've already moved on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u150	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u151	...in the previous plenary which is very relevant with regard to the data: that the Board of Auditors says that none of the EOXI, with the exception of Pontevedra-O Salnes, has any audit report on their accounts. There are no management reports either, there is no data; and what is worse — and it was also transferred by the Board of Auditors — since you deleted the administrations of the comarcas hospitals increased the spending on high charges; therefore, what the PP was defending to suppress these agencies was a lie. And now again comes a rule in which they use pilgrim arguments to justify precisely a health cut that will come, of course it will come. What they are being asked to do here is to recapitate and appeal to participatory democracy. If the PP says it's so open to dialogue and now suddenly remember that there are municipalities, that there are Fegamps, that there are unions, that there are collectives and there are associations, they withdraw the norm; and if they want to modify the Health Law, they do it in a participatory way. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u152	Thank you. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. From our group we will undoubtedly also support En Marea's motion. Indeed, it is a proposal that is debated together, by the President's decision; I say it in case there was some strange idea about it. And we're not going to accept the BNG amendment, although we agree, we voted for it in the previous plenary. It's a little bit of a question: since we don't vote for it, we don't amend it. But we agree and, besides, if In Marea is going to include it, we're going to vote for it; that is, it's a formal matter. It was called here that we don't think about in patients. I'd like to know how many patient associations met before the project was published. What I did like was that the People's Party is not considered public health patients; thank you for acknowledging it. I'm glad, really. [[Applause]] Anyway, I made several appointments here: from September to May, from August to November next year, another from August to next year. They're people too, people who had to operate elsewhere because there were no doctors to operate in their hospital. They're people, they're patients too. Maybe you'll decide who's patient and who's not. In any case, Mr. Aurelio Núñez — you know I have a lot of respect for him — I didn't expect him to make this placard of having to come here and talk about something else that wasn't about the law. But I'm going to tell you frankly: I'd rather choose between comrades and choose in which grouping I see them to have to choose whether my companions visit them in Alcalá-Meco or in Soto del Real. The truth is... me, me. [[Applause]] There may be other opinions. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't really expect it. I didn't expect it. [[Murmurs.]] I expected it from other people in your party, with other voices I could expect it; with you, no. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u154	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u155	Not with you. By the way — as predictable — Mr. Blanco did not urge anything, it was a question — I say: it is so predictable because I have it here. And what basically — literally — is: "if there is any mechanism to ensure that investments made can continue to work." To be sure, because they are in danger — it may be — because of their action. And Mr. Blanco's question... if you take notes from the press, I raise the question from the European Parliament... it's a question of discrepancy, you draw out a newspaper and I ask the European Parliament's question — if you want, I leave it there. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Since I'm wondering about Mr. Blanco's news, I want to ask him, because it's true: you said it's the same debate as last time. No, it's not the same, this time you're talking and not the counselor. And already talking about words, there's a mayor who has you in my neighborhood, who's PP's spokesman in my neighborhood, who talks about the escape of patients because of the staff -- that's who's called "dumbs." Yesterday at the plenary we were called "Indians": these "Indians" who are coming to protest at the plenary. "Indios," "tontos"; I expected you to explain these words to me, because the next day you met with him. And if we talk about words, I wanted you to tell me if you agree with your mayor of Vilanova, who says we're all "Indians" and that Salnes' staff, if there's any problem, go to Montecelo. I wanted to know your opinion, it wasn't the same debate, you could explain it. But, in any case, I bring people's dates, you say we don't talk about patients, ask me to explain something in the European Parliament and let me know with a press release and with my question in Parliament. You tell me what it is and you haven't told me about the law. Bad conscience...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u157	...you must have about the law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u158	Thank you. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u159	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting the motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and Mrs Paula Quinteiro Araújo. No amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Ms. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the current model for the prevention and extinction of forest fires The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u160	We now vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the Preliminary draft Law amending Law 8/2008 of 10 July 2008 on health in Galicia The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u161	And we voted for the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the reform of the Law amending Act 8/2008, of 10 July, of health of Galicia The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u162	The vote on the motions was finished. Open the doors, please. And we're still on the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. from In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and D. Luís Villares Naveira, on the demand to the Galician Union in relation to the increase in the number of assessment and guidance teams (EVO) to achieve this year the reduction of waiting lists for the assessment of the degree of disability up to a maximum of three months
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u163	There's a self-amendment of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and an amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u164	Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u165	Good afternoon, everyone. We put forward a non-law proposal that talks about political priorities, that talks about dependency attention. I never participate in these debates and listen carefully to the debates and the advisers and spokesmen of the People's Party, and I am a little angry that there are never certain lines that have begun progressive governments here. The policy of dependency on people was initiated, both in the state and in the Government of the United States, by progressive governments, which put forward ambitious plans not only to meet with dignity all women and men who needed it and to help relatives and close relatives who have to stop certain very harsh circumstances but also to create, together with other measures, a new economic model based on job creation in these sectors, who create quality jobs and who are sustainable, and who are, in our view, the future of this country; and they are not a burden, as the People's Party seems to understand; dependency spending is not a burden. And all the Members and Members of the People's Party — as well as any — who have a normal life, know what it means for many people in this country — especially women — when there are people with alzeimers at home, people who can't move out of bed, etc., etc., what that means for the lives of many people, who perhaps spend years and years taking care of dependent people. We believe that it should be a priority which is also expressed in the budgets and decisions of each government, because that is political priorities. And we put forward a very specific proposal that deals with the evaluation and guidance teams, which are multidisciplinary teams responsible for qualifying the degree of disability of the people who apply for it. It contains doctors, psychologists, social workers, and the situation in general is the lack of means of these assessment and guidance teams, which leads to the delay in the assessment of the degree of disability, with particularly serious the situation in the province of Pontevedra, in which 18 months have been waiting. It is a situation that we consider structural and which, of course, has its origin or its cause in the lack of sufficient staff. In the face of this lack of staff, the current German Government is not willing to hire staff for these assessment and guidance teams, but rather to promote a solution in collaboration or agreed with Sergas for Sergas doctors or Sergas staff to do that degree of disability assessment work. It seems that, today — I say it seems because I personally do not know it, surely my companion does — the unions do not know the content of it, how it will work, and they have doubts that it can work properly, or that it is not used for example a method of telematics evaluation, computerized, etc. We simply believe that, in the face of this structural delay of months of people who are waiting for their degree of disability to be valued, action must be taken, and the measures we propose is that the number of evaluation and guidance teams be strengthened and increased so that this year the reduction of waiting lists for the assessment of disability to a maximum of three months. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u166	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u167	Thank you, President. The continued campaign of the People's Party to attack public services has no end. When we talk about attacks on public services, we talk about people, names and surnames, who are left at the stake. Whenever problems arise, problems of gravity, we find ourselves with statements from the council, the People's Party, of the type of shock plan, that they actually recognize a certain level of waiting lists, that the mechanisms are not all the axiles they should, but the reality is that problems are kept in time. We are speaking in this case of disability assessment teams, teams that are regulated by legal regulations, in particular by the Order of 25 November 2015, and in front of this legal regulation, before the inescapable waiting lists, in front of the waiting lists for which legislation establishes a period of months, it turns out that we are meeting for years, for years, for many cases of more than one year, but even for years in plurality — some parties with more insistently than others; it has already been said here: in the case of Pontevedra province, in a much more important way— and there is no other thing happening to the People's Party than to skip the existing legislation; this People's Party for what these days the word of order is that there is to comply with the law, that the law is to be fulfilled, that the law cannot be skipped, unless, in fact, it is for ordinary citizens who do not have the Constitutional Court, does not have the Civil Guard, does not have the National Police to go in their defence. They don't have those resources, which can be spent thousands of euros, millions, to defend the rights of neighbours and neighbours. So the law is to be fulfilled whenever it is on the side of power and on the side of interests. When issues as elementary as disability are at risk, as dependency, it turns out that there the law may remain for another time. That is why we are going to support this initiative which is being presented in Marea, but we are proposing an amendment in the direction of not only increasing equipment, which is fundamental and is a demand that has been made for a long time, but ensuring that each of these teams complies with the legislation in force. The legislation in force is the Order of 25 November 2015 which regulates this procedure for the recognition of the declaration and qualification of the degree of disability, that in its Article 6, where it speaks of the composition and functioning of the assessment bodies, says that each assessment and advisory body will have a minimum composition of a medical professional, a psychologist or a psychologist and a social worker and may be integrated by another territorial staff with a social and health profile. It says, "older," in no case says that it can be done solely by a health professional, which is what the People's Party is trying to do right now with that agreement that it has just signed with Sergas, where it wants to make part of these ratings exclusively by a doctor or a doctor, completely skipping all the legislation in force. And not only that, but it does refer to that in Article 19.6 it can be changed on the basis of special circumstances of the person concerned that he cannot for some reason turn to those equipment, but to the person concerned, not by a discretionary and unilateral decision of the council. And even more: it establishes legislation on whether access to clinical history will only be made by staff other than the equipment, by authorization of the person concerned, and it turns out that this agreement, which we do not know whether it is in force or not, or how it is, because there are totally contradictory objections by the Galician Union itself in this regard -- one part says it is in force, another part says that it is being studied...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u169	...then establish the mechanisms so Sergas staff can access these people's data without their permission. It seems to us that we are in the face of a genuine disincentive, we are in the presence of a discretionary and unilateral action by the Galician Group, the People's Party, skipping all these people's rights, trying to lower the waiting list without doing what they have to do, which is to allocate resources and budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u171	...of the same. We shall vote in favour of this initiative whether it is approved or whether it accepts the amendment or not. And, of course, what we ask the People's Party is to rectify and not carry out this disincentive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u173	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. From the Socialist Group today we want to remember that we are missing in this country 1,534 people, these refugees and refugees who had to be here if we didn't have an unusual, unfair government, and that makes their citizenship ashamed and colorful. [[Applause]] It's not a refugee country, nor is it a country for people with disabilities or dependents. This initiative of En Marea is very similar to the one we presented and discussed on 8 June in Commission 5a. He didn't go ahead with the votes against the People's Party. What we were asking for, precisely, was to increase these disability assessment teams. The neglect in these equipment, in the number and resources of material and human resources, is not something new, nor is it new the aging of our population. It's been exactly fifteen years since 2002, without convening squares for these teams. And of course, from those muds these muds, a waiting list of more than 17,000 files that are building up. This is not only denounced by the opposition groups, it is also by the People's Valley itself, which says it is causing this serious situation to those people who demand the valuation of disability; some of them, delays in the demand for discounts in collective transport, parking lots, economic benefits, and even in the autonomous community that has the lowest rate of occupation of persons with disabilities there was a boy who could not submit himself to some oppositions from Galician Union for not having made that valuation. And in view of this situation, what did the German Government do? Create squares? No, what he did was a remedy: signing a collaboration agreement between two advisors, increasing or trying to increase the workload of the medical staff at the Sergas service with a two-week workshop for these people to do the work that others have been doing for a long time; a measure that we consider to be short-pracist, that is not going to solve this problem, that throws balloons out and that is a patch that is expensive, more expensive than creating squares for public buildings. It's not effective, ladies and gentlemen, because these teams aren't just health personnel, there are social personnel. So what's going to happen? That the records will be resolved on the health side and accumulated on the social side. I don't know — and I don't know how you can clarify the voice of the People's Party when you get up here — if the claim is also to continue to sign agreements for psychologists, for social workers, or even for private entities, something that we have not ruled out since the Socialist Group that you are in the mind of the German Government. We've been asking for time -- and they've misunderstood us; seeing that today, Mr. Sánchez, you're luckier -- we've been complaining for years, too in this commission, it wasn't to increase the workload for public employees, it was to increase staff in these units. I'm saying that if the issue of voting against the Socialist Party was a bad interpretation of the People's Group, because to see if on this occasion the Group of En Marea is a little more fortunate than we are and is able to take forward something that we think is a priority and that affects the day-to-day lives of thousands of people in this country. In case it was little, I'm sorry, all of this is done behind the staff. They do not meet with the Inter-Centre Committee, which are tired of asking them for a meeting, simply to know what the plans of the council are and how they plan to carry out this assignment of competence, which is how we qualify from the Socialist Group. They even gave a press round on August 1st. And from here we ask you — in addition to saying that we are going to support this initiative and vote in favour — to the Social Policy Adviser who meets, that dialogue with the staff of the evaluation teams, to remove them from this uncertainty in which they have been known this measure which, as if positive, announced by the President of the Council of Galicia to the plate. And of course, what they have to do is to summon these squares, which are the necessary ones, the necessary ones for these disability rating teams to function efficiently and agilely for these people. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. You bring an initiative to this plenary today, which was already discussed last June in the Health Committee, in which the People's Group agrees on the essence of it, because we also want to shorten the waiting times for the degree of disability. But what we don't agree with is the solutions you're proposing to solve this problem. And explain. In the autonomous community there are seven sections of qualifications, with several rating teams in each of them: The Coruña has 4; Ferrol, 2; Santiago, 2; Lugo, 2; Ourense, 3; Pontevedra, 3; and Vigo, 3. And the goal — and I repeat again that I want to make it clear that we share it absolutely, Mr Sánchez — that is to reduce the number of pending recognition files and achieve that assessment within the time limit set by the regulations, we believe that it is not a matter that depends solely on the reinforcement of the equipment. In each particular case, in each section there is a different problem. I'm working and I know that it depends on the sections, on which there are some problems and others to solve the same file, so we presented an amendment in the June commission that was not accepted, and I was just trying to study the impact of the improvement measures that the Government of Greece is implementing to analyze, with objective data, whether or not it is necessary to increase EVO personnel. For you, Your Honor, what is important: that the problem of waiting time is solved or that the squares of the review teams increase? For us, of course, their first. We think it's also the most important thing for citizens in Galicia who are currently waiting and finding themselves in these circumstances. And it's true that the number of requests has been greatly increased. It has increased by many factors: by population ageing, by the progressive increase in the number of benefits that are occurring in the different socio-economic areas addressed to people with disabilities, by the progressive increase in requests to review the degree of disability as a result of the previous two. And this means that if you're doing the right thing and the Government of Feijóo is dedicating social policy to a large part of the budget, and in particular disability is getting more beneficial policies for people, so what I didn't ask for before — and that's very important — today demands it. From the Government, continuous improvement actions are being implemented to reduce these processing times to ensure that the deadlines are met and to finish these waiting lists. Since 2011, 23.78% of the files have been reduced and more actions have been implemented since 2013 than we speak in the Health Committee — which I am not going to repeat here for lack of time. The EVOs of Ferrol and Santiago were strengthened with dependency technicians, modified the RPT of Santiago and Ferrol, where reinforcement posts are foreseen in the valuation sections, and the Town Councils of Coruña were redistributed according to the units to improve attention. At this point, we are working on the implementation of measures, for which the appropriate collaboration agreements with the Health Council have been signed, regarding access to the clinical history of applicants by EVO doctors; that is, EVO doctors can access the Ianus, which will assume the advantages of the rapid resolution of these files, and will also be strengthened through Sergas-dependent medical professionals. We are quite sure, Mr. Sánchez, that we do not make the best plans as ambitious as left-wing governments do in the Dependency Act, for example, but it is very easy — and you will give me reason — to make a law without economic endowment. We do what we do, taking into account the resources we have. [[Murmurs.]] The other option, which Mrs. Blanco has already pointed out, to solve the delays in valuations would be outsourcing, but I suppose you won't agree with it. We're certainly not. We, from the Popular Group, prefer it to be the public employees of the Galician Health Service who take part in this issue, which produces so many headbreakers to the Greeks and Greeks who are waiting for their valuation. Don't you trust me to do the right thing to do with the health care staff? We of course do, we are sure that both Sergas doctors and EVO doctors will do the recognitions and accelerate this process, which is what really matters to the citizens of Galicia. [[Applause]] We even intend to facilitate not only the work of EVO staff but also the resolution of their assessment to all these people, avoiding displacements in many cases. Mr. Torrado isn't here and he won't listen to me, but we are in favour of bringing the service closer to the administration and we are proving it. The German Government if you care about people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u177	...to facilitate things—and end, Mr President—and to put in place all the mechanisms necessary to eliminate pending applications. With regard to point 2, Mrs Prado, if you comply with the regulations, because it was a regulation that made precisely the Government of Beijóo, so it would be a little absurd not to comply with the orders itself. [[Murmurs.]] With regard to point 3 where you request information — and I have already finished, Mr President — to the Inter-Centre Committee, I am told by the Social Policy Council that the agreements have been moved on two occasions to the Personnel Committee, which is the representative of the entire staff of the Self-Government. Therefore — no longer having time — we cannot support your initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u179	Thank you, President. Of course, we agree that the priority here is to reduce the waiting lists, of course, yes, but that's precisely why we criticize the solution, which we don't even know, because it's false that the legitimate representatives of workers and workers know this agreement, it's false. And if you want, since it is not for the People's Group to receive the Intercentries Committee, I'm going to leave your claims to the president and you can consult with them. And it is also clear that we are discussing this issue in Commission 5th, but they have left this matter pending for September. There are still some 17,000 files on the waiting list, there are still people who need that degree of disability to be recognized to access, as you know, the many rights that have been guaranteed to them by that law called dependency, which seems to be a lie that you do not recognize that it was the People's Party who took that development away from you. So, precisely, because we want to reduce these intolerable waiting lists, we present the solution that we think is achievable: on the one hand, covering the posts that allow to meet the structural needs, which there are, which, in addition, we are a very old-fashioned population; but on the other hand, of course we open ourselves to study what kind of demand is the best, and surely, better than paying Sergas extra hours for these individual ratings, it will be better to hire to get those 17,000 files forward and in any case to dialogue with the representatives of workers and workers on those teams on which is the best solution. This issue has a serious impact not only on users and people who need this degree of disability assessment to access these rights, but also on municipal social services. That is why we here have representatives of the Ribadumia Council, who came to Parliament to denounce that they had already sent a motion in 2016 — even if they do not have it — which was presented by register at the Social Policy Council on 14 November 2016, in which they denounced those intolerable delays of 18 months. And after the Commission's debate 5th, which we referred to, we went to Ribadumia and precisely — what a chance! — at that time comes the resolution of a file in which this degree of disability assessment was requested on 2 December 2014 and is resolved on 9 June 2017. It can't be, the expectations are intolerable, the solution doesn't seem to us, and it also seems to us that we would request this draft of the agreement through Article 9 and if it answers us: it's being draft, and the unions don't have it — we ask — because we have the draft. Why aren't they transparent? And why, however, do doctors receive information from your College long before we ask for it, the information that this agreement is going to be? Something's wrong here. Here it happens that it is not ruled transparently. This happens to follow people with those intolerable waiting lists. That's why we kept our solution and, in addition, we reinforced it with that self-amendment that we did, which we believe is important to stress. Let's hope it's taken care of by all groups. We agree to incorporate the amendment of the Block, which is something that doesn't add anything new. So we hope that it will be taken into account, and not only by the users who cannot access these rights, but also by the community social services, who are overwhelmed by the incompetence of this government, because they cannot comply with their own rule of resolution in three months.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u180	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialist of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to increase the convening of public competitions for drafting projects of architecture and urbanism, as well as to provide formulas for the participation of new professionals and small studies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u181	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u182	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I would like to greet the architecture professionals who accompany us today in the gallery, representatives of the Official College of Architects of Galicia, as well as independent architects and architects who today wanted to be here with us. Welcome and thank you for bringing your concerns and contributions, which are the basis for this non-law proposal. I want to start defending this initiative by mentioning two concepts that for a few years seem to be forgotten, and that are the quality and the opportunity. The decline or absence of both of them over the last few years are linked to the economic crisis, which has begun more than ten years ago. And let us not be mistaken: their failure is not exclusive to a single sector, but it has affected most of the Galicians and the Greeks. But it is true that if there was a sector clearly affected, it was that of construction. This fact brings together official economic and labor data. According to IGE data, 45,614 new plant dwellings were executed in Galicia in 2007, while in 2015, the last year of official data was only 1,149. But perhaps the most serious and the most accentuated crisis in this sector was the rapid slowdown it suffered, unable to recover in time. In 2008, less than half of the buildings in 2007 and in 2009 were already one third of the previous year, thus reaching this year of 2017 with an activity of 3.43% of that in 2007. This means that where 100 visas were made or 100 works were now only four. They account: if in 2015 fewer than 2,500 housing projects were targeted, considering that in Galicia they are currently exercising some 2,700 collective architects and architects, the thing is that the proportion doesn't even go out to one project per professional. This is reality, which affects these 2,700 professionals, but which, in addition, moves to the 2,440 technical architects assembled in Galicia, as well as all the professionals involved and linked to the construction sector; these are the delineators, the geologists, the topographers, the albanians, the enfractors, the welders, the ferralists, the carpenters, the masterpieces, the crystallists, the electric installers... we are therefore talking about thousands of jobs, a long chain of crisis-affected, a sector that continues to agonize after ten years from the beginning of the crisis. It was commented on in the exhibition part of this initiative as the number of architects gathered fell in about five hundred professionals. And if we're aware that the architects and architects licensed in recent years and that Galicia even collects professionals trained in architectural schools, especially in northern Portugal, can't be more than worrying. The logic tells us the number would have gone up but never come down. This has a clear reading: that there are many graduates and graduates who have had to leave Galicia in recent years. And let's talk here, so one of the two concepts that I introduced at first, let's talk about the opportunity. The generations that began their professional independence in 2007-2008, after being many of them and false self-sufficient for years in studies that the crisis had to eliminate from them and from them, found themselves in a difficult reality to assume. The lack of construction activity projects, the lack of contrastable experience as editors or directors of work, has caused some to retrain their professional work towards other activities, and many others have been forced to seek work abroad. And I want to make it clear, it wasn't people motivated by adventure, by filling up their resumes, by traveling, by knowing the world, something that here in some debate has already insinuated Mr Feijóo. Let us not make this diaspora of the better-prepared generations of the recent history of Galicia and Spain a matter of desire, for it was an act of responsibility and obligation to their own future. Today, ten years later, many of them and many of them no longer live in Galicia, and that's why today I also want to quote some of them specifically. Sandra and Carlos live in Lima, Peru, with two children born there; Fatima and Jesus, in Germany, with a child born there; Miguel and Yolanda, in Brussels, with three children, also born there. They all work as architects. And I could talk about many others and many others, but those I just named, as well as many others, are examples of excellent professionals academically, and awarded professionally on our land, when there was work. But — and I want to stress this — they saw themselves forced to leave. And in his case by the fact, if he gets worse, if he's a couple of architects, unable to survive by the extreme difficulty that at least one of them found a job in the profession for which they were trained. This, ladies and gentlemen, has a name, it is called a lost talent, which is now so much named in this House. Six of them left, and with them, six other future Greeks and Greeks, the generational renewal of which so much hurts this land, the future talent that we may lose, that yes, forever. And that also has a name, it's called a lost future. So let's talk about the opportunities they and they didn't find. One of the points of the initiative we are presenting today calls for a review of the criteria for the awarding of contracts to provide for formulae for participation by younger professionals, and for small studies. We are therefore talking about the defence of small liberals, or self-employed, as well as the small studies of two or three professionals, who, by the size of their businesses, see themselves with serious problems, not totally impossible, to opt for public procurement. It was many of the competition processes that were carried out in the years prior to the crisis. And I just want to remember today the public housing contests that in 2007 were auctioned, and in which many of the younger and younger and younger students and professionals got the opportunity to participate. It was a big bet for the housing policy at that time, and for equal opportunities for professionals in the sector. And that is what we are demanding from this initiative: that positive discrimination measures be put in place to allow younger architects to access recruitment processes, both large and small. And as my affront, this honourable Member is always constructive and proactive — I hope it will always be — they will gather the witness of experiences already carried out by the College of Galician Architects themselves in which competitions were promoted in which one of the participation clauses precisely required the presence of at least one new architect or architect on the drafting team. These are the exemplary measures that we expect from an autonomous administration like this, which we understand that I should do my best, on the one hand, to retain talent, and, on the other, to provide employment opportunities for professionals with more difficulties. And now we're talking about another concept of quality. You argue that contests for ideas and projects only fit when the works are huge and when the times allow. They say -- and so they comment on it in their written response to this same initiative -- the readiness for quality. We have made it clear that these types of contests are the ones that ensure the quality of the works, whether these are large or small, and not the times of execution. Speaking of quality is talking about the ability to read the territory, to visualize the future of an area, the synergies that a building will cause around it, to propose the best constructive quality, the best functionality, its adequacy to use. That's the quality, the sum of all of this, the ability to propose the best project that responds to all the conditions of a place and of previous needs. And all this has to do with talent, and it goes with people. It's the contests of ideas that best take advantage of that talent, and it's the most talented that should develop the public buildings in Galicia. Because the Greeks and the Greeks deserve something more than function containers that are stable simply to the rain and the wind. The Greeks deserve architecture in the quality that is required for tourism, for gastronomy, for the textile sector. If you promote the quality of Greek products, of Welsh tourism, of Galician fashion, of Welsh culture, you promote the quality of buildings, which will be the heritage of all Greeks and Greeks, by setting an example and putting emphasis on talent. We all deserve schools, kindergartens, health centers, social centers, day centres, elderly residences, markets, pools and quality public spaces. They understand that a contest of ideas gives the Administration the possibility of choosing, in addition, many tangible proposals, not only based on a purely technical or experience profile. These contests are actually also used to dominate the efforts of professionals who are finalists, something that has served and served in the past as merits precisely in the face of future contests. And this is opening doors to the future, which many have not found. So we are asking for the increase of these, and we are asking you to make a commitment to set those targets quantitatively that has the horizon set by 2020. At the expense of continuing the exhibition in the replica round, I really look forward to the support of all the groups for this initiative, and, in any case, to be able to negotiate an agreement that reaches a consensus. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome, and a greeting also to the professionals who accompany us. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Party is actually bringing in an initiative to raise the demands of one of the sectors most affected by the crisis. The descent of the number of visas, as Mrs. Pierres said, had consequences, because the crisis had a special effect on the construction sector. Over the years, the work of the professionals in this sector has been reduced, if one perceives a clear improvement, to which the policies launched by the Council of Galicia help. According to the competence framework of the Territorial Management Board, the General Directorate for Territorial and Urban Planning provides grants to municipal planning and funds works of the Hurbe Plan in the municipalities: humanization, urbanization and equipment projects. In the first case, it is the council that hires, and in the second case, funding takes place well with agreements that materialize by direct transfer to the councils or by full financing of the Directorate-General. It would also be appropriate, Mrs Pierres, that, in addition to encouraging the autonomous administration to put in place this initiative, also the councils where you govern or the Members you govern — three of the four Members of our autonomous community — take note of this initiative and its proposals, with which the People's Parliamentary Group agrees, and so on. We have tabled an amendment and I believe it is possible to reach an agreement, because the People's Parliamentary Group has also received demands from this group. We meet with representatives of the Galician College of Architects and we receive these amendments, those suggestions to the State Contracts Act. We have transferred to our colleagues and colleagues from the Congress of Deputies the so-called claims — that they had also come from the Higher Council of Colleges of Architects of Spain. And of the 13 amendments presented by the Higher Council, 7 were accepted in full with the literal text proposed by the Council, and 3, in part. We're talking about 10 of 13, almost 80% of the claims were collected in that bill that was passed at the Congress of Deputies, which is now in the Senate and will return to Congress to be final. Because of the amendments I saw that they were presented in the Senate, those demands are not touched; that is, there are no amendments on those issues in which there was agreement in the Congress of Deputies. But what is true is that we also agree that we have to support small studies, we have to support the new professionals, the younger people, and that's why in our amendment and I believe that, later on, in a text that we are working to deal with, we are improving even the text of the proposal as well as the text of our amendment. And if we can all reach an agreement like the one reached at the Congress of Deputies, because I believe that the needs and demands of these professionals — especially of the younger ones, which we are most concerned about giving these professionals job opportunities — can be perfectly resolved; although we can always do more, of course, but in this case I think so. You were talking about project contests, Mrs. Pierres. We believe that they must apply to interventions of particular architectural or urban relevance, such as the recently called competition for the transformation of the bus station to the building of the Galician Administration. And in these particular transcendence, in which proposals can be very varied and offer different city solutions, or intervention in the territory, because it may be interesting to adjudicate the service solely on objective technical criteria. But as there are other issues that cannot be subjected to a contest of ideas, such as the renewal of a building's roof — which sometimes happens in schools, in health centers, examples that you have put here — because, indeed, you cannot generalize in all cases. Here goes our amendment, and there goes our proposal a little bit. So all our efforts are aimed at job creation, and mainly at younger ones. And in that sense we believe that, in addition to all these issues that were resolved in the Congress of Members, such as increasing the years of technical solvency, primaryizing the quality in relation to the economic offer, adding in the object of the competition to the direction of work, also increasing the open or restricted procedures, compulsory economic compensation at the second stage of the contest, extending the members of the jury with the same qualification as that required by the participants, the binding nature of the jury's dictatorship and the regulatory development of the provisions on project contests — I insist that not only the autonomous administration, but also all the councils, which are included in the governing the Socialist Party, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Tides of Powers, and also the three deputies governed by the Socialist Party, Mrs Pierres, should have lost sight. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u187	Good afternoon. This initiative focuses on a reality that is more than obvious in recent years, that of precariousness, that of instability and increasing unemployment in all construction-related professions, as it has been said here, and that has led to the loss of hundreds of professional jobs; not only in architecture, of course. It seems important to us to make a reference to the causes of this situation, which is not exactly, we understand, from the BNG, the crisis, but the failure of an economic model, of the cracking of that brick culture, of speculation and of the rapid benefit to the bank and to the promoters who have led to serious social consequences, to real social dramas and also to a brutal reduction in the work of public initiative and also of the work of private initiative. So we are, or we must be, in a debate on the necessary change of this economic model, which goes, among other things, by encouraging public investment, investment in equipment and infrastructure related to public works, construction and housing, rehabilitation, urban regeneration — both in cities, in villages and in rural areas — with cultural heritage, with natural heritage, with mobility different from that which currently prevails. And all this would also serve to increase economic activity and job creation, I say, with an important role of the public sector and public initiative. The reality is that we're focusing debate on competitions, and competitions in case they're not a panacea either. In recent times we have often heard critical views of professionals and colleges of architectural professionals on this issue. And I quote an example that can be representative of many opinions in this regard: "The call for architectural contests by the Administration and privates has become a method of obtaining almost free of charge the value-added approach of quality, offering in return some gratifications, when there are, more and more demanding." We therefore share the concern about this situation and this demand made by the Socialist Group, although it does not exactly convince us of the 10% formula; we believe that the debate is really in another area: it has to do with this reform of the Public Sector Contracts Act in order to transpose the European guidelines. It seems to us that the path is those amendments that were formulated by the State Architects' College, which, some of them, indeed, have been taken into account — the text of that law is not yet approved — and we understand that the way is to deepen these issues; and, in any case, to develop the law with regulations or codes — which we must also do here, in Galicia — of good practice, codes on project contests, establishing, for example, that the bidding of architectural and urban services, today, are intellectual provision and therefore have different characteristics to other services. We also believe that it is essential to move forward in the need for two phases of the project competition system: a first phase in which an idea, a preliminary draft is presented and, in the second phase already, the selected proposals develop a final project, and in such cases — it seems logical — there is economic compensation to the participants. We also agree, of course, to increase the period of years of solvency and experience against that very restrictive criterion which was, in principle, in the text of the law. And we also find it timely and necessary — even in line with European guidelines — to improve what would be the incentive and promotion of participation of young pemmes and professionals in project competitions. And we also, of course, support that evaluation criteria give priority to the quality of projects, to technical and functional values, and to architectural and environmental values. And we also share that jurors have to be composed mostly of experts and that their criterion has to be decisive, it has to be a priority, so we're going to support this initiative, although we don't share exactly this line of percentages. And we feel it is more appropriate to open a debate, which must also be held in this Parliament, about the need for us to have in Galicia a code of good practice, on the path that seems to profile that new law, so that we really advance and improve practices with regard to project contests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u188	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u189	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon to the people who accompany us also in the rostrum. Our group is going to vote in favour of this initiative presented by the Socialist Party today, because it collects the demands of a very relevant collective, which is going through a difficult situation arising from the construction sector crisis. We support this concrete demand, which transfers the Greek Parliament to the Galician Union, and the allegations made by the schools of architects, focused on two very concrete actions, referring to a partial aspect of the problem of this collective. In the councils of change, where we rule — as Mrs Prado says, "The Tides of Podemos" — we have already taken steps in this direction to dignify the work of this collective — you must better inform yourself before you come here: therefore, we seem completely fit. Having said that, we will use the time of this intervention to broaden the focus of the problem, not only of the architects but of the whole sector, of the people who work in the construction, of the role of this sector in the economic structure and the crisis. One of the differential elements of the global crisis, both in Galicia and in the Spanish state as a whole, was the explosion of the real estate bubble. The construction, both of housing and of civil work and public infrastructure, has reached a disproportionate weight in Spain and Galicia in economic activity and employment. For more than a decade, it has been creating a speculative situation under the responsibility of the lobby builder, in alliance with the banker, who has counted on the complicity of the different governments, which has had very negative effects on the economic structure and the production specialization; an unsustainable situation that, when it exploded, has led ahead of thousands of businesses, millions of jobs and a good part of the financial system. A time of swindling to citizenship, because the lack of public housing policies and the theft of real estate have made it difficult to access the housing of families, who had to devote themselves to their entire lives in order to pay inflated housing. The recession, aggravated by the explosion of this bubble, also sentenced many families, who were expelled from their homes, while generating a huge park of uninhabited dwellings: homeless people and homeless people. In terms of employment, Spain has increased from 2.5 million direct jobs in construction to only 863,000: 1.6 million jobs have been lost. In Galicia, we went from 131,000 in 2008 to 61,000 in 2014: we lost more than 1 in 2 jobs directly employed in the sector, regardless of industries and other related activities. And in the second quarter of 2017, the number of occupations is just 62,300. These figures mark the limits of what should be the role and weight of the sector in the Greek economy, moving in an intermediate position between the current minimum and the unsustainable level of 2008: the sector should move around 100,000 jobs. Now, to get back to the level of activity and employment, you can't go back to the mistakes of the past; you can't go back to building airports without airplanes or highways without cars. Recovering the level of activity that allows architects to get back to work and also the rest of the people who work in construction is acting with intelligence and economic and social logic, which, in En Marea's view, goes through four axes: on the one hand, a housing rehabilitation plan, because a relevant part of them is aged and even constructed with low quality states. Rehabilitation to improve livingability, advance energy efficiency or solve accessibility problems to improve people's lives. On the other hand, a public housing policy, especially in rent schemes, to give a real opportunity to access housing to people with limited resources and how to prevent a new speculative scale. Another question would be the recovery of public investment necessary for social infrastructures, health care, education or protection for dependents, which would enable improvements in many facilities damaged by lack of maintenance. And finally, a smart policy of investing in proximity infrastructures, in works necessary to articulate economic and social life, which acts in terms of sustainability and intermodality, which abandons the logic of pharaonic works in favor of the logic of the need for the productive apparatus and people. It's over. What we propose is to get back to work to get back to work, that of architects and architects, but also that of the rest of the professionals in the sector. And to do it from intelligence and responsibility not to move on a path that has led us to disaster. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u190	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u191	Thank you, President. Well, thank you, firstly, for the support of the parliamentary groups and for the intention, moreover, to reach agreements on an issue which, I believe, is fair to a sector which has already been severely punished. Also, thank you, Mrs. Prado, for the advice; but don't stop sleeping on this subject, which tells me that the College of Architects itself is also crashing in other gates and administrations. So sleep quietly. Mr. Bará, you're right, there's a lot to work on the formulas and clauses of the project contests and move forward in that code of good practices that you're commenting on. I also hope that this debate can be held here in the future. On the other hand, I am grateful for the support, since here, with this initiative, it was not even intended to ask for more contracts, no more bids, no more housing; this initiative only speaks of the primacy of quality, even if it is little of the new work that is being carried out, and also of support to those who have less opportunities. The question of asking for more public work, especially public housing, is, gentlemen of the People's Party, almost non-existent to this day; let's leave it for another day. And already to further illustrate the situation of the younger architects — and here, I would like to make an incision: an architect was thought to be new until he was 40 years old and is by the mere fact of the slowness of the construction process—... he said that to all those architects, who were false autonomouss for years, who were collaborators of studies, within our community or others, who with the crisis neglected their services, I ask: What option was left for them? Do you realize that, in spite of its worth, since many were executioners in the shadow of many of the best projects in this community, that value and experience is useless to them if they don't prove contracts or addresses to their name? The same thing that happens with many women architects, who, being co-participants with their pair of architectural studies, decided, together with their partners, not to be collected to save study expenses, which prevented them from appearing as co-authors of many projects that have been carried out and therefore cannot, today, believe that solvency or experience. This is also another issue, which speaks of transversality, of the establishment of equality measures between men and women — rather than the lack of measures — and which would also be the result of another initiative. And to finish this speech: in this House, you always talk about the small entrepreneur, the impulse he needs, the help he gives to push him, to which he stands, to applaud those and the brave ones who take their own path. For this is the time for them to show their support and to capture the talent, encourage them to rise and stay, because it's no use giving them everything to start with if they don't have potential customers. Remember the figure I gave earlier: less than one charge per architect in Galicia. Yesterday, I was told by a person who didn't understand how state administrations and autonomics didn't put in place contract termination clauses for everyone leaving Galicia, as clubs do for footballers. They are formed here, with the means of the country, but the fruit of all that effort, which is a joint future for a country, is lost and left. Use this comment and reflection, at least, to make us recapitulate on the low esteem that this country has for its own talents and, especially, in scientific or technical careers. Let's do our best to pee, encourage and convince everyone who's gone here that they have a gap and that we've taken their worth into account. We add talent, quality and opportunities and secure a future for Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. If they negotiate the transaction, they make me come up with the deal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions of the Government of Galicia in connection with the project of building a commercial macrocomplex and leisure in the municipal mountain of Lineirinos-Capral
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u193	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u194	Good afternoon. I would like to welcome this Parliament to the representation of Cabral's neighbourhood, which is here. And I would like to expressly acknowledge his example of struggle, a struggle in defense of the mountain against speculation, against the spoils of the heritage and the destruction of the local commercial fabric that is attempted to be perpetrated; a struggle against a predatory, impoverished, exploitation and precarious economic model, which we believe is also a clear example of that speculative economy, of the casino and brick economy — precisely what we have talked about before — which led us to that catastrophe. A system, a predatory model of soil and mountain, for the private and impoverishing benefit of the local economy, destroying stable employment and creating precarious employment, and also destructive of urban tissue — and this is one of the main impacts of these major macroprojects: that desert urban centers, and we have nearby examples of cities in Greece that are suffering from this situation—. And when the urban tissue is destroyed, it's eliminating that spinal function and cohesion that has the trade in our cities. These are projects that have strong environmental impacts not only in terms of the destruction of the landscape and the mountain, but also in terms of mobility, causing unnecessary displacement to the periphery for shopping, causing pollution, waste of time, dehumanization and also, usually, often, the outcome that causes the construction of access. This is, Cabral's, we can say that a fight by David against Goliath, a struggle in which David has already had important successes and victories, such as, for example, the fact that he won Cabral's neighborhood, an assemblage of the mountain community in which he was approved by most of them to reject the sale of land for this project in 2013. That is democracy, the democracy of neighbourhood saying "no" to this project, fighting and having this democratic victory facing and against all the powerful economic, propaganda machinery, giants of the speculative economy and macro-negotiations such as INTU and Eurofund Investments, which are multinationals that are promoting throughout the state these great macro-projects, such as Zaragoza, as in Malaga, as in Mallorca, and who use lots of money to buy wills, to try to buy public opinion with illusions, promises, engagements and avid. You've already said that old quote that it's easier to conquer with bellows than with rifles. They are multinational companies expert in manipulation, who are leading this millionaire propaganda campaign, with an included survey, a very rigorous popular consultation, in which they should ask people if they want 4,000 jobs to be created in the Vigo area. They're talking about an investment of 685 million euros and it's a project more than green, a project, with everything I said before, more than green. I mean, the fantasy of Yupi's worlds. Now, beyond that propaganda campaign, beyond that attempt to buy wills, they come with a campaign to condition the administration's decisions by trying to make laws and rules tailored to the powerful, preparing the ground for these new rules that they intend to impose and use as allies also a certain indigenous collaboration — which is proper to all these colonial projects — with, above all, the support of the directive of the Cubral Mountain Community, that directive that has lost that assembly in which the neighbourhood said "no" to this project. And, of course, in the face of this situation and these attempts now that decisions are made by the Administration, there are those who have a clear stance and there are those who move in ambiguity. And we think this debate is going to serve, it's going to be useful, precisely for everyone to draw up and say what they think, what they think, about this project, a project of a macro-centre commercial and leisure that would assume the occupation of more than 300,000 square meters of the communal mountain, a phantom project that didn't go through the infographic phase; with large brands like Ikea, which has already been installed practically throughout the nearby territory and we see it very difficult for you to be interested in this project that is going to put years there — that we hope it won't — and with ski slopes with artificial snow, with an artificial navigable pond. As you can see, everything, very perfectly artificial. And with that millionaire and propaganda super campaign right now, there's no pre-project, there's no project, no study of viability, no environmental impact or anything like it. This was a development envisaged in the Vigo General Plan as a public initiative, and since this plan is annulled by a decision of justice, for it has no other way to go forward than the project promoters are now attempting, which is a proposal not of popular initiative law — the people, not of the People's Party — that seeks to urge the administration to develop Porto Cabral as a supra-municipal project or as a project of public interest. Of course, as if it were a hospital, as if it were a school, as if it were a public service of real public interest, they want to give this character of public interest to an initiative that clearly seeks speculation, the maximum benefit, the private benefit of large multinationals who leave their impacts here and take the benefits out. If they don't have this formula, which, of course, when you get here, will have to be supported by some of the groups present in this House, because this is how these initiatives are handled, the popular initiatives of non-law proposals, because they now have another solution in the People's Party, which is the new Act on the implementation of business initiatives, which includes figures such as the declaration of singular business projects or strategic industrial projects. And we suppose you'll be thinking about some of these formulas to support this Cabral macro-project, going over municipal competences and also sectoral legislation. But, around this project of Linens there are many shaded areas, there are many maneuvers in the darkness, lots of concealment and many suspicions. It's a project that is under suspicion and under the shadows of dubious legality. And here, in this process, there is a key role for the directive of the Cubral Mountain Community, with actions that border legality or that are clearly within the illegality, allegedly delitative — and there are judicial procedures opened on this issue precisely—with an economic management that is not transparent and not democratic, and taking decisions such as, for example, the interchanges of fraudulent land that were made on 10 April 2012, in which two grouped plots were exchanged, one of them being sold to the Council for 198,000 euros, qualified as urban soil for industrial use, by two plots grouped together with rustic forest protection soil and which were moved to a private promoter called Grucave. Well, do you know how much the plots of the mountain community were valued? In more than 800,000 euros. And the plots of Grucave, between 70,000 and 80,000 euros. This is precisely why this permut is under judicial investigation; and the president of the mountain community, charged with improper appropriation. Also in the last years 2012, 2013 and 2014 the mountain community carried out land purchase, without the permission of the Galician Union, worth more than 2 million euros. This seems extremely serious to us because the Galician Union is giving up its functions and is not watching for the fulfilment of the Mountain Law. It's allowing this mountainous community, that this directive, better said, to act as a real estate agency by buying land, trading on land, to promote this business project. Illegal works of exploration of the mountains have also been denounced, cuts of unauthorized trees. And recently, the construction of a walk in the Lagares River has been denounced without permission from Galician Waters, a work that has an investment of more than 1.5 million euros and that the BNG will also have this debate in this House, because it seems to us to be a coat of hair that is allowed from the Autonomic Administration to make these illegalities. Therefore, we are faced with a "no end" of irregularities with the complicit passivity of the board of Galicia despite all the complaints of the communers of the parish. We think we need to put a stop to this project, which is a project that has a negative impact, a landscape impact, a negative environmental impact, an impact on employment and the economy. And the way to do it is from the powers of the Town Hall and also from the powers of the Union. The Town Hall, of course, would have to make a plan, a new plan, which prevents this aberration which is intended to be committed in the mountain of Cabral's parish. And it's up to Junta, in the use of her powers, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u196	...for example, what we propose is to approve a sectoral plan of commercial equipment and a ten-year moratorium on the establishment of large commercial areas in the area of Vigo, as well as to exercise control and monitoring over the operation — so that it is a clear, transparent and democratic operation — of the Community of Mount Cabral. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u197	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Bará, since I'm told you know that history matters, I'm going to go to the story in this case. I'm going to go to the story because I think you told a part of what's happening, but you forgot about someone else. I'm sure you know who Lois Pérez Castrillo is, I'm sure you know who Xabier Toba is, and I'm sure you know who Xabier Rivas was. They were the mayor of Vigo, the town councillor and the city's urbanist manager, the Vigo Town Hall. And you know perfectly well that the general plan proposed by a government presided over by Mr. Castrillo cost the mayor of a socialist mayor. Because the Galego Nationalist Block took his support and allowed Corina Porro to be mayor of Vigo the rest of the legislation. If you like, I'll give you the dates: exactly on December 13, 2003. That plan, which is the plan of 2008 -- it's not surprising, I don't think I'm saying anything that's false -- the plan adopted in 2008, recognized the scope of the PAU-6 Cotogrande as unplanned urbanizable ground, urbanizable soil for commercial use, no public use. I don't know who told him, but they told him wrong. Commercial floor! And commercial soil — at least in my head — is commerce, it's commerce. I will not defend the great multinationals of leisure, leisure, and commercial surfaces. But what you can't fake is the political-urban history of the Vigo Town Hall in the last two decades. I don't think you can and, of course, you shouldn't, you shouldn't. So this is the first question: 1.5 million euros that — I insist — cost the Socialist Party of Galicia the mayor of Vigo, because it was a sine qua condition not of the Nationalist Block Galego to support Ventura Pérez Mariño as mayor of Vigo. And so it would be nice if this were also in the act so that we could have all the data. That said, I will not defend the current directive. I suppose he'll defend himself alone. What is true is that it seems absolutely lawful to me that, with compensation paid to the mountain community for the public occupation of land — for example, Aena — if you buy other mountains. And if someone doesn't seem lawful or seems speculative and trafficking of what influences you don't know, man, it would be nice if I had explained it, in addition to saying so. Because I honestly do not understand it, but it may be a problem of understanding this Member. An architect I believe that sovereign in what is Vigo's work and his own urban conception of Vigo and his area, as is Salvador Fraga, which you certainly know, said at some point, with good sense, that an industrial city, and that it has plenty of services specialized in support of the industry, needs a sector of important commercial services. I don't know if you have to be in Lineurinos, I don't know if you have to be somewhere else. I'm not an urbanist, I'm not an architect. I know that right now there is a certain deficit in some very relevant trade marks in the urban area of Vigo. And you, who certainly knows a lot of Vigo people, and I'm sure the Cabral neighbors who accompany us also know that, you know, hundreds of people... there's a study done — it's true that it's a study and, therefore, through a sample — that speaks of 2 million annual displacements from Vigo's metropolitan area to a specific commercial brand in Coruña and Porto, in Porto-Braga. So we know what we're talking about. Yes, Ikea, exactly, Ikea. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's perfectly studied and, therefore, I don't know if it's 2,00,000, 1,800,000 or 2,00,000 displacements. So I refuse to shorten the economic and commercial development of the metropolitan area of Vigo. Of course the environmental protection of Mount Vigo, all. I repeat: short-circuit economic development, no. I don't know if it's worth what "in the whole revolution; out of the revolution, nothing," but the idea is that. Short-circuit economic development, no. By the way, there is support for trade associations at this centre; not all are. He's absolutely not contrasted, and there's a case... that of Palma I don't know. In the case of Zaragoza, as a result of the information I've been seeing, neither the impact — at least the impact that appears in the press — is so negative. It is also true that Zaragoza is an absolutely isolated city, let's say that in the midst of a demographic desert, with all due respect to the matter. And, therefore, I repeat again, I think it's appropriate more rigour. I don't like that word "indigenous," it seemed to me to go back to the 19th-century Belgian colonialism. I don't know what indigenous means. Natives like me a little bit more, because I really... And then, really, Mr. Bará, speaking of buying wills with great lies, I believe that in these times, with what is happening in this country, it is almost best not to talk much about it; almost not to talk about buying wills with great lies. We are going to vote against this initiative for two fundamental reasons: first, because it seems to me that a moratorium in Vigo Town Hall... you said here in the area, but what you put in the text is "in Vigo Town Hall." So see if they're going to do it in Mos, see if they're going to do it in Mos!... Of course, it's just that I'm a little worried about that. Therefore, a moratorium. [[Applause]] And why not Pontevedra, Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago, Lugo and Ourense?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u200	...why not? You too. And then, Mr Bará, there really are 2,800 to 2,900 mountain communities. Let a parliamentary group come here to ask for an explicit investigation of one, it seems to me, at least, questionable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u202	Thank you very much, President. I also want to welcome our guests today, who have been fighting for a long time on this subject. And, well, we're talking here about a macrocomplex of leisure, commercial, which is really a very ambiguous project, a project of which no one has concrete knowledge of absolutely nothing, beyond the advertising pamphlets. The proponent, Mr Bará, was already exposed to him at the beginning of his intervention. I live right now is a city saturated by shopping centers, present and future; many are already developed, others on paper, but that, if they were to start up today, they would have eight large shopping centers, which are not assumed. These projects, as Mr. Losada referred to in his speech, have a very clear example in the twin center of this one, of the same promoters, which is Port Venice, in the city of Zaragoza, where the impact —din — is not so important. The impact is as important as since it opened there are 1,200 places closed in downtown Zaragoza. If that's not important, I think it is. On the other hand, this macro-centre of leisure and more, is another major problem: supposes the problem that would constitute a barrier that would deter thousands of people from entering the city each year to access these businesses and businesses. We don't agree with that model; that model doesn't make sense. But I would also like to focus my speech — which we will be voting for today's proposal — on a detail that seems to us much more important in this area. Vigo is a city that has thousands of square meters of idle industrial floor. You're not doing a study, you're not really knowing how much industrial alone we have idle in Vigo and therefore there are many places, such as the Valadares polygon, that could welcome those multinational theories that want to settle in Vigo. I don't know. In the advertising pamphlet they name a lot of them, and I, by surveying with my contacts within them, see that half of them didn't have the intention or interest of coming to Vigo for now. So maybe the project is more bluffing than it looks. On the other hand, if we have that idle floor, why is it necessary to bind 300,000 square feet of the common mountain?, a question which we too are suspected of from the point that that landslide would almost all of the mountains in common with the parish. We don't understand that posture a little bit. It is clear that for us there is a somewhat dark form of action; there is a lack of transparency, let us say, by Eurofund and the Vigo Council on this subject. Meanwhile, here, as already mentioned, some have collected signatures in a trendy way to process an ILP that will possibly bring to this House. At that time, all groups must get wet; i.e., Cabral's neighbors have been wet, the main federations of Vigo traders have been wet, the BNG this time is on this same line, it's wet, we're wet against this, and the other groups are missing, one wet in the opposite direction and another we'll see what it does. We are therefore going to support this. We know that the main defense that we have to do in this area is to defend the forest crown for use that is truly what has to be that of these lands, and not subscribing it to a general interest and so on, because we don't think it's a way to guarantee the future and the viability of the projects that have to do with these lands. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u203	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u204	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, neighbors of Vigo and Cabral, welcome to the Galician Parliament. The truth is, Mr Bará, you have to apply your entire speech because, as Mr. Losada said, in the 2008 Municipal Management General Plan, who planned that Leirinos was a commercial area was the Galician Nationalist Block. It was a general plan in 2008 that voted for the Galego Nationalist Block, which voted for the Socialist Party and for what he voted against the People's Party in the municipal plenary. Then this plan went to Galician Union and was approved in Galician Union by a bipartisan government of the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party as well. Surely, besides, approved in a hurry and under the pressure of Vigo mayor Abel Caballero, because there were municipal elections. [[Murmurs.]] So he presented himself to the municipal elections with the approved General Plan, a general plan that brought the Supreme Court to a close. Therefore, the situation of Vigo now, the urban situation of Vigo now, is of absolute paralysis; of absolute paralysis by the carpets and the messes they have made the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Party, because we have to make a little history and know how urban development is at this time in Vigo and what future planning there can be in Vigo. You're here, in addition, giving by the way some things that are undetermined yet. Now we have to make a general plan. The Vigo municipal government has to decide and define what Vigo's future business will be and where to go, and it has to draw up a general municipal management plan. So we want to insist that the People's Party and the Government of Galicia, which was from the Bipartite... the People's Party had nothing to do with the implementation of the commercial area. If there wasn't a commercial area designed in 2008, in that general plan, there wouldn't be any business center planning proposals there. That's because in 2008 you approved a general plan with a trade area there, and I insist that the People's Party voted against it. Now we have to make a new general plan of municipal management, nine years later, and in addition, so that the city of Vigo doesn't stop, what this government is doing, and this Parliament is trying to put the tools needed so it won't be put down to the industry, so that they can generate jobs... of course, In Marea votes against the expansion of Citroën so that there can be concrete areas and they can be expanded and industry can be expanded, so if Ifevi can be expanded and many activities can be developed. But, I insist, a city like Vigo at the moment is completely, from an urban point of view, paralyzed, and not expected, no role moves and no intention to define, neither to delimit, nor to make and clarify the future trade, of course, because there is no need to open up a commercial area to close the shops in the center, because in Vigo there is a series of urban planning and also where the business future of the city goes. So since Parliament you can't enter as elephants into a casket and define Vigo's future trade, when, moreover, they have no representation in the municipal government, and they don't have representation precisely on some of the chances and jumbles of this style that I say the root of this general plan as well. [[Applause]] PSOE's not a stranger to this. The PSOE now has an absolute majority in Vigo and it has to define, I insist... Furthermore, today the Town Councillor of Vigo was the advisor who approved the General Plan that took the Supreme Court. So I'm asking the Mayor of Vigo and Mrs Caride to put on the batteries and work on urbanism in the city, because it's important for development and for the future, because we have to design the future. Here you put a number of possible shopping malls that can be done and that can be done in a place or somewhere else. Mr. Losada was already saying he doesn't have to be in Cabral. Why do you have to limit yourself and have a moratorium in Vigo and not in other areas or in a particular area? He's talking about things that are still to be decided; they're still to be defined. So, first of all, a general municipal planning plan is designed. What's wrong? That the General Plan has to deal with and they have to make decisions with a lot of people, that maybe it won't keep him in his chair and as an operator he thinks he is. You have to work, you have to get wet, you have to go down and you have to make a municipal management plan for Vigo, which is very necessary. Neither Parliament nor the Government of the Union nor the People's Party, nor the responsibilities that you have to have, which must, in this case, have the Socialist Party, which is what is governing in the city. And to the Galego Nationalist Block, I insist, I want to tell you that you don't want to do it from here, from Parliament -- because you can't do it from Vigo, because you don't have municipal representation -- the design of the city, which we know very well, perfectly, what we want and what we don't want. I insist, with regard to the mountain community, the truth is that in that case the community is an independent autonomous community, although grants are controlled, perfectly controlled. And, in addition, I would like to remember that it is already regulated from 2012, because the Galician Law 7/2012 establishes the obligation of communities to reinvest in the mountains at least 40% of the income they receive. And who had given many hills of Galicia to be as the mount of Cabral is! for they have to pass there to know how carefully that mountain is. So we, from an environmental point of view, have nothing to object to. I end by saying that the neighbors of Cabral, the neighbors of Vigo and the municipal government of Vigo will be those who decide and those who define Vigo's future trade, and you can't do it here because they believe that from the Galician Parliament you can have the power to do it. So let the mayor and the conceler lady of Urbanism lay the pillars and make a general plan as Vigo deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u206	We said that this debate would serve to portray each group, and what we saw is that the People's Party is going to be what through this proposal not of a popular initiative law, or that it will try to process this project through the new law that is being dealt with in Parliament, and that the PSOE — we have also made it clear — supports this project. I was a bit surprised by Mr. Losada's accuracy, which I saw a little excited in this debate. What I have to say to the representatives of the PSOE and the People's Party is that it has nothing to do with this project that was envisaged in the general plan of the year 2008, in which commercial soil was actually predicted, but it was public initiative. Nothing to do with this project, which responds to a clearly private interest, privatising and policing of the communal mountain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, Mr. Losada, I didn't say the purchase of land was illegal, I said it has to comply with the law, and the Mountain Law says it has to count — that purchase of land — with the authorization of the Galician Union. In this case, there was no authorization from the Galician Union. And you told me about that case, but you didn't tell me about the permutation of land, you didn't tell me about those illegal works that were paralyzed by the waters of Galicia about the river lagares. Well, it is clear that we have views and anti-thetical projects on the big commercial areas on this issue. The BNG has a model, the PSOE and the Popular Party have a completely different one. We want to bet on the proximity trade, local trade, which creates jobs and dynamizes urban centers. You bet on these macrocentres and on the desertification of urban centers, building large commercial macrocentres that have an environmental impact and that cause a real mess, a ruin of the landscape and territory. That's what you're supporting. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, the responsibilities of each person are clear: the responsibility of the Vigo Council, which has to support a new general plan, and the responsibility of the Board, which we propose to do two things — I don't know if Mrs. Paula Prado is nervous and means something — let's propose two things — they didn't talk about the two: we propose a sectoral plan of commercial equipment — I don't know if they have any problems because if you support this sectoral plan of commercial equipment — and, secondly, we propose a ten-year moratorium at shopping centres in Vigo. [[Protests.]] Or, if you like, we change Vigo's to Vigo's area, there's no problem. If we put the Vigo area in? Do you support PSOE and Popular Party? Is that how it is? We take him to the commission, we bring him back to the full... is Vigo's area worth it? Because there's no problem, we changed that, we supported a moratorium and we supported a sectoral business equipment plan. And the second proposal we make is that the Galician Union fulfil its control functions. We don't ask him to investigate the mountain community, because the judges are already doing it, the judges are already doing it. There are accusations from representatives of these mountain communities — you know well — that I believe they have some connection with this person. We call on the Council of Galicia to carry out its functions as the control of administration, economic management and the enforcement of the law by the mountain community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u207	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Losada, what do you want the word for? Sorry, quiet. Please be quiet. What do you want the word for, Mr. Losada?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u208	I wanted to know what the connection was, I understand that my, to the president of the community of mountains...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u209	He didn't mean you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u210	I understand. So I'd like to know what binding was.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u211	I understand you don't. No, I understand not; no, he didn't mean you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u212	Don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u213	No, and that's how you can corroborate it. He didn't mean you, no. It's closed. It wasn't you, so be quiet. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the establishment of a parliamentary study committee for the participatory elaboration of a proposal for a public transport plan in Galicia, as well as the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u214	No amendments were tabled. Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u215	Thank you. The truth is that the previous initiative has moved the milestones a little bit here, it's been very entertaining, because it looks like the government has become opposition, the government's opposition... so it's okay. We need to talk more about Vigo. Besides, the People's Party, by its tone of speech, seems to be giving good results that you are having in Vigo city and that you know better than anyone else the needs of Vigo citizens I think it's going well. [[Protests.]] Moreover, I was also pleased that I accused the BNG of coming here to do municipal politics, when we all know — that we have been here for years in Parliament — that the People's Party has never used this Parliament or the Galician Union to make local politics in Vigo. We all know that, sir. [[Applause]] It must be the persistence of the People's Party to come here to make municipal politics and reinforcement politics to the comrades and comrades who have there and those who must not go very well. And as much as they repeat a lie won't be true. I don't know if those who come here repeat Citroën's lie do it out of ignorance or know it and lie, but what Parliament approved here, with the vote against Alternative Left Galicia — when I was in Alternative Left Galicia — was not a solution for Citroën. No one opposed a solution for Citroën. A solution has been adopted for any municipality in Galicia, to be able to make the policy that really interests the People's Party, and the non-planning and constant gossip is that it has brought us the urban situation that we have in the municipalities in Galicia and that you are responsible for, which governed most of the time in this country. They're responsible for urban disaster. [[Applause]] And, therefore, with solutions to do that operation in Citroën, you went through the back door to favor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u216	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u217	...the municipalities. They can scream and yell whatever they want. The truth hangs, but I'm not going to shut up. They can take offense at what they want. They have a lot of time, lots of media to talk about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u218	Quiet, I ask you to listen. Excuse me, Mr. Sánchez, excuse me for a moment. Mr. Sánchez, excuse me for a second. Please, I beg you to keep silence and to listen to who is in the use of the word. And I beg you to focus on the matter. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u219	Catalonia and Zaragoza. How was that of Quevedo of: I should not shut up, as much as with the finger warnings or threats afraid? Or something like that, huh? Well, look, they're gonna have to hold on, because when you come here, you have to know what you're talking about, and you have to wait, when you answer it, knowing what you're talking about. And also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party — if they don't get so nervous, they'll still come with more people who can get nervous — they can follow, in public transport by road, opting to deny reality, because they don't recognize the mistakes, and they can ultimately choose to be affected by the mistake. They can, and will vote on the 41st and the 41st against all proposals brought by opposition groups to correct the mistakes you made in these years in this matter and continue with that story of the naked king, of when the courtiers said "what a beautiful suit of the king" and the king would go naked. Well, you, like courtiers, are also saying, "How nice is transport... Mr. Tellado, please, your role as pit bull of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u220	Mr Sánchez, do not go to the Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u221	...do it when he comes in front of the press, but let me explain some things to him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u222	Mr. Sánchez, continue and let me regulate the debate. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u223	We just passed an animal welfare protection law, don't worry. I'm respecting, I'm being much more respectful than you, who are still missing out on it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, courtesans, courtesans of the People's Party, may still say that this transport plan is very nice, but the king really goes naked. This first phase of the Transport Plan accumulates dozens of complaints and incidences, not minor complaints and incidences. As my colleague in the past said, Marcos Cal, the newspapers collect complaints in the Navy, Place, Road, Ferro, Cedera, Taboada, Monforte, Chantata, Sanxexo, Marín, Bueu, Allariz, Poor Trives, Salvaterra, The Porriño, Ponteareas, Salceda, Mondariz, Mondariz Balneario, Barbadás, La Cañiza, Coles, Covelo, The Snows, Melón and Ribadavia. Besides, we had access to complaints, and we had meetings with some council, like the council of Salceda, of Mos, of Porriño, who told us the real situation that you here never want to recognize. This, in addition, is the result of the continuous improvisation and the running forward that you've been doing with the Public Transport Plan for years. Since the Supreme Court in March 2016 annulled the February 2010 ruling, adopted by the Government of the People's Party, nullifying 129 concessions, its career has been ahead, and it has also shown that between 2010 and 2016 they have not planned and did not foresee what could happen if there was such a judgment in the face of a complaint by the National Competition Market Commission. You didn't do your homework, and the fact is it was a career: judgment in March 2016, Law of urgent measures of transport in July 2016. And since it was improvised, badly done, and it wasn't the work done, they had, in the 2017 Budget Accompanying Act, to complete the chauffada. And they said, "It's all right here. There is a plan for the public participation of the municipalities, local authorities, a four-sheet questionnaire, the same questionnaire for all municipalities, having 1,000 inhabitants or 10,000, which asks, for example, information about the problems of the current service, for important destinations for little or no work, indicate briefly which ones... Well, as it answers here a municipality: Vigo, Tui, Salvaterra, O Porriño and Ponteareas. He also asks about places and health centers where it will be necessary to strengthen the transport line: Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, Hospital Meixoeiro. This is the process of involving local entities. This is a process of public participation. This is the writing, with 300 signatures, of neighbors and neighbors of the municipality of Salceda de Caselas, denouncing the cut in frequency, denouncing hours of up to 3 or 4 hours without buses towards Vigo and without buses back from Vigo and denouncing irrational schedules, denouncing irrational lines. In Southern Place, the same; 269 neighbors and neighbors of Chantata; 850 signatures in Cañiza, protesting by frequency cuts; etc., etc., etc. This is the reality. What's going on? These complaints reach the Directorate-General for Mobility. And what does the General Mobility Authority do? She's overwhelmed, and she tells the municipalities she gives temporary authorization to agree with companies the lines, schedules, etc., etc.; it means as if there were no plans. Scheduled didn't work for anything. Provisional authorization to agree with the companies all; that is, what was worth the work you've done? What's it worth, if it's gonna start again from scratch? I mean, the Directorate General of Mobility is overwhelmed now, but he never had the capacity, because of lack of sufficient human resources and because in four years he had four general directors, which shows once again the constant improvisation of this government and the lack of ability to do anything that is planned with the minimum of rigour, that you have. So what we're thinking, if you're at least humble, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that they recognize the mistakes. The first phase has no remedy. Town Councils, neighbors and neighbors and businesses have to take care of themselves as they can, they can't count on you. That first phase has already been a real failure, chaos and disaster, as mayors of all political colors and neighbors and neighbors say, that all they want is a good service. But there is still an opportunity for a better transport plan to be approved in the summer of 2018 than will be approved if you continue to act as you are acting. All we ask of them is that they have that humility to recognize mistakes and act differently. No magic solution. The only solutions are to do what you haven't done: sit down and talk to each municipality, work with each educational community and kick the country to know the country and the needs of people. You need a lot of street work, you don't need a desk job and Google maps. No magic solutions, this job is in progress. It's a lot of work, we know, it's not easy, but it's going to lay the groundwork for not only the transport that was there, but it's getting better, and for both urban and rural areas to have a service for people who improve the conditions they currently have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u225	Well, I'll finish the story. You may choose and continue to say that the king has a very good look, but it will be that — if they keep saying that — they will be the courtiers of that story, and they won't exactly have the dignity of the child who screams: the king goes naked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u227	I think this is the seventh time we have discussed this issue, although there will be a lot of debates, especially because we are there fighting against a wall, against that front of the People's Party, which refuses to accept reality. We said from the very first moment — and I think all opposition groups have acknowledged it — that this is an extraordinarily complex matter and that making a public transport plan in Galicia has a huge difficulty; also because we have seen a situation with many shortcomings and many precariousnesses. We've seen an obsolete system, of what we have to say is that it has a lot of responsibility for the People's Party, because it's who's ruled the most time and who's been doing all those concessions over the decades, often customerly: you're doing, you're doing, you're doing, you're doing, and we're getting to where we're going. And also because the People's Party, after 2010, what made it hide the problem and deny reality, sweep beneath the carpet, in a flight forward that led to a real chaos in the Council itself, as demonstrated by the fact that they had four general directors of mobility almost in four years. Then, when the Supreme Court's judgment arrived in 2016, there was no more remedy than running, than going to jail, than trying to put patches, trying to put provisional situations and do experiments, and so we got to the situation we're in, that we don't have a plan. You sold as a great achievement that continued to have buses on August 7 and 8, but to us that, of course, is not worth it, we aspire to more. I think you, too, as rulers, must be more ambitious than buses on August 8th. You used this experiment to reduce costs, to reduce services. And in many respects — as has been demonstrated in the allegations and complaints that have been made in all parts of the country or in much of the country — even worsened what was before, and in addition to many mistakes, with this very poor work that we have already reported here by consulting companies, which have claimed EUR 800,000 for such insufficient work, with many irregularities and with many shortcomings, especially with deficiencies in participation and dialogue. We told him again, because there was no real dialogue, especially with the municipalities, that they know the country and the demands of the population and that they are now saying that there was no dialogue. There was a meeting, there was an inquiry, but there had to be later the presentation of these preliminary drafts and the debate in the neighborhoods with the municipalities. And when it was, for example, with the Infrastructure Advisor in the case of the County, it turns out that he met with mayors and mayors and then kept the demands in a drawer, he didn't take them into account. That's not dialogue; that's meeting, but it's not dialogue. The same for the ANPAs, who said they were going to see how the new system worked but that they didn't support it, that they didn't agree, because they have another model and another proposal. And all this in the midst of a scurantism and a concealment of the information about the bidding and the adjudications, which we manifested here again, because we ask for the documentation and we're still waiting for it to be provided. And the bidding companies also had a lot of difficulty accessing that documentation. In addition, we are seeing the breach of contracts and the non-compliance of the services offered. And you're not lending yourself one of the great news of this supposed new plan, which was the transport demand. Where's the transport on demand? When do you plan to implement this system? How will it be done? I don't know if they have any idea about it because we're not seeing it anywhere. Of course, it seems to us a huge delay, a backward and discriminatory system, that of the new integrated school transport system. It's no longer school transport, it's already integrated into regular transport lines. They are therefore taking the first steps towards the final disappearance of school transport, with all the problems of management and security that are being commented on in this regard and with the opinion — as I told them — against the ANPAs, who made public reports saying that they did not want that integrated transport system. And, of course, you presented this magic solution because you brought here the counsellor of Castile-Leon to say that they had 42,000 users of this new system integrated into four years. I don't know if it looks like a great result; to us it really looks very poor. And also because there was a system, which was Tes+bus, which could be improved and expanded in rural areas and which made sense, that was working well. There was no need to take this step to something that in practice would assume — as I said — the disappearance of school transport. We will therefore support this initiative. We think we have to do a critical analysis and review of this so-called first phase of what has been done in recent months. And, of course, we have to go to an ambitious proposal for a true plan that is a fruit of dialogue and participation in all sectors, which is a plan for the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u229	...for the mobility not only of road transport but also of all forms of mobility, also of rail transport, of nearby railways, also of rail transport and of sustainable and healthy natural mobility, which we have to bet on as a solution for the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u230	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Last September 15th culminated in the implementation of the first phase of the Galician Public Transport Plan at the beginning of the secondary school; a first phase of the plan without plan, without realizing a global design of public transport in Galicia. The Counsellor has preferred and decided to take the absurd path of indefinition, which I neither reject the lost rights of the Welsh people nor advance in the necessary planning of a global plan; a fearful one-person decision and would unite with negative consequences in the present and I fear that also in the future. A decision made, moreover, to face it from the worst predispositions, empty of humility and loaded with prepotence and sovereignty. A way of proceeding narrowly to a personal question on a subject or a fundamental issue, without participation — hence exclusive — without transparency — hence opaque —, without approach, allergic to contributions, without dialogue and against all, as has been demonstrated later and so have expressed. Finally, the Counsellor began this process with the worst attitudes: full of prejudices, more likely to confront it than to conclude and deliver to external insolvency assistances that have shown the lack of confidence in central and provincial services, of recognized effectiveness and commitment to transport for many years. He preferred an imposition of the plan to share it with the sectors involved. With this attitude, the Counsellor has set the whole transport sector against the plan. And it was found that its elaboration was an exclusive, non-participative process, with more monologues -- I'd say with only monologues -- in the place of dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, the material implementation of the first phase of the Transport Plan was possible only by the contributions of reality, of the pre-project phases and project made by those intentionally excluded in the preparation of the plan, excluding the provincial transport services, excluding the adjudicatories, the concessionaires, and excluding the councils. They transformed a theoretical plan of inapplicable dispatch into a possibility of real implementation, making it ridiculous the actors in the development of the plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to do some history so that it does not repeat itself in this House and in the Government itself. Mr. Feijóo's governments have had enough time to avoid this conflict that has harassed us in recent months, also and above all to achieve a model of public transport of people by road with the vocation to stay in time; a strategic project for Galicia. Ten years have passed since the knowledge of the European Regulation 3070/2007, which has conditioned the situation of regular public transport concessions; eight years have passed since its entry into force, in early December 2009; and seven years have passed since the illegal resolution — February 2010 — of the Directorate-General for Mobility. Lost years, sabbatical years of the People's Party's governments in transport; therefore lost opportunity. Eight years lost because it didn't advance in the model, because it didn't advance in the design, because no complicities were stirred. Eight years of passivity, disinterest, abandonment. It is a year to careers, unmanned, unbiased, without a defined model, improvised, bandages, which resulted in a plan without technical rigor, without economic rigor and without legal rigor, a plan of dispatch without contributions from the transport actors who are located on their own territory; a first phase of the plan where the conditions of the bonds that support the adjudication contracts made by the assistance and the actual exercise of transport, which began on the 15th as compared to routes, stops, schedules and coordination made by the adjudicators, have only notable coincidences in the category of anecdotes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u233	This plan is only recognisable by the modified, it does not look like the Government's proposal in the mouth of the Counsellor. I'm done, Mr. President. You have to react. In two years' time, the internity of recent adjudications ends, and in less than a year's time, the Public Transport Plan of Galicia must be ready. I wanted to point out the procedures and shortcomings of the elaboration of the first phase to bet on a proposal for participation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u235	...of dialogue, of evaluation of resources, of processing in this House as a strategic plan, which is what it is. The People's Government has to decide whether it wants a shared and dialoged model or continues with a unique, partisan, exclusive and monologous model. We will support the initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, apart from Vigo, the only municipalities who asked to use that Law of urgent measures were those who rule The Tides in Coruña and Santiago, to do the intermodals; they were the only ones who asked for that law. It won't be so silly and so silly if you've been asked! That's right, to do the intermodals, because for works you don't need that law because works don't do anything, as we already know. Thank you for encouraging them, because they are unable to manage them in Parliament. [[Applause]] But we're going to the subject of transport, which I'm interested in, not like you, which has spent half the time talking about other things. This plan is already being done in a participatory way — I know you don't like to hear it — but, in addition, with technical rigour and broad social participation. We understand that those conclusions or possible conclusions that you propose from a parliamentary committee would not arrive in time for the deadlines that we already see are used in this House in this kind of committee. But you contradict yourself. He was speaking in the GNP about creating that commission, but now in his comments he says that we are doing what he is already doing, which is kicking, talking to the municipalities and solving all the problems that are going to appear or the possible imbalances, because, of course, there is always some imbalance that can occur. But that's how it's done. And as I said, there are ten months left for this plan to be approved. We have to work and make it possible for all the collectives to arrive in a different way and in a more effective way. And with regard to this law, in addition, I believe that we have already discussed enough political principles; it has already been discussed here in the law, and several times. But when it comes to making the document that develops the plan document, which is a technical document, it will have to be the technicians — yes, with participation and dialogue of the agents involved — who respond to that technical solution that the plan has to give. So, what you really said — not what you said — raises your proposal not for law because, obviously, it is not a proper solution and therefore we cannot support it because if you are doing it — we understand it — in a more effective way, in constant participation with social agents. They don't like to hear it. I like to remind you that meetings have been held with the municipalities, with the Fegamp, with the ANPA, with the companies, with the unions... two follow-up committees, one interdepartmental and the other with the unions, are working, and there is no impediment — if necessary — to build up some multilateral among the agents involved. But they're responding and they're having the collectives who want to get involved. To the municipalities that have been involved from the beginning -- the municipalities that are providing ideas, solutions and asking for things -- they're responding quickly, and they're also giving solutions. Others do not want, and all they want is to destabilize, generate problems, instead of helping, rather than asking for concrete things, and they are, like you, putting sticks on the wheels, trying to prevent this plan from succeeding, despite the importance it has for the country — I remind them always —. You'd rather make that partisan policy than support and help to solve the problems. But they're solving these little incidences. These incidences — which are normal to appear — are having an answer on the street, with the people involved — as you asked — really, and not what you wrote in the non-law proposition. Of course, they don't like to hear it, Mr Bará, but, of course, after giving up 600 lines, of course it was important that we didn't have a single day without transportation in rural areas, of course it's important! And more when there was a strike where minimal services were not respected, and more when opposition groups were on anything else and not helping her on a strategic national subject. So — as I say — we believe that this parliamentary committee which proposes the non-law proposal is not the right solution at the moment. The Council will continue with dialogue, with participation, responding to the needs and demands of the various municipalities, which are the closest to citizens and these problems. All those who have come to the Council and ask for and transfer concrete things are responding to it, and we hope that it will continue in the coming months. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. You have the floor, by the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u239	A courtesan has just intervened to try to convince us that the king is going to dress and that he has a very nice dress. You're wrong, you're wrong, you're lying, and it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter! You do put partisan and electoral interests ahead of the general interest. You know everything you said here is a lie. You don't need to know reality, it doesn't matter. You come here from courtesan to say that the king will dress. Look, broad social participation. But I told you, four leaves to answer in five working days. Five working days had the municipalities to answer, they have 1,000 inhabitants, 10,000 or 20,000; they have qualified personnel or they don't. They never came together to talk to them, not even together, and much less one by one, which is what is needed for here. They were made from Google Maps. Then, apart from that, he began to say that those who file complaints — which, by the way, they don't answer —... Look, I'm going to read a paragraph that demonstrates — and it's not the only one, I don't have any more time — that you're not even answering. The Salceda de Caselas Town Hall, in the face of this situation of instability in public transport, is in contact with the company in order to be able to understand the future situation of transport, so the same company informs you that it is drafting a new proposal for timetables to extend the hourly coverage of buses. That's what they're doing in a multitude of municipalities; that's to say, they're looking for life between companies and municipalities. And usually what they're doing is going back to the previous situation, to the same lines they had before their occurrence. What's going to happen? Obviously, if they have given up before, there will come a moment when they also give up. And what it means is a failure of planning. You won't recognize him, but you will. And it's not just Salceda, it's Salceda, Mos, La Porriño, Mondariz, Mondariz-Balneario, Lugo Sur, Barbadás, La Cañiza... all these sites were collected from signatures and there were complaints from the municipalities that are not answered. They're not answered! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's a lie! They're not even answered because the General Directorate of Mobility is overwhelmed, because complaints come from all over the place: because they cut frequencies, because there's no information, because they've made irrational schedules, because there's fringes... and they didn't even say in the countryside. In the Salceda-Vigo line, one of the most populated areas of Galicia, if there were companies in that area that gave up is because there was a bad design, not because there are no conditions for profitable lines. And on those lines there are four-hour strips without travel, often. And look, the municipalities, those that I'm telling you to criminalize because they say they're putting sticks on the wheels... they're criminalizing participation. No, look, they made proposals that were the ones that had to sit down and listen, they made very reasonable proposals. I mean, proposals for circular lines with launchers to go to Vigo, schedules proposals, frequencies, common-sense questions, because mayors and mayors, who have to face up to their neighbours, do they play shame in front of their neighbours and do things with common sense, be they the party they are. And you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u241	...they follow the lie, the mistake and the total failure of a transport plan that will ultimately achieve the goal of dismantling transport in many parts of the country. In the end, they will achieve what the free market achieves, which transports in the metropolitan and rural areas is dismantled. So they'll continue with the indexes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u242	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u243	...that they have to depopulation and aging in rural areas and the country's imbalance. But if you have 41 Members enough, they don't want anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-09-26-DSPG040.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. We'll stop the session until the next day. Thank you all very much.
