ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate of the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, let me tell the House on Monday, July 2, 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1860-25-6-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: ‘Government plan for the Greek Defence Systems (ESA)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1854-25-2018 topical question of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Awarding of grace to criminal sentences in order to appoint or obtain permission to pursue a profession." 3. The 1884-26-2018 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Unfavourable developments regarding the Greek industry of Zacharis". 4. The 1853-25-2018 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the irreversible in the Armed Forces". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1861-25-2018 topical question by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An unjustified increase in objective values in Purple and Allied Volos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1855-25-2018 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need to restore injustice against the owners of the refugee camps, which are called on to pay exterminated URPHIA". 3. The 1830/19-6-2018 topical question by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Adjustment of the IC's obligations of nurses/parents and the rights stemming from them". 4. The 1805/12-2018 topical question by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Illustration image presents the General Hospital of Artas". 5. The 1800/12-2018 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christou Manta to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Global blood donor day and National Center for Blood." 6. The 1754/5-6-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The administrative segregation of the Dimotiko Hospital requires that it be shielded with personal and equipment". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1729/30-5-2018 topical question by Congressman I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forum capacity of the Greeks". 8. The 1753/5-6-2018 topical question by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Reimbursement of a sea front or a frontal strife'. 9. The 1810/13-6-2018 topical question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr Aristides Fokas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Dramatic toll increase". 10. The 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry". 11. The 1538/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 12. The 1539/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on "About the participation of bishop soldiers in a party course of the JRC". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 1518-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Independent MEP II Piraeus Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the problems of four million borrowers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 6010/308/16-2018 by the Member of Parliament's House of Representatives of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of: 'Extended cases of financial controls'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 5420/25/2018 by the Independent MEP Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Buy of ready-to-market weapon systems". 3. The question asked by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister of Health, dated 3195/5-2-2018, on "Following the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centres of the prefecture with medical staff". 4. The question and application under number 2925/172/25-1-2018 by Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health Questions and by Mr Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Lacks of medical staff in hospitals and health centres". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the debate of the first under number 1858-25-2018, a timely question from the New Democracy MP, Maximos Charakopoulos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Agreement on how to enter higher education due to a number of contradictory statements by the Government". The current question will be answered by the Minister of Education, Mr Constantine Gavroglou. Mr Harakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as the degrees of the pan-Hellenic examinations are announced today, I would like to congratulate the children who wrote well and wish to succeed in the schools they wish, so that they can end up offering their knowledge to the Greek society. But also those children who did not go well, I want to tell them not to be disappointed, to seek their next steps with coolness and determination. I insist that life is much more complex and with more choices than we are trying to twist it. Minister, my decision to present this question was dictated by a sense of responsibility primarily to the students and to the parents who compete with them in this attempt to introduce them into universities and also to teachers. Introductory examinations in higher education have always been a reference point for families, mainly because they identify many and the professional rehabilitation of children and thus define their entire lives. This fatality led to distortions, such as instructional schools, and to the deterioration of the teaching in high school that are not considered in the pan-Hellenics. But, generally speaking, pan-Hellenic exams are an imprecise mechanism for entering higher education, and this is really a great conquest of our society. We must therefore manage the question of the examinations with the necessary seriousness and responsibility. I regret, however, to note, Minister, that I do not want to use a heavier term - with which the government is dealing with the whole question. I have a large number of statements, which I shall make in the Minutes, both yours and the Prime Minister, in which time you abolish your examinations and when you return them. When the examinations are done twice a year and when the first of January will be optional. When the introduction will be done with Bakalorea and when all universities will be open for everyone. And finally, the examinations will remain, you said, for high-demand schools, like medical, legal and polytechnics. So, in fact, we will have two-speed universities, those of free access that are likely to have no authority, and the others with the sieve-sieve tests. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, I understand that the account of free access is particularly popular with families and children. But how responsible is he? It certainly sounds pleasant in the ears of tens of thousands of students and their parents. It is, however, criminal microparticipatory logic to define the country's educational policy. I would therefore agree that the educational system needs changes, but not fireworks without an integrated plan. Just come to the post of the children who a few days ago finished High School and don't know which system they're going to enter the universities. In conclusion, Mr Minister, is there a plan to change the way universities are introduced? Does it have the approval of the competent body of the Institute for Education Policy? If so, what is this and when will it apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u4	In your calm position, I think the word 'crime' was a discord that does not help either your arguments or one fundamental dialogue. Mr Harakopoulos, you have a very deep knowledge of these issues - and because of the responsibility you had in your party and in the House - and I would like to talk - and to discuss publicly two very serious things. The first is what problem we are going to solve, because if there is a disagreement on the solutions, we must see whether there is a disagreement on the problem, because we may not be viewed as the two pillars of problems that we are going to solve. So let's just start with it. Indeed, it is not just a conquest, as you said it is a conquest of society and it has also been done by previous governments, the examinations are inconsistent and we believe it in society and it is a very positive thing. But are they also pedagogical offers? Have we discussed whether this impeccable is also pedagogically correct? Because else it is inconsistent and more is whether this imprecise leads to pedagogical right choices. Do you know that only 30% of children go to their first ten choices? The rest put thirty-five options, fifty-two options. So one of the things we need - I think together we need to tend, is what system it will be able to increase the number of children who want to study what they want to study and not to throw them into irrelevant issues. The second issue which is also crucial - and in this has not been clearly put on your party - is this: are we a country without a third grade? Yes or no? We claim we're a country without a third grade. Third grade doesn't exist in education, there's no teaching. And that's what's wrong with the second grade. There's no social group in this that you say it's his fault. I'm sure it's not the teachers' fault. It's certain it's not the parents' fault. I'm sure it's not the students' fault. But what's going on? It is a system that, in time, has been so badly abused that, like cancerous cells, it multiplys and displaces healthy cells, which is what? It's exactly the Third High School. So we have to decide socially if we want to be a country that has a third grade or a country that doesn't have a third grade. We have to decide that we don't want graduation, but surely it can't be a school with that character. The third issue is this: Every bunch of children giving tests costs Greek families EUR 2.5 billion. That's for every batch. It is also a matter that we should, at least, put on the table. Next item. This system has made transgression - and I do not think it is the problem of schools - is a culture of misconduct, which has too many expressions and you know them, we simply do not want to open up all these issues socially - an organic part of public education. Is that possible? Is it possible for society to have such an intent and sense in an institution that is objectively undermining public education? And I insist that it's not just the institution of care. Of course, there are two more serious issues. The first is that as things have evolved, children do not learn. Children learn an algorithmic knowledge, that is to say they learn rules to pass the test. This is not a knowledge. This is a knowledge of techniques, with a culmination, of course, of the lessons of social and humanitarian education, which literally learn from outside. Takes "20" the one who doesn't forget a single word from which page etc. Of course there is something else very serious. When society has this approach and is not looking for a way out of this deadlock, then these children in these ages have a pressure that we think young people should not have.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u5	Minister, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u6	You're absolutely right and I'm sorry. You'll only give me a few seconds. I will answer my second question, but I would really like us to come to an understanding if you see that these are problems. If these are problems, then together we will see solutions or even disagree on solutions, but at least we will know what problems we agree on. Thank you and forgive me for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u8	Minister, I think that since your previous term of office as Chairman of the Committee on Morphotic Affairs and my previous status as New Democracy's manager on education issues, we have had the opportunity in the context of the exhaustive dialogue that has taken place in our committees, to put forward thoughts and proposals. I think that as far as the situation in high school is concerned, it is difficult to see that there is a serious issue which is mainly related to the third of high school, where it is essentially the way you described it. The question is beyond the description - because you are three and a half years of government - to see what we are doing. In your prototype you did not make us wiser on the basic question that we asked you. Let's hope you do it in your dentistry. I had no delusion that you would present us today with a specific roadmap of change, which is three and a half years ago, but which we have not seen in practice. I would, however, expect, Mr Minister, some self-criticism about mistakes and omissions that have taken place in this period, such as the bank of issues if it were correct or wrong to abolish, or to abolish the '10' basis for higher education. You have reminded us earlier of the discussions we have had in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. Do you remember the presidents of the TEIs, who spoke to us about the 'poolers' students in the technological educational establishments, because by abolishing the '10' base most people easily enter the higher education institutions, but their level, their knowledge did not respond to the level of the institution and eventually ended up being 'everyonething students'? Now with the free access that you promise of these low-demand schools, the situation will worsen, the situation will evolve and we will have this genocide, the illusion, the parents will believe that their children have succeeded in universities and that they have spent years of financial resources in this difficult economic situation that we are experiencing and the children never get a degree. Is that our design? Let's see the problem in the face. Mr President, Minister, today when the grades of the pan-Hellenic examinations are announced and thousands of families will prepare their children's suitcases to go abroad to study, I would like to say that I was yesterday with colleagues from Cyprus, together with other Members who are in our country for the annual general assembly of the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy, who told me, Minister, that in Cyprus the five are private. Cyprus is therefore the attraction of many thousands of students and Greeks, while, on the contrary, Greece continues to bleed into students, beyond the young scientists who go abroad and we bleed into financial resources. Instead of having a student and being a attraction pole, a training centre in Southeast Europe, and not only, we offer work to young doctors and scientists, we bring growth by recruiting new managers, we are the ones who are persecuting them. In Cyprus, you know, teachers from Greek public universities, who were here, of course, conquered private universities. I think that in the forthcoming Revision of the Constitution, you should not confine yourself to the debate that you opened on the separation of Church and State. We must see real problems, overcome ideologies and put the finger on the type of suns, and move on to the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Charakopoulos, it is what they say'strengthen with the engagement'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u11	So far you have not given us an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u12	So far, we have been discussing the question you raised with your question. The subject of private universities is an extremely complex subject. I don't want to get into any controversy with Cyprus. Cyprus is an independent state that does what it thinks as other European states do. But you also know very well that private universities are an institution that has not thrived at all in Europe. On the contrary, in Europe, public universities have many possibilities for managing funds not only through public accounting but also through a variety of ways, which also exists in Greece. However, let us not raise this issue, because I think we will be dealing with it in a sensitive way. I would like to state that, in fact, I am glad that we are in agreement with the problems. We agree on the globe of problems. In details we may not agree. You did indeed raise something I did not raise. The issue of students ponds. It is a very serious issue, which, in our opinion, comes from the fact that too many children go to study things that they do not know and because of this system simply go into a section without even knowing about it. Is that what we're talking about? We say that if we set up a school with the Third High School alive and pedagogically valid, then the dismissal will be what will play a role. So the reflection on the reform is not the system of introduction, as long as the system of high school prevalence takes place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u13	The theme bank office?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u14	Wait. There are infinite ways. The topic bank isn't a one-way street to get a discharge. To accept, however, that you and we must accept that the dismissal must have a value. And the value of the dismissal is not on the labour market. It's in the citizen's conscience. So the dismissal has to play a role. I'm not saying the exclusive role, but it has to play a role. The second is this: we have not talked about free access of the press to "whoever gets in wherever he wants". We have said of free access as a counterweight to this thing that is happening today. I challenge you to tell me where, who, including me, said they'd go without any examination at any degree for a degree. There's no such thing. In all parts of the world students enter either an introductory exam or an exam. And the dismissal, though, if you want to take, you have to run tests. The examinations are an organic element of the educational system for many decades today. Well, there's another test and another test in the center obviously. But no one says that you're going to school in the morning, you do what you want in your class and you're getting fired, etc. These are not schools and no one, neither from your side nor from our side, has ever defended that. So the counterweight is the counterweight to the present system. For us this counterweight is around the vending room. That's what we have to ensure, that you're obviously taking it with tests, and with your presence and your work, etc. We also need to ensure that this is sound and objective and that the whole society respects these procedures. The children who will enter, as we have said, when they get their immunity in June 2020, that is, the children who will be the third grade in September 2019, will enter with a system that we will announce towards the end of the month and which is primarily structured by what Glyceum is. But now it is also important for us and for us to make a call in society. The kids can't live with stress, how they get into college. Everything needs to be dismantled. Once they're disembarked, the system will be improved. If, however, parents, society, newspapers, we children themselves are around a field of gravity which at its core has been introduced, I do not think we can agree. Thank you, indeed, for giving me the opportunity to have this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. I would also like to inform you that my colleague, Mr Christos Dimas, seeks permission from his absence abroad - in accordance with Rule 76(3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure - following an invitation from the ELIAMEP to take part in the 'Mercator European Dialogue', which will take place in Brussels on Monday 9 July and on Tuesday 10 July 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Constantine Giulekas also seeks permission for his absence due to his transition to Northern Epirus, Albania and specifically to Argyrokastro and the Sarandas, from Saturday 30 June 2018 until Sunday 1 July 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u17	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a request for the next questions. We need to take care of the time. Under the Rules of Procedure of the House, the question was to be asked in eleven minutes, not more than twelve, thirteen, fourteen. Twenty-two minutes is an exaggeration. I say this because then the topical question is thirty-seven Members of the New Democracy, and I think we must all ensure that we have respect for the process. Next, the third under number 1846-22-2018, a top-level question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Destination of democratic representation of students in the EAP". Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in July 2017 the speaker tabled an amendment to the Ministry's leadership in a bill at the time of the Ministry's leadership. You have accepted it. On the basis of this amendment, it is incorporated into Law 4485/2017 and the state law becomes the possibility of being represented in the Steering Committee of the Hellenic Open University and of having a representative of the undergraduate students, a representative of the graduate students and a doctoral representative, with a right of speech - with only the right to speak - and without the right to vote, who will be elected on an annual basis and without the possibility of re-election. By a decision of the Board of Directors, all these actions should then be initiated, so that we can have the opportunity to have elections to represent the students in the Board of Directors. This thing has not happened until today when we are talking about it. It's been a year, Minister. As you know, there is an election in all the universities in the country. At the only university that they don't do is the Greek Open University. I would like you to tell me why from the day we tabled the amendment, which you accepted, the procedures for the representation of students have not gone ahead. A whole year has passed in a four-year-old - so to speak - government service remains 25% and you realize why this question is being asked today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u20	Mr Saridis, you do have a particular sensitivity to this issue and welcome it. But I think you and we should protect the university's self-interest. In other words, the students in their own procedures, which will be decided, should first proceed to elections. Because the Management Committee is obliged to accept the student's decision by any decision they make. Of course, we are in favour of the polls, as has been done in the May student elections, to show their representatives and to participate, as you said, a graduate, a graduate and a candidate with a right of speech in the Steering Committee. I understand that there is also a decision of the Management Committee that needs to be adopted. I have a letter from the President of the Management Committee saying that they will issue this decision, a technical decision. Above all, we should call upon students in their own procedures to proceed with the formation of their bodies and also to elect their representatives in the Management Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask you very much, if you have the opportunity, to submit to the minutes the letter from the President of the Management Committee in order to take account of the technical problems it is invoking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u23	Yeah, I'm filing it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u24	I'm staying at this stage and I'm not going to get into another logic. I'm going to stay in the fact that you have a letter like that. The students are listening to us right now. I want you to know that. I think you already know that. In order to start the procedures needed for them, it would be desirable for them to have and know the letter from the President of the Board of Directors. We need to see from now on what we can do, so that with the new academic year there is also the representation of students at the Greek Open University. I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u26	I've filed the letter. A small footnote to make which we both know about. It is a few things that one cannot intervene in legislation. That's one of them, too, because of the self-employed, and that's how it has to be. Not everything should be defined by the law. I am sure they will proceed with the definition and selection of representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Subsequently under number 1859/25-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Selective application of the law on experimental schools - Association of Experimental Municipal Schools with the Zannio Experimental Gymnasium of Piraeus". Mr Colleague, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this particular question I've submitted to you from February. And I do not come here again to say about the delay your Government shows in answering the current questions. The reason I had tabled it in good time, and I wanted this debate to take place, is to make time for the next school year, which at the moment, at the very moment we are discussing it, seems impossible. The reason I have tabled this question is to restore an injustice, an injustice that has been done in relation to students who are in Rallio Experimental Municipal School. As you well know, in Article 11 of Law4327/2015, where you amended Law 3966/2011, you say there is a possibility for students of experimental primary school to move to high school and high school in experimental schools. This applies to almost all experimental municipalities except for the Experimental Municipal School of Rallio, which is the only one. So you understand that here we are talking about a flagrant injustice which is being done to the detriment of pupils who are studying at this school and their parents. I would like an answer, Minister, and in addition to that answer, I would also like an immediate restoration of this injustice. I think it is our duty to be in a level playing field. That's what our Constitution imposes. I therefore consider injustice to the students of the Rallio Municipal School to be flagrant. While it is experimental, while they are able to continue in experimental high school and high school, as the law which you have submitted and even though the other pupils of experimental primary schools are given the opportunity, the children of Rallyio do not have that possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. At the moment, in order for those who are listening to us to understand what you are saying to us, there is a possibility of linking experimental grades to experimental high schools and high schools. What does that mean? This means that someone who is at the experimental primary school can go without other procedures, with a simple application in high school and high school. That's not fair. It's not fair because if, for example, we have a hundred children from primary school who want to go to high school and high school and high school, for example, they can absorb a hundred and twenty, the draw will only take place for twenty children. So the rest of the children in society are wrong. The right is for everyone to enter the legacy and the children who have finished the experimental elementary school. That's more democratic, that's more fair. Now, there's a connection between Marasolio and the First Experimental of Plaka. There's no one else. We want to see this and indeed accept that there is a delay in legislation. It is one thing that we want to think seriously, because we do not want the other children to be wrong and only to be privileged for one category of children, which happened to be closed down in the experimental municipality and to have a privileged access to another school, which is experimental, to the detriment of other children who would like to be involved in the legacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u32	Minister, with regard to the institution of standards and experimental schools, we do not need to say how important it is, we do not need to say about the educational work that is being done there, about the possibilities that it gives children and even teachers. Of course, there is one problem because on your day this intolerance to the institution and the meaning of excellence has arisen. That's another matter. But I will disprove you, Minister, because you told me only about Marasolio. With your law, the eighth Elementary School of the University of Patras has the same match as the Mixed Experimental School of the University of Patras, the high school, the two-seat Experimental Municipal School of the University of Patras with the Mixed Experimental School of the University of Patras, the High School and the Sixth Experimental Municipal School of the University of Thessaloniki, with the Experimental School of the University of Thessaloniki, high school. So it's not just Maraslio. You had filed a board of schools that were directly connected from primary school to high school. As you can see, only with what I told you, it turns out it's not just Maraslio. I accept that you have opened this dialogue and this debate. Is it unfair or is it not to apply to one school and not to apply to the other? I should like to tell you that Rallio Municipality is subject to the University of Athens, like Maraslios, so we cannot have two different measures and two different weights for the same subject, for the same subject. I told you that this offends equality between citizens, as is constitutionally guaranteed. You want to open this conversation? Should we say whether or not we should? Remove the law you brought in. You did this, Minister, your government. We didn't do it. You made a decision that there would be a successive link between experimental primary schools and experimental high schools. It cannot be applied for some schools and for others not to apply. You have the legislative initiative. You have to make a decision. Of course, the answer the CCP, which is responsible for these issues, to the Rallian Parents and Wardens Association, seems to degrade their intelligence. It cannot tell them that these are a wider policy which will be discussed and that there are various legislations that will come in the future and resolve the issue. Because you have brought four bills, Minister, and the issue has not been resolved. This is, unfortunately, the reality. So it's not just Maraslio. I also mentioned the other schools, which are entering this process. Please, we need a solution to this problem. I understand that it may not be major for you, but it's important for Piraeus, which has only one experimental municipality, and that's Rallion and has a model school, the Ionian School, where you enter with exams, as well as the Experimental of Zante, where you enter with a draw. I think these children aren't children of a lower God. You should make a decision or dismantle it all or apply it to all. So I ask today, Minister, for a commitment from you, a yes or no, whether you will abolish the procedure for the other schools, or whether you will extend it to the Rallio Experimental Elementary, which is entitled, under the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u34	First of all, we have to distinguish the standards from experimental.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u35	What I told you is experimental, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u36	Not in your question and in your position, you're confusing it a little bit. Other standards, other experimental ones. Secondly, there are about sixty such schools throughout Greece, they are about fifty schools. First of all, you know that this year Rallio has made no such request. All you're saying is in the air, because Rally didn't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u37	The Parents and Princess Association...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u38	No, leave the Parents and Wardens Association. There's an application procedure. Now you say that we did not say yes to Rallio, when Rallio itself has not applied. I don't get it, but it's okay. What I want to understand is the concept of justice that you are promoting. You're saying that the kids already in elementary school are right to rule out the rest. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u39	If it's true about someone else...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u40	Let me finish. I didn't interrupt you. I'm saying, right now, what does that mean? It means you need to take all the kids that's in elementary school. So you may not go to a draw of kids who want to go from other schools to experimental. This, as you can understand, has nothing to do with excellence. It undermines your own logic of excellence. I say, then, that we must legislate - and I agree with that - which is more fair than it is today. In this, indeed, we will move on. We're going to file a bill anyway. He has now gone to the Central Preparatory Committee for Ionian and Iannina. And I hope we can...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u41	Minister, an application has nonetheless made Rallio.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u42	He hasn't come to the Ministry. However, there is a procedure. The CCP doesn't tell us he's applied for either. I don't think you have any say either. At least, the services...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u43	I know he's done it. That's why I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u44	Good. Looks like he's lost somewhere in the middle. What can I tell you? However, let us distinguish this bureaucratic issue from the issue of substance which is a question of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. We move to the second with number 1803/12-2018, a topical question in the New Democracy Parliamentary State. Nikis Kerameos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "In the air the work of the Committee for the Study of Education's finances". Mrs Kyrame, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to quote for reasons of order that this question was first tabled as a simple question, nine months ago, in September 2017. Sadly, however, you never responded. Hence it has become a timely question, which we are discussing today. Minister, on February 10, 2017, almost a year and a half ago, the Prime Minister announced with shame the setting-up of a committee for the study of education's finances. In fact, in a festive, I would say, climate also took part in the inaugural meeting of this committee. The Committee was instructed, as a basic task, to compare the benefits and costs of Europe's educational systems and to take advantage of the findings as a tool for managing the educational needs of our country. You then called for the political consensus of the parties on the establishment of the committee and the New Democracy, as a responsible political force, consented willingly and indicated valid scientists, experts on the subject, without any hindrance. And if I remember correctly, I think all the opposition parties agreed but two. And you said, Minister, you yourself, that by June 2017, that a year ago, the first results of the committee's work would have been achieved, and that in three years' time the scissors would also be closed, at least as far as irrational expenditure is concerned. So I ask, since it has been a year since you had assessed the findings, at what stage is the work of the committee, what the next steps are, what is its planning and when it is expected that the work will be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, you see the questioners and we are much shorter on these questions than we were before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u49	"Treno" questions go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u50	Okay, you just fought us a little at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u51	But I was obliged to do so, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u52	Madam President, thank you for the question, because it gives me a chance to tell you what the committee has done so far. There's something in your position that doesn't apply. It is a comparison with what is spent in other countries of Europe. It wasn't our purpose, but we said that if we could study it, it would be very good to do so. After all, it is also in the OECD reports and we do not have to do an additional job. Look, we do have a lot of results, which result from the processing of data through some mathematical models. We've been simulating and printing in five thousand fifty-four preschool education units and four thousand two hundred eight primary school units. This has brought us very interesting results that have to do with what school means as a financial unit, not as a teaching unit. And there are also differences in costs, in terms of local society's requirements, in terms of logistics and so on. So we have completed the study of nine thousand two hundred sixty two school units across Greece. And the next step, which we have been starting a long time ago, is secondary education. What I want you to know now - and I am referring here to what Mrs Keramos said, that there was indeed an appeal made to parties and parties, in addition to two, they indicated experts - that we really respected this movement of parties and we have never called the colleagues who participated in this committee - let us say - representatives of the party or of the party that was present. And there is - I think - an excellent cooperation. But look at something that I think has benefited all of us: this is that these processes have been extremely useful in the discussions that we are having with the institutions. Because there has been a dimension in our negotiations, which was not based on serious and proper treatment. And I think that they too accepted the results of our work, and that is why the issues of education were very little affected by the negotiations. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Also - and this is important - these processes were very useful in the OECD report submitted to us in 2018. If you want, I can then tell you about it. However, I would like to say another thing: these processes have played a decisive role in the development plan that has been submitted and made public and, as I am sure you have seen, there is a clear agreement - that also means agreement with the institutions - to increase funding for education, but also for permanent appointments. I would like to tell you that these are few of the positive effects of these processes. As you know, the committee has a three-year horizon and we will also try to incorporate the elements of secondary education into the simulation we have done in order to reach an overall conclusion, which we will present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, I admit that I am surprised at your reply because you spoke about some of the findings which, firstly, have not been made public as findings - I did not know and believe me, I follow very closely the news of your ministry - and I think that, at least once the findings of primary school have been completed, these should be made public. I would ask you, on behalf of the New Democracy, to submit them to the public. Secondly, I am surprised that, as far as I know, this committee has met twice since the opening session was established. If my data are correct, he has met once in April 2017 and once in November 2017. In fact, it was to meet in December 2017 to discuss the findings of secondary. This sitting has been postponed. It's been seven months and he hasn't met again. So I wonder how they have done what you say, since the committee has only met twice. At this point, I would like to ask what programming is. Why was the December meeting postponed, which concerns precisely the findings, which you said earlier? When are the extra meetings to be held? Is the committee going to meet once or twice this year? Thirdly, I am astonished for another reason. A year and a half have become state law about five laws of the Ministry of Education. In these instruments, not only have we not seen these findings incorporated, but on the contrary. We have seen the General Accounting Office of the State constantly point out that the arrangements you bring are unaccountable, to point out that it is not in a position to calculate the cost, because precisely the Ministry has not provided any evidence. And, of course, you know that at this time a 2018 budget was passed, in which we did not understand that there is any concrete incorporation of the conclusions of this committee. I say this, firstly, because the Prime Minister at the committee's inaugural meeting said first of all that he does not speak of a wide consensus, which has close legs. So we would really like this to be a substantial consensus. Secondly, because it was committed to making use of the Commission's finding. I ask, Mr Minister, when will he use it? When will the vote of all the Legislative matter of the Ministry have been completed? When will you have brought other unspeakable arrangements to the vote? I think some answers are expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u56	You have a special attachment to procedural matters. I understand you're doing this, because you can't get into stuff. I'll get over it. I just want to tell you that the effective committees, as you know, do not meet in plenary session. They're meeting with working parties. This is a very basic principle if you want a committee to function. A committee with twenty-five members cannot function. It works once in a while, to discuss and validate, things that the working groups have. On the second point you raised, we want to go to a conclusion, which also has proposals. We have done the processing of data and believe me that the result of the good work that has been done is the special agreement that we have concluded with ELSTAT - ELSTAT does not conclude agreements, without considering that it has a serious interlocutor to it - precisely to help both to process these data. I would like to stress the word 'education', because in our country the big problem is not the evidence. It is their validity and, above all, their processing. I understand that the issue of political controversy is also being said, but you cannot say that the General Accounting Office is always backwards, etc. If you have any evidence, here's the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u57	"Referring" I said. I did not say'return'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u58	‘Refers’. You know, unadulterated can't pass through the House. You know that better than I do. It is therefore not'referred'. It means, if it's not, he'll return it or the ministry will get it back. There is no other parliamentary way of doing this. But look, do you remember in February the provision for compulsory pre-school education? You remember you hadn't voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u59	We had voted on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u60	'Presents' does not mean 'vote'. It means 'I raise my hand to the question who is present', but it does not mean 'I agree'. A provision in which you do not agree did not happen because we were caught by a mania saying: 'We are not making two-year-old pre-school education compulsory.' It is based on very specific costing and very specific programming, and that is exactly what will be unfolded in three years' time. ‘As you know, a hundred and eighty-four municipalities have already agreed, registrations are completed and it starts in September. The second: You know all the work we have in the reform plan for synergy between universities and TEI. It's synergies. It is wrong to say that TEIs are "universities" or are merged or abolished, etc. It is a complex reform plan, which has to do with this policy of synergies and at the same time the establishment of new sections. You think that's not based on some studies and that's how we do it, why are some people telling us to do it? It's not like that. So, the fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u61	Give them to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u62	Sure. Some of us have given you. It is simply then that you say 'you gave it to us late'. We only lose weight, apparently, but it can't be done. What I want to say to you is that discussions with the institutions, the 2015 OECD report, a dramatically different report from the OECD report of 2011, the discussions that are taking place on development with the specific formalities, the regulations on compulsory two-year pre-school education, the reform plan for higher education, all this is based on economic studies as well. The core of these economic processes is the specific committee, which I would like to thank publicly. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth under number 1752-5-6-2018 topical question of second-cycle Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Technical School of Business and Tourism”. Another outstanding situation of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is not discussed, after consultation of the Minister, Mr Constantine Gavroglou, with Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis. The second, with number 1845/21-6-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Extending the second phase of the expansion of the telecommunications distribution network Megalopolis Arcadias", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister, Alexandros Haritsis. The first question with number 4297/12-2018 question of the circle of petitions by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the effects of the measure on Greek exports, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Deputy Minister Alexandros Haritsis. The third, with number 1773/8-6-2018, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The government, for the sake of creditors, resurrects the drafted net of protecting the loss of interest on the debts of the overdue households?", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Stergiou Pitsirla, due to unsettled obligations. The fifth question, No. 1741/4-6-2018, topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of "According to the lawful authorisation of the Skouria Medal", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. George Stathakis, who is on a government mission abroad. The second question under number 6058-17-2018 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP for the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The PPC is threatening with power-driven TWGs - at risk for crops", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr.George Stathakis, who is on a government mission abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The Question No 19/13/2-2018 by the Members of the New Democracy and the Members of Parliament will be debated. Georgiou Georgiou Georgianou, Ioannis Andrianou, Ioannis Kefaloniaannis, Maria Antonios, Olga Kefalohiannis, Charalambos Athanasios, Savva Anastasiadis, Helena Raptis, Emmanuel (Manu) Konsolas, Theodoras (Dorah) Bakoyannis, Constantinos Skreka, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, Spyrionos - Adonodos Georgiadis, Konstantinos Javaras, Konstantinos Vlasi, Aikaterini Markos, Georgios Karasmakou, Mavrou (Maurou), Theodos Fortsakakis - Kanthiou, Aristoulou Kyriou, Vasssilios Kyriou, Kyrikourios Kossiouloukossiou, M. The first Member of Parliament has the floor, Mr George Georgantas, for ten minutes. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, thank you very much. I think that today will be an opportunity, with the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, to answer very serious questions and issues that have arisen in the process of selecting administrative and sectoral secretaries and not just. Because, Minister, at some point, lies are ending and phrases need to be replaced by concrete arguments and specific answers on specific issues. A word about n.4369/2016. The famous law of SYRIZA - ANEL on the collection of public administration had two elements: the one that all more general and administrative secretaries, as well as the presidents of agencies, the presidents of administrative boards of hospitals, the legal persons of public law, the legal persons of private law, had to be chosen by the Register of Officials of the State, in which, of course, they had the right to participate. When did this start to apply? According to the Act, the registry was supposed to function as of the summer of 2016. Started in autumn 2016. What does that mean to a well-meaning citizen? That since the autumn of 2016, any post that is vaccinated by the old, the ones I mentioned above, the legal persons in particular, should be covered by the selection procedure by the State Staff Register. Observation first and challenge. Minister, since the register is running, from September 2016 until today, when we are going to complete two years, tell me whether you have announced any position in the relevant article of Law4369 from this procedure. So, in order for people to understand the hospital managers, for example, or any other place you have been proclaiming it through the State Executive Registry, or have you chosen to put some people with knowledge and experience in the vulcanizers? The law has not been implemented until now. I want one case, for whichever position, which is at least tens of those that have been covered in this period - I cannot know them - you have used the law. This to understand your hypocrisy on n.4369/2016. Secondly, this law provided for something specific at the end. It's a story all about colonization. The final choice between the three most dominant is made by the Minister. The Minister shall select the general and sectoral secretary. He's not picking the AAP. Secondly, it's not the ASAP that makes the choice. It's a committee that works at the ADP. But as far as this nine-member committee is concerned, three members are from the AACC and the other six, some are either directly or indirectly dependent on the government. But what was the scandal we're talking about today? The notices. The law did not, of course, provide for a principle which, in a uniform and homogeneous way, will take off the notices, which are necessary for such high positions, the general features, the qualifications that one must have to have in order to take up a Secretary-General in a ministry. It didn't do a third beginning for all the ministries. He did it every ministry for himself. When each Department does it, then who does it? Not the Minister, obviously, but his general secretary. The Secretary General of the Ministry made the notice. But do you know what's nice? That the Secretary-General himself in too many cases - and I have the names - was also a candidate. In other words, he did the proclamation, but he was not forbidden to be a candidate either himself or to another ministry, where he was consulted with the secretary of the other ministry, to photograph the positions. And I have these cases, many such cases that I want answers for. So the secretary made the proclamation in which he himself participated. But that's not enough for them. They had to make sure that the three most dominant ones had to go. What else did they do? They tried to work on the SAAP. They tried - and to a certain extent they achieved with the pressures they exerted - and took from the AACC - if possible! - the Ministers - at least four Ministers - the copies of the dossiers of all candidates. So the ministry secretary wanted to know and who else are candidates. In my question to Mrs Gerovali on this matter, unfortunately, she did not reply to me and, of course, I had to go to the SAAP. It was unpleasant for me to go to the ADP because all the political forces have made sure that the ADP is kept out of this dispute in the past few years. But I went and you know what the S.H.I.E.L.D. said? I'll testify for the Minutes. Firstly, that he sent an answer, based on my question to Mrs Gerovas, in which he says that, at the request of the ministers, he sent the files to four Ministries for all the candidates and to all the other Ministries simply the names of the candidates. And that's a violation. Mrs. Gerovas, that answer kept her in her drawer. I had to go get her. And I ask you: is this foreseen by the procedure? Doesn't she make a diabolizer? Doesn't she make her a fussy? Does it not raise personal data issues to circulate the figures of candidates to the Ministries? And who are the four ministers? Let's hear it today. He's not answering that. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the minutes the above-mentioned answer, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the technical assistance from France comes, and I find it unpleasant to say that this procedure is the 'Waterlo' of Greek cooperation on the matter of public administration, and says: 'We have identified some failures that were in existence and because we have identified them, we have corrected them in twenty-two notices'. Do you know what I'm going to show you now, ladies and gentlemen? Two notices that haven't been cancelled. It is not within these twenty-two, which was said yesterday by the "THEW OF THE CONSTITUTION". I will submit yesterday's 'SUBJUSTMENTS' for the minutes. [[At this point, the Member Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These two, then, good notices, which must go ahead, are two notices, one in the necessary qualifications - to the necessary, I add it - saying: "By exercising the role of a category of special post I grade for one year in the public, five years of work experience in the public or private sector, related to the tasks of post, five years of legal activity, with experience in matters of public law". All the above: the special position, experience in a special position, which is the position of the Secretary-General, the work experience and the exercise of a lawyer - all of this - must be cumulative. Do you know what position we are talking about, where a five-year lawyer is required, in relation to public law? We are talking about the position of the administrative secretary of the Ministry of Tourism. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. It's not to be cancelled. It was considered a very good proclamation, which must go ahead. And it has to go on, because on the issue of English, you know, you understand that we are talking about Secretary of Tourism and we would like good English knowledge, it says "just knowledge of English". [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the minutes the above-mentioned statement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Can I tell you another nice proclamation, which isn't in the ones that are being reopened? The other very nice notice is for the Administrative Secretary of the General Secretariat of Sports. So in this very nice position it has the word 'at least' three times. You know, "at least" limits, takes you where he wants you. "Two foreign languages, of which at least one is from the European Union" - the other may be from elsewhere, for example - "work experience of at least 10 years in the public or private sectors and the exercise of responsibility in the public or private sector for at least thirty months". I mean, only whoever's a secretary for thirty months is entitled to apply. This very nice notice has not been cancelled, it is not the ones that need to be reopened. The Greek-French alliance - I do not know what is being served there, but to tell the truth - did not cancel it. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the minutes the above-mentioned statement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Can I also tell you the government's official excuse for reopening? "We came because there was a failure in experience. There was a limitation, a minimum of time, a decade, and good employees, who had eight - nine years of experience, could not participate in the process. So we have opened up the experience or pre-service to the positions of responsibility from one to twenty years." False! I have these, which were finally annulled and on many of them there was no question of experience. The Minister must tell us exactly what that is, which led to the twenty-two cancellations. Because it wasn't the subject of experience. To know the Minutes from this committee of experts, to know exactly what happened. So the Minister has to tell us exactly what the evidence is, which has led to the cancellation of the twenty-two recruitments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by taking a minute from my dentistry. What about the other notices, which are clearly 'photographics' and the Minister does not hear? What about the four ministers who took all the candidates' data and in a diabetic way are in their offices and affect the procedure? To tell us all the issues that arise, with the leaking of personal data and the elements of a competition, for which no Minister had any reason, to have the information in his office and finally to tell us how to proceed. Only the cancellation of all this procedure can restore the sense of law which must be available to all the candidates for these posts. I have a lot more to say in dentistry. I hope that these questions, which I have asked very often, through the parliamentary route, will be answered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor as a second questioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, first of all, the questions raised by Mr Georgios, I hope you will respond with courage. Who are the ministers who illegally took the candidates' files from the ADP? In order to be informed, these ministers have violated the personal data law, among others, with criminals of a malicious nature and, of course, will be controlled in the future because they have violated all the concepts of State legitimacy. I would ask the Minister very much to announce the names of the four ministers who illegally took the candidates' files and not to have to start looking back to the next House for who they are. They'll account for where they have to. Observation 2: SYRIZA says he'll do the state's colonization. Madam Minister, that's not what my son, who's four years old, doesn't believe. You have exceeded all the previous records in three years, not of the 'holy' prior governments, but of the 'client' former governments. We "bad" and I as a "bad" Minister of Health, an employee of vulcanizers, did not run a hospital. Your government did. And yesterday, the famous German newspaper "FAZ" had a series of things that accuses SYRIZA of pretending to be a reformer and mocking German taxpayers. Observation third, so that we are all informed and I do it from the Step of the House so that I do not have any misunderstandings with anyone in the future: we do not recognise this process. Those who are selected in this process must know that the next government will abolish these positions and start a transparent process from the start. It will be done by law, it is not in the Constitution, it is fine that the next Parliament can do so. But listen, because this can be done by George Georganta, in cooperation with European players too. I have no doubt about that. That's all the chariots that make them not to do any of them? That's all he's doing to them. Whatever they want, he says to them. They shouldn't do him any favours, too? What are you trying to do and you think we're blind and we don't see it? Seeing the polls that you will suffer from a crash in the next election, you are methodically going to leave all Ministries with General Secretaries, to control the Ministries and prevent the implementation of the next government’s political plan and to create daily problems that the next government will load. That's all your goal, it's no more, the people kicking you out of power, but you stay. And now you think that we don't see that. It has not been understood by any of us that taking part in a process, the one who proclaims the procedure automatically makes the procedure questionable. Finally to choose between the three who will become a secretary-general would mean, if we wanted to recognise such a process - and to hear it, and our friends in the troika who do the wrong eyes - that would mean that I, Adonis Georgiadis, would trust Olga Gerovali that the choice he makes between the three is remarkable. I have no confidence in you, just like you don't have in me. No objections. But as you don't have me, and I didn't put my own secretary-general on you leaving, so I don't have you, I won't accept your own secretary-general. I'm saying this so you don't fool us. So those who are now running candidacy know that we do not recognise this. The procedure will be cancelled and these general secretaries will be fired. It's over and out. Only if it's done from the beginning right. What's right? That the Minister will have no reason to choose, zero. That the whole procedure will be done by A.S.S.A. That the whole process will be transparent. That no one's getting any candidate's files. That the criteria will be common to all the general secretaries so that anyone who wants to run, and of course, will finish the tricks. The reference to two languages, at least one of the European Union, is because half of them have studied in Russia by their communist youth. And they want all those who were in Moscow universities on Soviet Union to have the right to enter to become general secretaries. It's so photographic. So, concentrating on not to abuse the time, this process as you do, is appropriate to SYRIZA. I just want to say by closing down, ladies and gentlemen, and listen to the Greek people what we are talking about. In the 2015 elections when Mr. Tsipras was still spreading the idea that you are the new and you will fight the old, and all the hair of the pots you were saying, he interviewed a journalist and there he asked if he was going to abolish post-paid employees. Mr. Tsipras - look at the YouTube video, he has a million views - with a big tomb explains why post-mortem officials are bad and he as Prime Minister will abolish post-mortem officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You know he didn't dismantle post-convicted employees, obviously. But that's not the nice thing. The nice thing is that a postman at the Maximos Mansion has been appointed the specific journalist who asks this question. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You call this a colonization of the state, and the troika is giving you it. Because the scorpion, because the immigration has exchanges from the troika. That's not what you're selling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, with your permission I would also like to use the time of my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, the last days of the 'first time left' lay within the general decline and universal social deception. It's a regime that ends as he deserves, in the mock. Every communication show that sets up ends in a comeco-tragic fiasco. Now no one will hesitate to shout out loud what we have from the very beginning said the king is Godless. All the majestic lies, the pompous promises collapsed. Only unsatisfactory thirst for power is left, for the gower and for his good, and that is why you give the land and water of the country to anyone who asks for it. The indignant squares are now playing the so - called realists with those who first exulted to stay a little longer in the dream they live for everyone else, but it has become a nightmare. Power partners don't account for anything in front of the chair. They proceed to a nationally harmful agreement, in the absence of the Greek Parliament, in the interpretation of the Greek people who baptize it and succeed from above and blame citizens who react as far-right and fascists. The same ones who covered, if they did not participate in pre-conflicts and all kinds of ugliness, as opposition. And when they see the dark, when their society turns its back, when the ultra-peripheral government partner loses the eggs and baskets and realizes that he never sees the House again with the chalk, unless you adopt it in the State, they draw up scientific fantasy scenarios, such as the ones about apostasy and overthrowing of the civilization and all the other things that were humiliated the day before by the lips of people who would expect at least to respect the institutions they represent. But their own shooters, the "baby that is squeezing" told us by Mr. Toskas, Ruvikon's famous collectiveness and took responsibility for the invasion of Mr. Katsiki's office. Such disgracefulness, children! At the same time, of course, the attempt to find holes to permanently pierce the SYRIZA executives, such as the proclaimed notices on the positions of administrative secretaries and directors-general at the Ministries. Such a photo orchestra of "the next" recruitment has not been eradicated. However, comrades took us and the porcupines and sent the government that one out of three positions is not in line with an objective classification framework. As you know, however, the government has allergy to what is related to objectivity and merit. This applies to ‘the purpose justifies the means’. Ladies and gentlemen, what rages are included in the conditions of these notices have no precedent and have been mentioned by our first rapporteur. It really needs more courage to put a government as obvious photographic terms as possible to understand the positions of its own people, such as for the post of director of the Ministry of Health. The candidate must have a good knowledge of the European Union's foreign language, but the assistant or the Ministry of Economy must not retire in the next eight years when the choice is made for a four-year term. However, qualified and experienced executives are excluded. Or the unbelievable, for the post of administrative secretary at the Ministry of Tourism to require simple English language knowledge, but to have five years of law in matters of public law. That's a joke. It would be preferable to write directly the name of your chosen one. In most cases it is currently the appointed secretaries and directors, since the qualifications include the time experience, although it, depending on the chosen ones, starts from twenty years, such as the Secretary-General for Strategic and Private Investments, which must have twenty years of professional experience, without mentioning the private sector, obviously because the current Secretary-General has only worked in the public sector. But the Secretary-General must have a twenty-year administrative experience, but certainly ten years in the private sector, so that he does not claim the position of a minister. In the case of, of course, the Director-General for Sport, the experience of thirty months is sufficient, in other words, as the current secretary had when the post was announced. One would rightly expect that in a country where doctors were found, the possession of a doctoral qualification or at least a postgraduate degree would be a prerequisite for candidacy. Come on, though, that your people in many cases do not have them! Cherry in the cake of this misery is the mission at the ministerial offices of the list of candidates' curriculum curriculum, in case there's a mistake! Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, the need for a shepherd, said that these twenty-two positions would be re-opened, obviously under the brunt of the Commission and the partners. But that does not solve the problem, Minister. And with this government the problem will only grow, because in reality you are the expressions of the client state, you represent this iso-popular mentality of anxiety. You are constantly proving it, as you have done in education with the abolition of boards at the IOIs, by expelling prominent teachers from abroad, as you did with the dramatic downgrading of the role of school advisors and the attempt to mutilate the administration of education by party officials, even with anti-constitutional selection procedures. In addition, you are the representatives of a superfoodstuff prison, the one who loads public services with overnumbers of staff, while others, socially necessary, are planting. In your logic, however, in your hierarchy, the Karanikas are ahead of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government has measured the livelihood. This has already occurred in the consciousness of the vast majority of society and is confirmed in all measurements of public opinion. The only service that this government really has to offer home is the election notice. As much as it tries with the divisive rhetoric, public administration interventions or taxis to gain the lost trust of the Greeks, it will fail. The longer she stays, the more deafening her fall will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I think that there has been a great deal of strenuously and with sufficient documentation that the recruitment of the secretaries to the Ministry by Mrs Gerovas is absolutely photographic and on the basis of party criteria. But that's not just what Mrs. Gerovali does. This is a government practice that other ministers are doing, to the extent that it corresponds to the government. I, as you know, monitor the Minister, Mr Pappas, that, for example, this ministry is photographic on its own. It was created with three objectives: One was to remove Mr. Papa from the fiasco of the anti-constitutional law on television licences. I'll come back to this. Secondly, it was to fulfil a Memorandum of Understanding that the digital strategy was to be implemented in the country, which is not the case. And the third goal was to give him the propaganda tools, such as the Athenian News Agency, such as the ERT. That is why we need a separate meeting, and I will not be able to include it today. So this ministry and organogram are so daring that it does not serve digital policy and strategy, but it does not serve anything. Hence, it has produced zero projects to date, zero euros on the market, zero projects. The projects which have been awarded are projects financed by the Public Investment Programme. Following this, the Ministry was commissioned, after a year that took place, with secretaries where the notices were photographic in another way. How do you mean? There was a wide range of criteria. You could have any degree you want to be a digital policy secretary, for example. However, you had to have general knowledge of the subject without specifying the criteria for such knowledge. It was seconded by secondment which was placed in positions of responsibility, without specific and objective criteria. Anyone who worked inside and had a role, reason, qualifications, independence, such as the following press, for example, were completely deported. And, of course, with the practices of 'Mavroyalourou', in his own constituency, Mr. Papapas has been hijacked, outside the SAP, to the ELTA, which has been denounced by the post office workers. Also, institutions, such as the famous Greek NASA, were founded, which I do not need to comment on how much it is just a "better". Mr. Krimizis has said so, and he has spoken of his decorative role as the subordinate of Mr. Maglara, who has anointed "space bag" by Mr. Pappas. And at the moment it begins with a new composition, without the Minister giving us the answers to Mr Krimizis's accusation, entitled 'follow the money'. In any case, it is clear that the administration is being dealt with in the Ministries and the object as a formidable party. Mrs Gerovasili and Mr. Pappas, for example, recently, a few days ago, with an amendment to the House, changed the way in which the board of the Information Society is appointed. They shared it with each other. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. Of course, I note that in this case Mr. Pappas does not manage the Information Society. They have given it to GDR, the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. But as far as the positions of the board of directors are concerned, they found them among themselves on how to share them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this public administration project is part of a broader plan. It's a project that our first comrade, Mrs. Betty Baziana, revealed in a way. He told us the problem is they've taken the government but not the power. Now, then, you're trying with this plan to get power, the party mechanism. But now you're panicked. Now that you see in the polls this big difference and see that you lose the government, you're trying to drug the field for the next day to keep some power in your hands. In other words, you tell us in your way that you can be sure that you will not govern, because we will control the party mechanism. And you don't just do it, you do it in everything. You do it in the electoral law with the simple analogue. You do it in Local Government with "Klisthenes". You do it in the economy by binding the economy with surpluses, by measures, by mortgageing our property. You are doing so in foreign policy with this nationally harmful agreement on scaffolding. You do it playing games with constitutional review. And of course, you do so with the ongoing effort to control and terrorize the media. And I would like Mrs Gerovassilis to be present, because today she represents the government for the threats that have been put off today and which are brought to the attention of the public prosecutors on the issue of Ruvikon and SKAI. And I close, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - on the subject of SMEs. Yesterday, I read one supposedly a personal tone posted by Mr. Papapas, who is applauding and celebrating that his legitimacy has been restored to the media by drinking coffee in Aegli Zapatiou. Mr Papapas, where he drinks coffee in Aegli Zapiriou - he wrote it on Facebook, I did not write it - let him remember the political crusade with the unconstitutionality of St.E., let him remember Mr. Kalogrica's pastures, let him remember that this step was moving the Florence study saying that they did not fit over four licenses in the spectrum, which were seven and which were now six. Let all this be remembered by Mr. Pappas. But above all, when he participates in the plan 'and win, you will not be ruling' - which I assure you will fall into the void - let him remember there in Anglia that as long as you have the government and the power, you have the greed. But when you lose it, there's a time of accountability, and I mean it's coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take my dentistry time as well. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, today we are discussing an issue that directly concerns the quality of our democracy. Photographic proclamations in the public office are now almost daily and reveal in the most resounding and unequivocal way the government's intention to set up a party state. In fact, following the publication of the results of the European Commission's compliance report, which took the view that twenty-two Secretary-General's declarations of positions were problematic, confirming the complaints we made several times, New Democracy, Mr Georgios, the Minister admitted the need to reopen the twenty-two posts. But, as Mr Georgiodas said a moment ago, two additional posts were not reopened and this is the Secretary-General of Tourism, which, if possible, could not have an excellent knowledge of English or the qualifications mentioned by Mr Georgiodas, and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Sport, which is also photographically mentioned in the languages, the European and the non-European obviously Russian. Because the current secretary obviously knows the Russian because he studied the former Soviet Union. And of course we have the specific thirty months of pre-service, that is, precisely in the measures of the current Secretary-General. I think that is what concerns the Greek people, and they must concern you too, because this practice seems to me to be inappropriate in response to those children who leave, scientists with Brain Drain on a daily basis. Today, we have seen in "Kathimerini" evidence that the flow of this spiritual scientific wealth of the country continues with flows on an annual basis of fifty thousand. So, seeing these children with their qualifications, they are certainly disappointed and they really aren't worth it, Minister. The government's efforts to create a party state with the notices of the administrative secretaries and directors-general were therefore quite obvious. What you've done is the definition of the photographic proclamation. What happened in practice? For each position you looked at his CV already serving your political executive and then created the criteria on this CV. But you define as a prerequisite the excellent knowledge of a foreign language, elsewhere simply a good knowledge of a foreign language. The mission was illegally sent to the office on the candidate's list. But you're asking for a foreign language and two other. Other than within the European Union and elsewhere, as I said before in the case of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Sport. You are, of course, doing the same with working time, as I mentioned a specific example for thirty months and as has been mentioned by previous speakers. As if this were not enough, you systematically delay issuing notices, and that is not only to give the already serving political officials the necessary experience, but also for another wickeder reason. Since the terms of the new officials are of a fixed duration, you want them to start as close as possible to the national elections so that you undermine the work of the next government. We see the same thing you do in education. We saw it in INEDIBIM, where the Minister of Education at the time quickly served the director of the political office by putting him at the post of Director-General of Sivitanida, which was deemed to be non-legal by the Court of Auditors as he did not cover the formal qualifications - take care - of the foreign language. And then what? It was therefore placed in the Bureau as President of INEDIAM by a procedure that eliminates the condition of foreign language. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I have also taken the speaking time of my dentistry. So we have seen it through the completely unacceptable selection procedures of education managers. Instead of starting the selection options from the top, i.e. from the regional directors, as reasonable and as mandatory by the European Commission from December 2018 for the rest of the administration, you appointed presidents of the selection boards to the regional directors, who are part-appointed executives, who have excluded them from the evaluation by characterising them even as poster. And you told us that these party appointed, the posters, the unevaluated, will now judge objectively and objectively select the other members of education. In fact, even though in the case of administrative secretaries and directors, you are a subsidy to already staff in education, you are excluding today's school advisors only because they have supported the institution of the evaluation of teachers. Two meters and two weights that clearly reveal your real intentions. We have seen the same thing - to mention another example - in the field of rural development. It is stopped by the commander of EFKA - obviously, you considered that he did not do his job well -, EFKA is still headless to date, but this former commander of the EFKA is taking over deputy commander at the "ELGO - DIMITRA". If this isn't proof of partyism and Paleocracy, then I don't know what it is. So the questions that arise are clear: why is the notices of administrative and other secretaries so differentiated? Why have you been so late in issuing notices? Why, since this process is aimed at depopulation, did you not let the AACC define the selection criteria in an objective and inconsistent way and choose among the candidates, but did you choose such a perforated procedure, with the Minister, in fact, choosing at the end between the list of - supposedly - three more predominant ones? Why, finally, did you not ensure that those who hold these positions today do not participate in the procedure, but did you, on the contrary, bring two months ago an amendment to this House? We therefore call on you to give a clear and convincing explanation. And, of course, we urgently invite you to revise the micro-party objective of the volatility of the state, which clearly does not serve neither our public interest nor our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Christos Bukouros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I am going to compress the vocabulary with my denology. Minister, if the two notices referred to by our department, Mr Georgantas, which is the epitome of the photograph, were not cancelled, I wonder what terms were included in the twenty-two notices, which were cancelled. Obviously, they would determine the level and weight of candidates. But you know that there is a law, even incomplete, of Law No.4369/2016 and that it does not apply, doubles the weight of the government's political responsibilities for what has been denounced by our colleagues. So when photographic notices have become a regular tactic of the government, we send out a message of evil to the winter Greek society and, above all, to our youth, which leaves the country. For every executive at the top of the administrative pyramid, Minister, who is placed with a photographic proclamation in a position of administration, another executive, with more qualifications and a greater service and a better service image, is disabled and entered into the so-called "service fridge", when the Greek people are still, at the expense of the highest tax, paying the executive placed with a photographic declaration, but also the executive that is deactivated. And because what happens at the top of the administrative pyramid occurs in the middle of the administrative pyramid, for every unnecessarily intake of a poster, a free trader is led to the cessation of his work, a dealer is putting rolls down in his shop. For every unjust and unjust renewal of a contract in order to create a party army, a young man loses his job in industry or the craft industry. Because all this, which is done in the public sector, Minister, is in the case of taxes paid by the private sector, a private sector, which is currently squeezing, a real economy which is shrinking and a stagnating unemployment, which is now stable over 21% and is, of course, multiple of the unemployment rates of the other European countries. So this Greek cooperation should be seen as an opportunity to stop bad texts. I am not one of those who claim that such mistakes were not made in the past, but honestly from you today I do not expect this answer. Because today we're in trouble, and we should have learned. Unfortunately, however, the government’s practices prove that you remain untreatedly the same. I mean the bad texts of the past, and I would say that in many cases you are more the same than the old ones, which are worse than those you blame. So today, when we have experienced what we have experienced in this ten-year crisis, you - your Government, I mean - brought the bill on the staffing of public administration should have first heard the criticism of counter-population. You should have incorporated the issues we have raised and, above all, you should have done a good law, which you will respect as a gospel. I wondered, hearing our rapporteur say that since September 2016 there has been no recruitment of a public administration official by the so-called ‘registers’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u76	Yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u77	There are records and records, Mr Barkas, but deceiveing an already imperfect law shows your intentions. I will conclude, Minister, by saying that despite the promises of colonization, the government continues at all levels, both at the top and at the bottom of the pyramid, to the party plateau. Do you really think that with the agreement you have signed, which binds generations of Greeks, that you and we can act tomorrow with the same recipes and the same tactics? We will all be judged very hard by history, but because you now have the rule of the country in your hands and have it in such a time, as I have described before, your responsibilities to know that they are multiple, not personal, total government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The last honourable Member is Mr Athanasios Davakis. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, a great deal has been said, unfortunately well-founded and true by the previous colleagues, and there is still any further debate on the main issue, on which the New Democracy is questioned, which controls the government and, in particular, the institutional role of the Minister. A question arises from what has been said, Minister: are you pleased, are you satisfied - I will not proud, as has been said before - with the area of responsibility that you are ministering on? I remember that about a year and a half ago, on a legislative initiative that you had taken, I pointed out to you the issues of the organograms that had begun. There is a specific proposal, and indeed fully documented, and I would say very much compatible with reality and with what public administration means today. Unfortunately, you have told me that you are going ahead with this, that you will go ahead with it, but, from what I understand, what we talked about at the time has not happened. The government moves forward, the political area on which this government relies, methods and practices which are trying to'salt', as the public administration has said before. Clearly, a party - without any misunderstanding - is trying to create bridges and bases on a crucial sector such as the public administration. This practice, at these times, at this time, in this political phase that the country is going through because of the social and economic crisis, do you think that it is possible for a political party, even voted on by the majority of the Greek people, to share it? You are working on the public staffing process, with the aim - as I have said before - of restoring your political and party personnel and creating an arbitrary variation in the required formal qualifications. It's been checked before. You voted for the December 2017 amendment just before the candidates' specific profiles were published, allowing them to participate in party and politically appointed executives. A special role in this approach was played by work experience. And the most outdated examples of arbitrary definition of formal qualifications are observed. This is what the whole world says and, indeed, young people with special qualifications who wanted to join in this direction. In other places, five years of experience is requested in another 15-year period and in other 20-year-olds. Experience shall vary according to the occasion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For a few seconds your tolerance, Mr President. In some cases work experience should be relevant in others not. Experience is one and it defines the area of responsibility of each management. Why are these fluctuations taking place? Successful are the forecasts for foreign languages. Others demand simple knowledge, elsewhere good knowledge and elsewhere excellent knowledge. There are a number of terrains that you are taking, and which I do not think are worthy of the political leadership of the Ministry of Public Administration. I believe that, at the moment, these difficult years which our country has been going through over the last ten years, the only answer to the hot issues, which I would say are public administration afflicting, simplicity and verticalisation, in some cases, of procedures. Unfortunately, instead, you are moving - I repeat - the same old-fashioned methods. I do not want you to oppose the past, saying that you too did the same, because that is not what it says anymore. We control the government and we become better. Perhaps, as an exception - not in this fracture we are in today - we might have been affected by this risk, by various pressures. In any case, however, what Greek society, public administration, the state sector, which is about public officials, who are essentially public servants, is transparent, simplicity and merit. Unfortunately, you are not presenting these in your policy, which makes us extremely, I would say, negative to what you are doing today at the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Olga Gerovasili, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, one initial comment. You have misread all the notices. You didn't take all the data into account. The notices have the criterion on-off, they have the desired qualifications. And, of course, there is a table, which has been posted by the IASC website, which has been decided by the EESC, the special selection body, which corrects and mobilizes all of this, namely, for which you are discussing. Hence the notices have seven thousand candidates, without anything against the notices. And, of course, how photographic can it be a call? It's sixty-nine notices with seven thousand candidates. How do all of them fit into a photographic proclamation written by name? This is a general remark. I shall refer to the following. I would remind you that these positions of the general, special and sectoral secretaries come to replace the general secretaries at the highest administrative position in the public administration. To be clear and clear, we know that we disagree in principle, regardless of all technically we are discussing the tenders. We are promoting an administrative process with meriting criteria, for which, of course, we will accept any criticism. And I mean well-measurable criticism. But this is not what this is all about. Your view is that you want this position to be based on party criteria. So everything else we're talking about is unnecessary. The Minister in question wants to appoint and cease at one night the general, special and sectoral secretary, regardless of the qualifications, regardless of the criteria, irrespective of the procedure, simply on the basis of the Minister's confidence in his face, as you have formulated. For the truth, I will read the statements of the sectoral and questionable Mr Georgiod on 6 June 2018: "Even though all procedural matters were corrected, we disagree with the philosophy of the law. Dismantling is not the conversion of positions with a political character into administrative". In other words, Mr Georgioda, maintaining political positions in which anyone is appointed by party criteria, while being called upon to carry out administrative tasks, is it partisanisation? And to be precise, I read the duties of the administrative secretaries, who have been published in a Presidential Decree: "They are appointed head of the administrative hierarchy of the departments of the Ministry, whose head is in charge. The responsibilities consist of the assistance of the Minister, the coordination of the Ministry's organic units, the monitoring of budget implementation, the achievement of budgetary objectives, the adoption of circulars to the relevant departments on matters of their competence...", etc. They have purely administrative tasks, which obviously do not correspond to party officials. So, for sure, we have a different view of this, and also of the public administration as a whole. We, you know, want the public administration to stand neutral to the citizens and not to recognise the parties and the policies that the parties want to implement. The administration must treat citizens equally. The government's political work has been delegated by the people. The people are empowered by the government in order to implement its programme. And the administration follows this, not because he listens to the Minister, but because he is the command of the Greek people and the public minister must serve the Greek people. I'm making it clear to close this circle. I continue with the statement: "The positions of the secretaries of the ministries are not just manager positions in some agencies. They are positions which have to be consistent with the basic government choices." What do you mean? Could be a lot of things to blame for if he was a bad guy. But no matter how bad he is, he can't blame us for doing what you suggest us to do. It's a reversal that's not rational. In other words, if they agree with the government choices - in other words, they must be trustworthy - then that is the only criterion that these positions must have for them, with all this burden they have to bear. At the same time, however, you forsake us for the ministers of Ministers, for the fellow parliamentarians, that they are our own children. So, in the political positions, you're asking the minister's partners to be with ASA? The postmasters are associates of the Minister. The Minister is a political position. The Minister's partner is political. He chooses with criteria personally. I hope we agree on that. Because once you find a man who belongs to SYRIZA or who is in a SYRIZA body and who is also a Minister of State's associate, you are sending us a complaint to the newspapers. So in these positions - the posts of fellow Members and ministers - we want civilian staff, we want administrative staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u82	However, they can also go to the administrative committee with the amendment you have put forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u83	Now, the worst of all this is not that we disagree. Because that is obviously what we disagree. We have different perceptions. But, in order to support this, you distort facts, guide publications, make direct contacts with what you know in Europe, such as the People's Party, or I don't know what else, in order to degrade our policy. Look, ladies and gentlemen, now we are ruling. This is the choice of this government. Whenever you rule, do what you understand. And then, when you were unable to do this, that is to dismantle through Europe, blame the institutions and Europeans for not comprehending and doing us the favors. You do that, too. Anyway. So you say: "Our view is that the troika has probably understood its wrong choice to integrate such a problematic policy, in terms of process and philosophy, into the memorandum. Unfortunately, the institutions have failed with this choice and in our view it is too late for any corrective intervention." This is what you are talking about in relation to the institutions, when you do not like what is chosen to happen in the country with European good practice, so that we can see who is a Europeanist. Ladies and gentlemen, we disagree and disagree in principle. We voted for Mr.4369/2016. We didn't do it now, so we could put our own kids in order, which you're saying. It has been a law adopted since 2016. That is where we voted for the register of directors. Do you know what the conditions are for registering managers, that is, those who are also involved in the crisis as civil servants and, of course, also from the private sector? A staff member must have grade 1 and cumulatively hold a doctoral, postgraduate, or be an ECHR graduate, or be head of a Directorate-General for three years, or be head of the Directorate-General for ten years. And all this has to be cumulative to get into the register. Relevant qualifications need...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u84	Either be a secretary-general or be a poster.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u85	In the register?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u86	The poster, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u87	No, the poster's not in the register. It's from the private sector. It's on the other hand, Mr. Georganta. He doesn't get into the field. The private sector participates in the post-examination notice, which you tabled in the debate. When we had the law debate, your proposal was the private sector. And you were right, and we accepted it, and we put it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u88	The other is the poster, the politically chosen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u89	The retired is the one who comes from the private sector when he's not a civil servant. Where a civil servant is a retired person, he shall be required to be entered in the register. That's quite clear. I don't understand why you can't see it. So all notices are done in this way. For sixty-nine seats there are seven thousand candidates. Photo you don't say it! With regard to the divergences in the work schedules: What divergences? What do you compare it to? Have you ever done a work schedule in the Greek public and we don't know? What do you compare and say "differences from the outline"? Since the contour is now, for the first time. You've never made contours, you've had it all in bulk. In order for there to be no shadow in the process, we entered, studied international good practice, with models of French, German, Austrian. There was a full study to align notices. Although they were all legal with Law.4369/2016- they were all legal! - they didn't have a homogeneity. Why didn't they have a homogeneity? Because the administrative secretaries have administrative tasks. Special sectoral secretaries per Ministry have other tasks to do, which are administrative, but also has specific features, because they follow a special work of the Ministry. So why did we do this? You didn't want that, and we want it. Why? Because, as a goal, we have the collection, the safeguarding of institutional memory, that is, the continuity of the public administration, regardless of the change of government. You know, it's very problematic for public administration to depend on party officials. This is reflected in all civil relations with the state and has been dealt with over time by the Greek people. So here we made an open notice, a worthwhile process, exclusively on the recommendation of an independent newly created institution, the Special Administration Selection Council. What's it up to? It shall be composed of three members of the AACC, an Adviser or a Legal Board of the State, a Chair or a member of a Scientific Council of the EMCDDA, a Citizens' Counselor, or an Assistant Counselor, an expert from the Government Reform Council, an expert on the part of ADEDY, an expert designated by the central employers' organisations for BSE, ESDP, GSE, with their legal alternates. Oh, and, Minister, he doesn't choose arbitraryly. After choosing three, who have all these qualifications, he chooses one of them as the supervisor. However, they have all these formal qualifications, otherwise they cannot reach the level of three within so many thousand notices. Remind me of the famous institution of the oral interview, which, in the days of yours - and of PASOK, of course - was the means by which the desired recruitment or evaluations or anything. For the first time we have a structured interview, which is posted on the website, there is in a manual. Everyone knows on which terms they will be considered, in equal times, with corresponding questions. It is therefore minimised - until it is abolished - the subjectivity of the interview. And that was for the first time. Also, here you see that we are upgrading the role of ASAP, as it participates in the management judgments, it supports the whole process organisationally. In your question about who got files and so on, when it comes to me, I obviously give it to the ADP, because I have no right to answer it either. ASAP, as you know, is an independent authority. Answer S.A.P.D.... You have the answer. So the answer - which you read half - says that, in the first few days, he replied to four ministries, says so...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u90	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u91	Ask the SAPA. Ask again the question of forwarding it. I cannot answer the ADP as an independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u92	I'm going and I'm taking them out of S.H.I.E.L.D.!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u93	But I don't know!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Georgiod, because it's not written in the Minutes what you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u95	Please contact...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u96	I'll do it fast, don't worry. I just don't know how to tell you. I don't know, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u97	But if they're not written in the Minutes, Mr. Georganta, there's no real involvement of your remark.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u98	So the AAP responds and speaks for four. It says 'I sent, but I was wrong to send them'. The A.S.S.P. itself writes it in his answer. At the request of Ministers he sent four, but the AACC says he was wrong and he stopped it. I can assure you that no dossier has been delivered - says at the end the answer - to no Minister. No record to any Minister, says the AAP at the end of the answer you didn't read. I'm saying that, so we can turn that off, too. And whatever question you have, bring it with parliamentary control and I'll give it to the AACC. I'll pass it on, I'll do it all. And I'll do it soon, I promise. I want to tell you something else, so I can change a little bit. It is in the same context and it is about administrative reform, which we have the opportunity to discuss here today. For other ministries I cannot discuss, but for administrative reform I can. So you know that today it is going on and on at the level of crisis among the Heads of State and Government. At the moment, they have already been judged by a special body, corresponding to which no Minister and no Ministry intervened, of the eighty-sixty-sixteen general government directors, with the data I know until the day before, which has also started at the level of the directors. Crisis will be completed at the end of the year. How many years have there been public crises? A dozen. What did Mr Mitsotakis do in December 2014 when he felt they were losing the government? He judged by assigning all the heads of government to the entire Greek state. Yes, sir. What did we do when we got out of government? We kicked them out? Oh, no. It is so far because we will not do so again. And we trusted them even though we knew who they were chosen, because we must trust the administration in such a way that we did not. I'm not sure what you would do if you were in our position. You'd do exactly the same. So we're not like you. We trust the administration no matter how difficult it is. So they will be replaced not by delegation but only when a crisis arises. What have I read in titles what I've been telling you these days in the middle of the New Democracy friendly? I read: "We have eaten slaps, slaps, slaps of institutions, red, yellow cards" and several other characterizations and titles, which lack imagination, as I must confess. But what you did not read well as you had to and also read it fragmentally is Greece's compliance report, which was submitted to the group drawn up by the European Commission. And because this could be my speech today to tell you two things about where the reform is, as I have promised Mr Davakis a few points from it, I will not tell you, but I shall read the report from the European Commission. I understand, of course, that it is difficult for you to understand that the state is changing for the first time, that we are on the markets, that we are ending the memorials, that we have 2% growth, that we are solving a series of problems that you have loaded on the back of the Greek people for many years. However, it's okay, the Greek people are experiencing it. I read from page 35 of the report: "Public administration reforms are a key pillar of the support programme. The legislative reform package agreed under the programme was completed to the greatest extent within the framework of the third evaluation, while the fourth assessment focused, in particular, on the implementation of these important reforms, covering the broad aspects of Greek public administration. A key reform was to set the cornerstones for the development of an integrated human resources system through the introduction of a mobility system, including the development of organograms and job profiles and annual evaluations - an evaluation system - of the performance of civil servants. Other reforms include the launching of a transparent and open selection procedure for the appointment of senior officials and the adoption of an Interministerial Coordination Manual to strengthen overall coordination at central government level’. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] And it continues: First, mobility: a key element in the development of the human resources management system was the introduction of a modern mobility system that would allow for the movement of civil servants wherever they are needed. The scheme replaced the unmoved and opaque procedure, mainly based on the secondments as a way of mobility, even if the needs of the host service were more permanent. A first cycle began in November 2017, the second cycle started in April 2018. In the first cycle more than eight hundred job vacancies were published, two thousand candidates expressed their interest in 90% of the available jobs. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u99	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. There are encouraging conclusions that the second cycle will be completed faster than the first cycle and that there is an increased interest in both participating actors and candidates who submit the application. Secondly, an establishment plan - outlines of positions: in 2018, there was significant progress made by the public bodies that completed their organisational schedules and job profiles. I would remind you that all the organograms and contours are not monumental commitments that you had imposed on the Greek State and reduced the positions in 2013, if I remember correctly, I am not sure about the year. They're normal organograms. What is needed to operate a service. It was created by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction electronic application, which provides a single platform, where each service postes its digital organogram and allows each job to be connected to the respective employee. This has already been done. It should be noted that this is a first-time exercise - for the majority of public bodies - and it is important to complete it to fully reflect the structure and needs of the respective entity. The objective set for June, for the establishment plans and for the contours has been achieved and the public administration has indeed exceeded it. To date, all the digital organograms of all ministries and two hundred thirty institutions, the largest bodies of the Greek public administration, have become. We've exceeded the target we've set and we're moving fast. There are now new organograms coming every day because the reform is inspiring. Assessment of civil servants: Significant improvements have been made in the implementation of annual performance assessments. In addition to the authorities' intention to cover the entire scope of the law, the evaluation will be carried out electronically for 2017 for the first time. The annual evaluation started in May. It will be completed in July. By mid-June, 56% of the self-assessment of all officials enrolled was completed. I also have numbers that I can give you because we are now electronically watching them every day and we are watching them. Right now, until mid-June - I do not have the figures today - we are talking about 100 000 employees. Integrated human resources management system: An important reform is the development of the single system that will enable efficient and efficient allocation and management of resources. The main elements of the system are now implemented through the mobility programme, including organograms and job descriptions, the annual assessment of the performance of civil servants and the transparent selection procedure of all senior officials. Installation of public administration executives. Significant progress has been made in the appointment of directors-general. This important reform is now under way for medium and senior civil service officials. By mid-June, if I remember correctly, sixty-nine of the eighty and in July the process is expected to be completed. So here is the report, too, on the level of the Secretary-General. According to the legislation, they will have fixed-term orders and their replacement will not be left to anyone's discretion. However, the implementation of this reform has faced a number of challenges due to a deficit of a minimum set of eligibility criteria. Therefore, corrective measures were taken in order to ensure that a coherent, objective manner is achieved. It included a review of eligibility conditions at sixty-nine calls from a joint working group. You know what the Ministry and Expertise France were formed. The minimum criteria were defined for both execution levels for both languages and professional experience and for management experience. On the basis of this review it was agreed that the twenty-two notices should be re-issued in July 2018. So that is all the reform and progress which you have not read, so that you know it, Mr Davakis, in the Commission report.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u101	I asked you another question, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u102	For the contours and organograms you asked me. I've answered your question. I told you numbers. Didn't you hear them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u103	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u104	If you have anything else, we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u105	It's just, you don't sound, Mr. Davaki. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u106	So here, to close, I would like to remind you that so far the New Democracy has changed its position of five or six times. I think six times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u107	Where did we change our position?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u108	I'll tell you. Initially, in the debate of the bill your first place was to be good and be from the private. We've taken it, it's done. Then, after the bill ended, the specula began that the positions are double and we swell the public. You understood your mistake that we were not doubled and that you had to give up on us because we did not start the process. As soon as we started the process, you indulged us because it was late. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing on several occasions by the Secretary of State at the end of the speech bell.]] So since you have seen that it is going on, you have told us that the notices are not good, and since you have seen that we will also fix the notices, you have said: we are asking for the procedure to be cancelled because we do not want this. We want - what I told you at the beginning - parties positions. Did you end up after revolt - isn't that a relic? - after six different posts, which position will be taken against the subject of secretaries. This is to find out who has no positions and who is trying to change on the basis of reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u109	Madam Minister, I would just like to inform you that you have both a secondary and a trilogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u110	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u111	I'm talking about you, managing your time. I can put you all year round.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u112	The Greek society's demand for state-supply has begun. The state reform will be completed by this government. If the good of you ever become a government, rebuild the party and client state, which you have set up in a scientific way, I have to admit, over all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister. We will now start with the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Theocharopoulos, I think you have contacted Mr. Katsiki. There's no point. After the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Mrs Kozobol, Mr Katsikis will be invaded and we will continue with the rest. Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with three introductory remarks, on the basis of what I have heard from the Minister. Madam Minister, you said, for example, that there are seven thousand candidates, so the competition cannot be photographic. But it's clear that it's completely different how many candidates are than exactly what's described in it. And if anyone is, perhaps, more qualified than any of the candidates - I mean in relation to what you wish to put in place - it is clear that there are also some other 'walls' that you have put in the notices. So, in the end, it will be what your ministers want. In any case, however, the competition is photographic. I also heard another comment from you that because you voted for the law in 2016, you voted for it two years ago, so it wasn't for your own children to become. But that's exactly why you didn't vote for him. You voted for him two years ago when you were government - and you are still government - so that you can create the conditions and get to the point that those who really want to serve public administration, your own children, have precisely these conditions. I therefore think that this argument is also rejected. I'm closing with the introductory remarks. I am pleased that you have admitted that it is the wrong institutional and not just the transfer of the files from the AACC to the Ministries. You realise that this makes the procedure not only null and void but from the outset. And in any case, I think that anyone with the legitimate interest can appeal. And in any case this procedure will be annulled. But let's go, ladies and gentlemen, in general, see a few issues, because in this Chamber we have to speak with numbers, with evidence and not just make a simple confrontation of ideas. I think that one of your main announcements, Minister, even in your statements when you took over the Ministry, but also in general as government, was the abolition of the client state. Of course, here as a opposition, we denounce that the last three and a half years have actually become inconsistent. And of course you are showing by these actions and omissions that not only did you fight the client state - which you, when you were opposition, said that when you became a government, you would fight it - but in fact you devastated it, you made it happen. And unfortunately, with some specific legislative initiatives, which you have taken, this giganticism is hoped that, later on, when it comes back to opposition, it will be the smuggling for the next government of Mr Mitsotakis. So let's go see what you've done all these years. We revealed that by the law you passed, i.e. with Law No.4368/2016, you created fourteen paid committees and working groups in a public administration that, unfortunately, has a multitude of structures and people. Of course no one in your government or in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group nor in the Greek Parliamentary Group considered this as a continuation of the client state. We presented as a new Republic elements showing that you created a hundred and twenty new structures in the form of legal persons and secretaries. Of course, none of the SYRIZA and the Independent Greek Parliamentary Groups have shown that it is annoyed. We have shown you that, at eighty-six out of a hundred twenty, a new structure referred to staff recruitment and not to an exact number. So you realize what a financial derailment you are driving the state. In other words, for two of the three new structures that you have created, you did not predict an exact number of those you would hire as staff. Of course, there was no reaction from both the Members of the Independent Greeks and the Members of SYRIZA. Also, there was no reaction when we denounced the unreasonable recruitment of contractors. Instead of the government drawing up a plan for the non-delimitation of the outdated public sector, and then indeed to issue firm contours to cover the positions, you have proceeded to a trick, Minister, so that they can be recruited anywhere as many as possible. In just two years you have increased by twenty thousand contractors, breaking the 100 thousand-dollar dam in a public sector where at present there are about six hundred thousand permanent civil servants. In fact, the extraordinary number has doubled compared to 2014. From seventy - three thousand in December 2014, you took him to February 2018 in a hundred twenty - seven thousand. One must say, of course, that it is the first time since a Greek Prime Minister has forty-two structures to support it, including one Vice-President, three Ministers of State and one Minister. It's evidence, Minister. And I'd like in your denture if any of what I'm saying is untrue, disprove it. The last example, of course, of writing this left-wing state is the choice of the secretaries of the ministries. First of all, the Government took an indiscriminate decision in terms of increasing the number of secretaries of the Ministries. In addition to the many general and special secretaries, you have, of course, created new generations of secretaries, sectoral and administrative, as well as a series of pairs, such as sectoral experts and their alternates. At the end of January 2018, the number of secretaries of the Ministries increased from sixty-five to fifty-six. Almost, Minister, you tripled them. Despite the strong reaction of the New Democracy, you have unfortunately also moved on to the next step. You have declared all the positions of these Secretaries in accordance with the procedure of No.4369/2016, which you voted on. Of course you have followed a tested, I would say, customer policy. First, that is, you have chosen the secretary of your choice and then you have seen what requirements each must have. If this chosen person does not have these conditions, but of course - worse for the position, as I have told you at the beginning of my speech - you also create the valves to exclude the seven or eight thousand that will be presented, which may have the hope that they might be able to cover this position. In any case, we know very well that these positions are already given to your own people. Many examples have been mentioned by our rapporteur and speakers who have put forward specific positions, namely examples. But I'll tell you more. For example, in the position of the Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, where he is responsible for the representation of the Ministry to the European Commission, the OECD, the International Labour Organisation requires a good knowledge of English again. At the same time, the candidate sectoral secretary of the social economy must have an excellent knowledge of English, which will obviously be very useful to him to discuss with farmers in Crete, Thessaly and Macedonia. And of course, the vulnerabilities don't stop here. For two secretarial posts of the Ministry of Economy and Development, namely administrative and specific sector as a required standard qualification, the possession of an AEI is generally foreseen. For all the other positions of the same Ministry, however, they are exhaustively mentioned both undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, and even in some places, the existence of a PhD. In the case of a special secretary of the Labour Inspectorate, for example, a special degree or a postgraduate in information is required and, of course, a Minister, at random, a special secretary holds such a degree. The left-hand recipe remains unparalleled even in the selection of directors-general. At first, it is announced on the basis of real estates and branches that the selection process of directors is, of course, and later, you are supposed to have some strict criteria. As I said before, if some of our well-meaning fellow citizens are persuaded to declare candidates for the post, you are putting the corresponding procedures that you know very well how they can then be excluded. For all this, of course, we have called you on the parliamentary route, through the questions and my dear colleague Mr Georgioda and many other colleagues from the New Democracy, and as emerged from the discussion procedure, no answer has been received. I shall submit for the minutes a notice which has recently come out. In particular, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzis, dated 15-6-2018, took it to the office of 17 addresses of his Ministry. This, Minister, is precisely the example of a photographic declaration. Watch out, in the same Ministry for positions of directors and directors if you see one - one position, there are completely different criteria. Others, for example, need experience in the position of chief ten years of age, some need only three years, some need seven years. We see in some cases that a postgraduate qualification is required and in others that a postgraduate qualification is not required. But I think that the most characteristic example...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u115	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u116	Listen, Minister. Listen to the most characteristic example. There is a Directorate for Actions to Extrovert and International Issues. This post does not even require English language knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u117	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u118	Can I repeat the title? “Address of Actions Outward and International Issues” and does not require the knowledge of English or foreign languages in general. Let's go to some other addresses: The Transport Development Department requires excellent knowledge of the English language. The Infrastructure and Transport Policy Directorate requires excellent knowledge of the English language. In other words, the most outdated section of the same Ministry is not required and English is not required. I am presenting for the minutes the notice and, of course, the annexes to the notice. All that's missing is those names. [[At this point the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned statement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me tell you, Minister, that you are right about something that is perhaps the most outrageous of the whole case and about the reform of public administration. In the face of this unprecedented philosophical rule, lenders do what they control and the government does what they hear. And of course, if all the previous ones haunt the Greek drama, the last act that turns it into a comedyle is evaluation. All these people, which I described earlier, are being recruited in this way and in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding, will be evaluated. Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation of officials, without the assessment of the bodies to which they offer their services, is obviously a misguided assessment, and most importantly, when there are bodies, legal persons, whose government is still ignoring their existence. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a historic compromise of the 'first time left' with the lenders at the expense of the country, a compromise which includes de facto relaxation on the part of our partners - as regards the exercise by SYRIZA of the sport of the party rupture - but unfortunately also on the part of our country in the payment of the bill in full. Against this situation, where public administration is turned into a hostage of a government majority and a party mechanism, no one can close their eyes. Against this kind of policy based on gross falsification of reality and regular propaganda, we must face up to it, at least those who want to see Greece leave behind at some point in the party state. Madam Minister, I close with this: If you think that with such procedures you will drugize the work of the next government under Mr Mitsotakis, then you are mistaken. And unfortunately, for your Government - not for you personally - the plans that some tenants are currently working on at the Maximos Mansion, as far as this mineslosis is concerned, are sure to fall into the void. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that, with the decision of the President of Parliament of 29 June 2018 (no. Page 128 8650/5548/29-6-2018), the Intergroup Committee was set up to draw up a long-term national drug strategy. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u120	Mrs. Kozobol, you have the floor for six minutes. Here comes Mr. Katsikis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing this topical question in the face of a paradox. Members of the New Democracy are accuseing this government of comradelying the state of the state for rhetorical or photographic recruitment. Fortunately, some of the Members who were put on the table were recognized to be the same before, but they were waiting for something else from us. Immediately they recognize that we are different. We have also heard, according to their wishes to invoke the compliance report, but when it was good for the progress of the project in the public sector, then we had unholy alliances with the partners, I do not know what value it is. There we see you forsake them what the blind eyes do or what they give us credit and badly give them to us. Ladies and gentlemen, the passions of the public administration have been described in dozens of reports since 1950, with its strongest embrace from the political leadership in question, indignation in recruitment, as well as in the careers of civil servants, concentration in structures and decision-making, bureaucracy, lack of qualified managers in administrative matters and the absence of serious human resources management, and much more, which is not the time to report. Efforts were made over time. Some of them were worthwhile. However, they were fragmentary arrangements, with no follow-up and for the first time since the Migration, under Law No.4369/2016, a modern integrated system of procedures, how to choose and develop the executive capacity of the public administration, based on the principle of transparency and integrity. This being given to many others that time does not allow them to grow, it really wants to be daring - not to say courageous - the New Democracy MPs to ask a question about so-called 'photographic' provisions and supposedly 'photographic' notices by public officials, much more so as the memories are fresh than the time when the Minister for Administrative Reform, the current Chief of New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, not only did not apply the existing legislative framework that had many positive provisions and changed to one night all the heads, but also established provisions for the evaluation that started from the position that a large part of the Greek public is useless and must be privatised. In addition, L.4369/2016 provides for the aptitude process for selecting and placing new secretaries who were previously selected, but were also ceased by the political leadership in its discretion. The choice is made by the register of public sector officials and the conditions of registration are the guarantees of a high level of qualification of candidates, but also by the private sector. The selection shall be made solely on the recommendation by an independent body, the Special Selection Board. On the basis of this, the institutionalised framework by L.4369, which is worthwhile, as I have said briefly and above, was first issued by the Ministries to cover sixty-nine administrative, sectoral and special secretaries. It goes without saying that these positions are differentiated in terms of the qualifications required, which are determined on the basis of the policy area and the mission of each Ministry. Of course, calls for expressions of interest could not be made before the establishment of the organograms and the creation of the relevant organic positions. It would be inconsistent in this case, while any exception to those who serve in the positions that are being proclaimed would constitute a discriminating discrimination against them and a violation of constitutional rules. It is clear that the procedures for filling the positions of administrative, sectoral and special secretaries are progressing with respect to the provisions of the law, with transparency and merit, and a review of a number of calls for associations among themselves was decided, although they were not irregular, but within a legal framework. Here I would like to say: How could these provisions be photographic, when the candidates - who should not be underestimated - are officials from the register of directors and from the private sector? About seven thousand came, who instantly know how to read the invitation and see that they are qualified to have them participated. How could these seven thousand candidates be photographed? How did the seven thousand candidates see themselves in these invitations? In conclusion, the implementation of Law4369/2016, with difficulties, supplements, corrections, is progressing. At the same time, e-government, e-government, and codification of legislation are progressing, while digital organograms, job profiles, employee mobility legislation, replaces the customer travel system, regardless of the service needs and change the landscape in the public administration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In view of the above, it is hypocrisy that the New Democracy should abdicate the Government for a public administration's assimilation operation. It is like Mr Mitsotakis' complaint to BSE that the public staff increased by twenty-eight thousand with the 2017 census, and it is well known - he knew it himself when he said it, I imagine - that in December 2017 the staff of the public, including the Security Bodies, teachers, clergy, etc. It amounted to five hundred sixty-six thousand, which is reduced by ten thousand from that in December 2014, as well as many others which, according to the usual and friendly tactics of the New Democracy, become the white one. If the government wanted to have its own children, it would maintain the old client system. There would be no reason to make new laws. It would not replace it with a new system based on objective and merital procedures. The demand for society and the commitment of this government is the collection and independence of the public administration that operates for the benefit of the citizen in the light of the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u122	Mrs. Kozobol, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u123	I shall conclude, Mr President. And if the New Democracy wants to respond once and for all to its role as a Civic Opposition for the good of this country, it must criticise, complement, support such a public. But it cannot be destroyed by distorting and falsifying reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. Mr Katsikis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor. Here, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this Stepping forward for giving us the opportunity through its opposition, without any element of constructive policy, to remember what happened yesterday and what is happening today. Allow me to begin with a post of the "AFFECT OF CONTRIBUTIONS" on 25-1-2016. It is an article by Stergios Ziabakas, which starts as follows: “From the first day of formation of the Samara conflict - Venizelos in June 2012, the party started with the stepping up of their own children, not as a personal service, but as part of a huge mechanism within the client state with scientific positions allocation methods”. The publication continues and ends approximately from now on: "The party resalto in the public is considered a given by members of the government partners PASOK - New Democracy, requests or suggestions sometimes on long lists were sent by MPs, party executives, local government representatives with recommendations or attached CVs, where party signals and position of interest were promoted." I'm filing it in the Minutes. There's more evidence in it, but little time, it doesn't give me the opportunity to read even more. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsikis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To remind you, ladies and gentlemen, how you were operating, we thank you for waking up memories of the past of your own governance and your own political tactics. Let me say, in the end, that it is a disgrace to you, when you have so glazed your nest, to look for stains in our nest. Ladies and gentlemen, you have exercised your memory so much and made it highly selective that you are indeed worthy of admiration. The curse of this people not to see anything else in what one does to the contrary, you maintain it with amazing ability. The paternity of the culture of public administration - don't worry - no one claims it. It's completely yours, really yours. You're at the service of absolute party dependence. Besides, you've been maintaining it for ten years. Do you have anything to answer? Or are you questioning the eruption of executives, directors, divisions, even simple officials who had increased duties every time you took authority? Of course I will not mention how you handled the issue of workers with black at the ERT and the cleaners' redundancies at the Treasury. Law388/2010, as you would like to call it, an attempt to select managers in public administration, what have you done with it? It's the unclaimed ones. You've found other ways. You have set up independent authorities, such as the Independent Public Income Authority. You have restructured ministries, merged services, abolished services, with the aim of excluding them from the legislative framework of choices on the basis of objective criteria. So you again placed the worthy of your choice. You described the European Commission's slap in the compliance report drawn up in the context of the fourth evaluation. But you missed something. Should I assume, randomly? I don't think so. You have failed to mention the fact that the committee's description, the institutionalisation and implementation of a series of reforms promoted by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, and that the committee expressed its complete satisfaction. Half the truth, though, you know, is the greatest lie. And this sport is well held. After all, the first application of each new provision - and this we must all agree - is very likely and statistically expected to present procedural gaps. Experience, however, and knowledge of services in conjunction with the will of the political leadership are capable of curing them. Should the subject-matter of the positions of the Secretaries not be reflected in any notice? Should qualifications not be specified for each position? So you want everything in the bucket to drop, without any differences highlighting the role of each man for the powers to be given to him in the general public interest when he serves? But, as I said, you guys want to put everything in the bucket. And you know why you're doing this? Because the blurred landscape is always receptive to intervention. You are disturbed by transparent processes and measurable qualifications because they eliminate the friendly place for you cooking. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. But there is no way you can do it. For we have another flaw, ladies and gentlemen. We have inappropriate values. We are not going to retreat to anything that would jeopardise the objectivity of the provisions of L.4369/2016. We will defend the legislation that we voted on and only consent to changes that would bring improvements and further implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, before entering the question, I would like to say that we had a bad decision yesterday on the refugee question. It was bad for the European Union itself before I spoke about each country separately. This is a compromise in substance that does not solve any problems. This is a compromise that is against what our country was constantly claiming and claiming. For example, the decision states that relocation and resettlement will take place on a voluntary basis, that is, there is no compulsory division, as we have sought, so that it is a European issue and not a national issue and that certain countries will be charged only here in the south, and indeed, as the decision says, without prejudice to the reform of the Dublin Regulation. In other words, the reform of the Dublin Regulation is actually going to the bells. It also says that controlled detention centres will be set up. I think it is a bad decision that will cause problems, but in any case it does not solve the problem at European level. The problem will be here and, in fact, the situation is getting worse for both the refugees and our country and the countries of the south. The European Union, if it does not have a common policy on refugee, will not be able to play its part, which we, who are self-evidently European, are seeking. I now come to the point that we are discussing today on the basis of the question, which, of course, relates again to the framework of a modern country and to how public administration should be. We are therefore discussing, on the basis of the question, a very serious issue, that of public administration and anxiety, an issue that has a particular dimension in times of major challenges, such as the ones we have been experiencing in recent years. The fact that public administration is the great patient has been said by many and is well known to everyone. This situation leads to the deterioration of the administration's relations with the citizens who have exercised and rightly criticised the services provided, but also to the general functioning of the administration. The situation is marginal. Awareness of the disastrous effect it has on every development effort from the crisis is urgent, inertia, anxiety, bureaucracy. The passions of the Communist Public Administration are here and they are avenged, with a different staff every time, such as the spirit of dignity, transparency and renewal. We see it in these notices, in every ministry. In February 2015 the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, said: "We will change the system of selecting heads, cutting the Gordian link between political parties and state mechanisms". In 2016, the Government set out the main priorities of the reform to the public administration and targeted, as you argued, the overthrow of a pathogenous, counterproductive and customer relations regime. Once again, however, we note that statements such as 'the prevalence of equality, dignity and transparency is our principle' are abstaining from the decisions and acts of this government. Now, what to begin with with these tens of notices from various ministries. Since February, the Democratic Reconciliation has asked the Minister for Economy and Development a question. Because, indeed, this matter concerns both the Ministry and how the ministries operate within it. And in response, he simply informed us that the Special Selection Board provides all the guarantees of merit. Seeing the question that had been tabled at the time, he said that the Ministry in question was very accurately photographed of the qualifications of the already qualified officials in these posts. I am now talking about February 2018 in the question that has been asked, with concrete elements. All he had answered in February - I see here the question and the answer, which I shall make for the Minutes too - is that in one place there are fifty two people, in the other place there are twenty-eight people who have applied. It is clear that these are not answers to convince, when it comes to data, that in one post, for example the senior secretary, there is no request for the excellent knowledge of English, while in the place of his deputy. We had submitted the evidence to the relevant Treasury at that time and had not received any convincing response. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Obviously, the system as a whole did not work properly. There was a lack of uniform, predetermined, objective selection criteria, with the adaptation of the notices of specific Ministries to the very specific qualifications of existing Secretaries, rather than to the particular requirements of each position. Of course, many are doing the papers, because with the unemployment that is currently in existence there are too many people who want to get into these procedures. But when they see that they are unreasonable, they are frustrated there and we have even more to fleeing minds abroad, the loss of human resources. The examples are many. A characteristic is the example of the Ministry of Tourism, which needs simple knowledge of English and a five year exercise especially of the law, to describe a particular man. There are other cases. Whoever reads them understands. I think it goes without saying that the ministries worked in this way. Here we need a comprehensive government action to resolve this issue. There was a rejection of the application of the procedure by the partners. You have informed public of twenty-two troubled notices. I don't know if these are just the ophthalmists, or if there are other problems. This also concerns our country to resolve a number of issues and how, from now on, this issue will be resolved. It's a matter. All of this shows that any sense of sovereignty is lost. We're not going forward that way. This is how we will not overcome the multi-annual crisis and move on to growth. We shall not regain the confidence of the citizens by such methods. The question is how to keep the young people in the country and bring back those who have already left. Equally important and particularly worrying is that our institutional system is unable to react alone and restore the broken chain of merit - evaluation - efficiency - incentives. It needs a deep incision to public administration, which will be comprehensive. We need a new quality of governance, with public services that are civil and development-friendly. We need to regroup the state and abolish every customer relationship. It needs action, not theory. It needs effective implementation. Otherwise, no law, no matter what it is, will work. No directive, nor of the Ministry of Administrative Reform itself to all other ministries, will work. There needs to be a decisive turn for the government in the logic of merit. The logic that "you too did the same or worse", which often exists towards the opposition, does not solve the problems. No one who listens to us at the moment is interested in doing so at this time a little better or a little worse. He's interested in not seeing decency. He deposites the papers somewhere, they tell him "we, the already servants take it, despite the fact that you have much more skill". This takes him away from the country. Let's just say it. Every new scientist and any man who has administrative capacity to be able to perform his duties is currently removed. So we must at some point agree on what is self-evident. And what we are saying is that in any modern European country they are self-evident. I really regret the fact that the partners have turned twenty-two notices behind them and that this situation has not been prevented by the government so that it does not happen, that there is no such obvious evidence that our country has been exposed. In this context, then, there is a need for consultation in self-evident terms. And self-evident is a reform of public administration, which will once again be part of it. As old incision was the ASEP - regardless of the "devils" that have existed over time and have entered the process - and now we need an incision into the public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have not heard my speech at all. The Ministry studied the notices and made twenty-two if you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u130	You're not listening, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u131	And you're glad!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u132	And from the partners, Minister, you didn't have any problem with the evaluation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Georganta, it's not to be happy or to be sorry... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u134	Mr Theoharopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, your colleague has gone up to Stepma. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u135	First of all, I ask the question: what in the good opposition are you people of the New Democracy doing? You asked a question of thirty-seven Members of the New Democracy. Right now in the Chamber you're three. Even you do not believe in your opposition to NATO, Europe, embassies, etc. SYRIZA. The truth is that today's debate is hypocritical. It is another New Democracy politique to serve your propaganda needs. In the first phase, it should be stressed that everyone has been accepted by the Greek people, the position of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, that the customer policy implemented by the parties of the democratic arch is a morbid feature of the Greek political scene and that it is one of the cumulative causes that led to the exacerbation of the economic crisis. All the governments of over forty years of post-population have been misguided by real populism and have undoubtedly served on a continuous safari of recruitment and ruptured services. But let us also see some undeniable information on today's subject. They are elements referring to the governance of the country by New Democracy and appearing in the newspaper ‘TSEs’. ‘Recruitment to the Greek State in the period 2004-2009’. According to this publication, the number of recruitments corresponds to 129% of current staff. During the period of the country’s rule by Costas Karamanlis, eight hundred and sixty - five thousand people were hired to the public, and today, sixty - seventy - thousand people are employed throughout the public. Not to speak in detail of seasonal, indefinite time, of contract work, for the sake of the time economy. I would like to say, however, that in your time the oral interview was established. At the same time, the Presidential Decree of Pavlopoulou enabled the permanentization of three-five thousand two hundred forty-five contractors employed in the public sector. It is characteristic that in the five-year Karamanlis - I mean the younger, the nephew - they were hired on average annually around ninety thousand four hundred contractors, which is more than twice as high as the present forty-five thousand six hundred contractors. I am therefore tempted to say something that has been said and said too many times in this Chamber that at the house of the hanger - I say it about you in the New Democracy - they do not talk about rope! Of course SYRIZA, along with the ANELs, who have been ruling for three years, has carried out a recruitment facility. You have a common denominator, SYRIZA and New Democracy, to serve your party interests, to serve the families of your government members. Where do we start and where do we finish, for you who are now ruling? You also have a tactic that is well-established, in every SYRIZA-ANEL co-government bill, to have amendments to take care of your party obligations. In other words, place yourself in positions of your own people and create a party state, what I have said, that is, forty years now. So we disagree with your policies. We are putting together your cheaply populist practices that magnify the public, which, according to the coroner, works at the expense of the average Greek taxpayer. At the same time, the State is practically unable to serve the needs of the public officials, but also the needs of the Greek people. The People's Association - Golden Dawn is aware of what is taking place in all areas of Greek society, stands against the bad texts of political life and promotes the national interest and the will to improve the standard of living of Greeks. Your cockfighting has no end, they are carried out on the order of Brussels and on cheap propaganda, populist practice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, by closing and coming back to the original point, namely that the debate on today's question is a hypocritical, supposedly opposition movement of Officer Mitsotakis, I would like to say that the Greek people have taken over the role of the liberal form of the New Democracy in this Chamber, the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. He has realised that this party is in full comprehension with SYRIZA on all major issues. No one doubts that SYRIZA and the New Democracy one party is the extension of the other. They fully agree on the reception of illegal immigrants, the building of new glasses, the coexistence agreement, all agree. And on the left we know her, she's revealed, she's revealed every day. It was revealed when it came to the public that the Government representative, the Minister of State, Mr.Janakopoulos, was protesting in Skopje, as Secretary General of the Youth Coalition, for this right to be identified as "Macedonia's Republic". On the other hand, however, we also have the so-called 'Right' - in introductory terms, because the term is banned by New Democracy. And the New Democracy is uncovering. New Democracy uses our great national theme for micro-political purposes, but it is not convinced. Mr. Mitsotakis was revealed in his interview with his relative, Ms. Kosoni, at "SKAI", when he admitted that on the subject that made noise, as an opposition, the issue of the ethnic and language of the Skopje, he said that Slavomacedon for the ethnic and Slavocean language would be a good start. And it was not only that Mr Mitsotakis was content with this, but he said that he would not break the commitments, that he would look into the future, after some time has passed, to put the matter to the partners and after gaining credibility. In other words, in financial terms, Mr Mitsotakis is also committed to continuing SYRIZA's destructive work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Pappa, you can finish it if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u137	I shall conclude, Mr President. He is a subordinate mercelian, a man who himself has admitted that his mother tongue since infancy is the German. So we reached the level where we had Jeffrey Papandreou, a man, a Prime Minister who thought in English, to wait now for a prime minister in German. The people, ladies and gentlemen, are not afraid anymore, nothing has to lose. The people are on the streets, facing gangs of cowardly elastics, gangbangers, who have a murderous mood towards the people and throwing chemicals, throwing impact grenades - shine against the crowd where there are both old and old.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u138	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u139	The people bruise in a slogan, which you are as ostracizing as you wish to hide it, is there and I will say it, because the people say it. What are you gonna do? Will you deprive him of immunity? It is called hundreds of thousands of people: "Macedonia is Greek! Cunners, traitors, politicians!'. It's the same people you begging for noodles. It is this very people who you are supposed to be a far-right man as a fascist. And it's the same people who will win. Golden Dawn stands by the people. He stands on the side of the fighting Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Pappa, finish it up. You've been over nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u141	The struggle for our Macedonia continues and will continue. The whole of Greece is a rally. You're done! The Greeks' time is coming! The time of popular nationalism is coming!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Black, you have the floor. Immediately after that, Mr Saridis will be followed and we will proceed to secondary education.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. The civilisation of the public was, is, is and will be one of the main bets to escape the country from the passions of the past. The main pathogenesy is that customer relations and partyisation of the public go hand in hand with anxiety and anxiety usually go hand in hand with incompetence. So, apart from the fact that we are deprived of the services of the skilled, but have not kissed party aprons to be chosen, a climate of heterocracy is also established. In recent studies on the famous Brain Drain, the most important reason our youngsters are leaving, as they themselves say, is not just the economic as the adequacy that goes on in the choices. The institutions, by acknowledging this dignity, have forced us to move forward with the evacuation of public administration. And our great shame is that we did not decide for ourselves, but they imposed on us. So it's not the SYRIZA government who decided, but it was imposed outside. Of course, to be fair and to the previous governments the same thing was happening. Opengov was an attempt by George Papandreou to serve public administration by open procedures, but I think that was also undermined from within. The state as a spoil of power is not easy to share. With L.4369 for the public administration and the Office Register, the positions of the secretaries of the Ministries would be published with open invitations. Open to words, because in practice, as the notices were formulated by Ministry, they were finally shut down, only the photograph of the secretary or other chosen government took place. So, with a lot of beans, you'd be making fun of the puppy bags. But come on, who caught you on the back and showed'red card' to the government, forcing it to reopen twenty-two of the total sixty-sixty-sixteen post offices of the administration and sectoral secretaries of the ministries, that is, one in three. I cannot comment, for example, on the jackpot made by the Ministry of Education, Infrastructure and Transport, where - if I am not mistaken - four in the first, three in the second and three in the third, respectively, notices have been resuscitated, because it was probably a sign of moral advantage! I should like to point out that the resumption of the procedure must be done under appropriate legislation, otherwise it will be lame, because the procedures have already begun. And in order not to think that we are now talking about this, already in the process of voting for L.4369, Potami complained that SYRIZA is building a zipper to hide behind a pretext of sovereignty the placements of party virtues. And as almost two years of setback, without the government having succeeded in implementing the law on the selection of officials in the public sector, Potami has constantly put forward proposals to improve the law in order to bring about the real worth while denouncing one by one of the customer provisions embodied in the bills with the various amendments. But no government lips! They never responded. After all, the fact that since the law was passed in January 2016 it took twenty months to get out the first secretarial invitations, shows that SYRIZA's plan to place the new secretaries as far as possible to the end of the government service, since, under the law, those who are placed will have a four-year term without any possibility of removal. You want to place them at only five, so that they have reason and influence over the Ministries, when you will no longer be government. From the well-known, "We have taken the government, but not power" you will go to "We have lost the government, but not power". I will not go into the examples of photographs of high resolution you have put in the notices. A number of Members have already done so. And since the photograph could not be grouped, the notice for each Ministry was made separately with unambiguous differences between similar positions, which were very easy to avoid, if the Government were to follow examples of the respective notices of the European Union. In order not to say, however, that Potami is only critical of the right to do so, because it is the only one that has no skeletons in the wardrobe, and I would mention, for example, our specific proposals for changes to Law4369 in order to streamline the procedure for selecting secretaries. Firstly, the invitations to the secretaries to date are written by the Ministers and are said to be the candidates themselves, the current secretaries, to write the notices describing themselves. We therefore propose that, from now on, the notices be formulated by the AACC, in consultation with the Ministry concerned, as appropriate. Secondly, the nine-member selection committee of the Secretaries shall comprise only three ALP members. Of the other six members, the five are clearly pro-government and with public declarations. We therefore propose that of the nine members, the majority, at least five, should come from the AEP. Thirdly, because every time the next government is afraid that the previous government will have put its own secretaries in the Ministries just before the end of its term, we propose a rotation system, that is, a rotation system and a 25% of the secretaries will be chosen every year. So, within four years of the expiry of the terms of the terms, all the scribes will have changed gradually and not as a package of pro-government secretaries, as it seems today. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] One more minute, Mr President. In closing, then, one can ask: How is it possible for parties that have in the past ruled in the same or worse procedures of hard-core partying, today, to protest against SYRIZA? Is it a little hypocritical? Maybe it is. After all, politics also has hypocritical doses, as often we have - densely seen lately. But when SYRIZA came out with a flag that would cut out client relations, we didn't understand that he meant the client relationships of others and that he would develop his own. If we were to continue the 'clatecracy', we would also vote for the previous ones who had the 'know how', a scorched voter would say. But you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have come to change these. You were, after all, the hope that came and not the work that would be repeated. So, the clearer and better focused are the photographs of the notices the more blurred the moral advantage you invoke. And when you say that others did the same, say it before, "children, we will do the same," to see who would vote for you. The state, therefore, as a feud of the parties, continues to exist, simply changing feudal ruler. Finally, since there has been a lot of talk over the last few days, would it be more useful to talk about the separation of a party - state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. The Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Association, Mr Saridis, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mrs Kozobol, it is not an argument that you have done 'you' in Civic Opposition. You don't legalize talking. You have come here, you have become government with the vote of the Greek people, to change all the pathogens, which really led the country here that led it to the past. That's not an argument. You shouldn't say that. You have been elected by the vote of the Greek people to change the situation and not to continue this situation. In this timely question tabled by the New Democracy, if we take out the numbers, numbers and dates, you could have tabled the same question to New Democracy many years ago. I wonder what all of our unemployed people who have been thinking about a reason - precisely because they are unemployed and for no other reason - should be following the Channel of Parliament today. Many of the people who see us may think that we are out of the question, because what is happening today proves that we do not know or want to work with each other. To some others, even suspicions may arise that the final reason why we really cannot agree with each other is why we do not find them in sharing. Ladies and gentlemen, the public debate loses in quality and representativeness when it is dominated by the question of procedures. Today we have the question of procedures, which are not very far from reality, but. Let's be honest. The government itself has given this right. That is why she is being criticised by the Qualified Opposition and rightly so through the parliamentary control process and not by statements on the channels or by some leaks on the Internet. Your wrong choice, gentlemen, of collapsing, to try to explain to the Greeks with a phrase what you are dealing with in your attempt to command, has given a right and is the basis of the accusation that we wish to formulate as the Union of Centres. The notorious phrase, which the Parliamentary spokesman of the River also mentioned, "We have taken the government but not the power", while remaining without any further clarification, without further explanations, is not merely attempting to reflect a situation, but at the same time it is also a statement of the implementation of a conscious political decision. I mean, we got the government, but we didn't get the power, and to do that, we do what the others did? The'red card' we got doesn't show you, does it show you, does we not understand in here that we have been taken over, that we no longer have time to react? In any case, the Greeks know which country they live in. They remember what was going on and they know what's going on. They're not hiding these things anymore. No one is really surprised about what he hears in this Chamber today. That's the irony. That's the real problem. If we can blame the government for something, it is not about the broken post-population, clearly, nor about the pillaging of the public funds, which has been done in the past, the pillaging that has been done by the state and which has allowed the bipartisanism that is still going on even nowadays. We cannot blame the government for something that has happened so far. He cannot convince the Greeks with arguments, with legislative initiatives, with communication manipulations, so that he can create a functional framework and be able to get away with communism. That's why we can blame her: why she can't get the partisan out. Because it's still the same practice. The same game is still going on. The 'We have taken the government but not the power' should be explained at some point. But what the Greeks expect to hear is something else. They expect that day that there will be no question that the Greek State operates with merit. When are we finally going to see this day in this country? They expect to hear who and how this can be achieved, who and how it can guarantee this, today, by concise procedures, not in the future and under conditions. There is no tomorrow for this place with old-fashioned policies. You're giving rights. You continue or cannot overthrow a policy that has submerged the country in the past. And with such policies you clearly cannot drive the country into the future. We're not going anywhere like this. What can't you finally understand? What are you guys ignoring? Can you change a situation unstable? Can you heal the patient, raise him up to walk? Do you realize that the country is in intensive and slow, is slow? Maintain artificial breathing and keep him alive instead of healing him, why does that suit some relatives? What are you doing? I'll close my suggestion because I don't have anything else to say about this. I think we're losing opportunities all the time in this country. Time is shortened. Opportunities are coming and we're losing them. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Just a minute, Mr President, because I would like to say something else. Because something fell to my mind a moment ago, in the last few hours, they have been formulated on journalistic websites as a 'bomb statement' for something I said yesterday in a political debate on Mr. Paulopoulos's hospitable show. I claimed that this government would not be overturned as a result of any plan of apostasy, because such a plan if it were to succeed would mean that we suddenly all lost our democratic conscience in this Chamber. Destroy plans beyond the apostates themselves, to succeed will need many people to do the wrong eyes and I am sure there are many who are not willing to do that. I believe that what was described as a declaration - a bomb was simply confirmation to the citizens that we have democracy in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. The positions of the Parliamentary representatives have also been completed. We're on our way to secondary school, and we're on our way with Mr. Georgioda. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u147	Minister, you understand how exposed you are today with two issues that have emerged which are purely political, the other not only. Things need to be clear. You have one in three notices to be cancelled and reopened, as you say. This has been the case following pressure from the entire Opposition, especially from the New Democracy in recent months. If these issues were not raised, perhaps this whole process would go ahead now and we had results that you had targeted. So on the day when you admit that the notices which were actually completed and started the interviews of the candidates, we have the end of the deadline, we have control of the dossiers, and just before the interviews, this procedure is cancelled. You should at least show a modesty, admit that we were right in the complaints we made. Nine out of fourteen Ministries involved and at least one in three notices shall be cancelled. But you, with dissatisfaction today, referred to unreasonable issues and for twenty-five minutes I did not get an answer. The second major issue which arises and which is not purely political, has other dimensions, for me and criminally evaluable, is the question of the copies of the figures from the candidates' files sent at the request of four Ministers to their Ministries. The first question is: What did the candidates have to do with the offices of the Ministers? What did the ministers want? Why did the ministers want to see who the candidates are for each Secretary-General position? Isn't that just a committee job? What right did they ask for? Question two. You said it and scared me when I heard it, that he admitted his mistake. Did the ADP admit its mistake? The AACC admitted that this was indeed at the request of Ministers and then redefined its position. However, the responsibility of the ministers who have asked for them, the legal issues that come to annul this procedure, will you, as a competent Minister, not be faced with the whole process? Aren't you going to evaluate them? Aren't you going to see the consequences? You won't see what's going on with the personal data that broke down? Aren't you going to see that all these procedures are void? No harm, no cat? Four Ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u148	What do you say, Mr. Georgioda? Names are personal data...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u149	Listen to me, it's clear what I'm saying. Four ministers - I do not know who they are, and I hope they are not about you - have all their files, copies, to be precise, of the candidates' files, and that is not a big political issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u150	Read the answer of the SAAP.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u151	I've read it very well, I took it myself. I went and took her. What does S.H.I.E.L.D. say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Georgioda, don't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u153	He says that to four Ministers he gave copies of the files. Each Minister can and knows who the candidates are, what their curriculum is, what their doctorate is, what their work experience is. Every minister knows everything. Aren't you going to cancel the procedures in these four ministers? You'll let them go, won't you? Is it possible to overcome this issue in this way and, indeed, to have the courage to say to me 'do what you want and I will pass it on to the ADP'? Is that your role as Minister? Are you the competitor of my demands to the AAP? And finally the answers from the AACC keep them in your drawer and I'm going and I'm taking them from the AACC, since two months have already answered you, while I had an ACP, didn't you give me the documents? And you have the courage today and you do not answer these very serious legal issues? There are people who have applied, there are people who have leaked their evidence. There are responsibilities and criminally evaluable. And all this serious matter you're going through with it today? It really outruns me. On the day that 1/3 of the notices are cancelled, on the day you admit your mistake in this very great process, this unprecedented mistake, I, the Minister, expected to tell me what action it will take to restore the actions of others, or - I do not know - its own omissions to restore the validity of this process, which has been devalued and morally and legally in the consciousness of everyone. You have not responded to these specific notices, which I have told you are absolutely photographic. And we are not talking about additional qualifications, we are talking about the necessary formal qualifications of notices, we are talking about cumulative conditions that are set out. You're going to get past this, aren't you? So it doesn't bother you that a minister does this? Will you let every Minister in a process that bears your responsibility - and you also invoke the administrative reform and the emancipation of the public - passes notices with such photographic provisions? Doesn't that bother you to deal with it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Tell me a little something else: How will you reopen the twenty - two invitations? Do you know that, when the notice starts, does he give rise to any claims to the participants? How will a procedure be cancelled? How are you going to reopen the invitations? I have not heard you say anything about legislation here. I think that legislation is necessary. You need to come here, tell us why they are being cancelled, and only by legislation can these notices be repeated. And, of course, you have another issue. Look at it. On 30 June it expires - in a clear and clear manner by Law No.4369 and Article 13 - the term of office of all the persons governed by public and private law, because the proceedings had to be carried out by 30 June. There was no such procedure. The term of office of the President shall expire on 30 June. And it's not an indicative deadline that date exists in the law. It's exclusive and binding. He mentions it twice. Not beyond 30 June 2018! Let me see what you're going to do with this. A little modesty, therefore, and a little recognition of the shortcomings, omissions and the purposes which this government has served and has led to this situation, which, while it is a situation that proves to be awkward, you are still talking for decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u154	The three-month coexistence you forgot about the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, such a procedure makes sense when we put it, you respond and we return, so that people can understand what is happening. You have claimed that the AACC's answer does not raise any questions at all and that it was a typically wrong one - I do not know how a formal procedure could be wrong, but that is what you said about - which had no personal data leak, because the names were simply given to four ministers. Why did you refuse to say who the four Ministers are?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u157	But I don't know, I told you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u158	You may not know that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u159	Why can't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u160	You can't know that. Now we are not honest in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u161	Madam Minister, don't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u162	You are the Minister for Administrative Reform, you are supervised by the whole process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u163	It's an independent principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u164	Come on, ladies and gentlemen, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u165	You have been informed by the AACC now officially. And be careful, you didn't answer Mr. Georganta. Because Aristotle says that, to understand whether anyone is telling truth or lying, we must put what he says in turn. Why did Mr. Georgios have to take her from the AACC? What does parliamentary control say? In fact, you are sending the question to the AACC, as you said - half the truth - and when you are answered from the AACC, you are sending this answer to the AACC with your own transfer to the Member. In this case, for some reason, Mrs Gerovasili did not send the answer to the AACC and Mr Georgios had to go to the AACC to find out the answer. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Colleague, because he was...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u167	Yeah, but let's not talk to each other. You'll answer later, Mrs. Gerovali. Why are you exterminating?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Georgiadis, don't open a dialogue. Madam Minister, you will have your second language and you will be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u169	I'm talking and I have a noise under my ear. You'll take the floor and you'll answer. This Parliament will not deprive you of it. We're not like you. But the substance remains. You've been up at the Step now, and what did you tell us the time? You said to us: 'I don't know who the four Ministers are.' Well, if even one of the people who see us believes you, what can I tell you? In fact, Mr Georgade said something else and you did not answer that either. Let's assume that what you're saying is true and that by mistake some ministers asked the AACC, without knowing that this is illegal, did the mission of the evidence. Let's just say what you're saying is true. Isn't this a mistake, this mistake at the point of departure doesn't raise issues of nullity of procedure? I'm not saying intent. I say by mistake, as you said. You didn't answer that either. What do you want us to do to believe? That four ministers, your colleagues, may well be the same - I do not know, since we do not know who these four are - made an illegal request to the AACC, the AACC did the information because it did not at first measure that this is illegal, understood it after the reactions - whoever wants to believe that - and all this, my child, all right, we go further. It is a process that is supposed to be carried out firstly with a view to transparency. Beware, the first goal of this whole story is transparency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. I would like to make two very brief comments, first of all to Mrs Gerovaci. You have come to say that there are three selected ones from the ADP and there the Minister comes as supervisors and makes control of one. We didn't say anything different. I told you before and I repeat this: would you trust me, if I were Minister, to choose one of the three? Oh, no. That's the answer. You don't trust me, because, Mrs. Gerovas, I was Minister and I remember what you said about me and all the ministers of the Samara government. You did not vote for a party, not to appoint a general secretary with a term of office! Mercy! So don't make fun of each other. As you do not trust us, so we do not trust you. You could, if you'd like, do a fair process. This will make Kyriakos Mitsotakis as Prime Minister from the beginning in the next Parliament. There will be no political intervention. The criteria will be objective. So only there will be confidence in everyone that the selected person is not for party reasons, he is not from vulcanizer, he is not uncle, cousin, brother-in-law, he is not a party executive from Moscow since his childhood to know Russian, but he is someone who really knows how to do the job. So I gather to you, saying: Do not waste time and make fun of people. These people, even if they are appointed, will lose this post, because we will repeal this law. It's over and out. Let me now say a few words about what I have heard. First of all, Mr. Golden Dawn left. I think it is worth pointing out, ladies and gentlemen, for the Minutes that from the nine minutes of the Golden Dawn speech, seven and a half minutes were insulting against the New Democracy, one-sided. I say this in order to understand a little about what is happening in this Chamber and what is really happening, what are the real political alliances in that country. Look at the time. For seven and a half minutes they said that it was all New Democracy's fault at a timely question from the New Democracy to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. With regard to what was heard by the excellent colleague of the Centro Association that he did the same, I would like to say that he is wrong. The New Democracy has never created an institution for a fixed term of general secretaries to do the same. And the reason why we didn't have time secretaries is because we had the absolute confidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u170	You appointing them! That's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u171	.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... In any case, now and because of the troika, there is the perception of a certain amount of time. However, since we are entering this new concept, it must be done at the beginning in such a way that no one can find the slightest doubt. This procedure, Minister, as you have started it, with the mistakes you have already admitted, is still going on. It is clear that it does not have the guarantees of this uncompromising procedure and it is clear that by such a procedure you cannot charge us your own party choices to the next government. This is not going to happen, and I would ask them to understand it well in the troika, but also in the Commission, because you are presenting them as the saints of the Commission. They're nothing but saints! And I'm surprised you're now permanently taking them as saints when you found them out in the Constitution until three years ago. Now you've become first friends and by the "go back, madame Merkel" you've become "adame Merkel, whatever you like"! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Principalisation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Defence of Denmark, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of Portugal and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain concerning the Multinational Cooperation for Directed Nuclear Accuracy of Air - Territorial and the impending 1st Amendment thereto’. B. Other: ‘Determination of the technical arrangement between the Ministries of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Portugal with regard to the Battle Formation, with the Participation of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Portugal’. Mr. Davakis, you're the last. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make more clarification to the honourable Minister. When we were discussing, Minister, the Mobility Bill, in my speech I had restored to you the proposal of the Open Technologies Organisation for the Digital Organogram, of which, as I understand it from your reaction, you are also well aware. You told me, then, that 'the matter is technical, but I will see it immediately in the direction of its resolution'. That's why I said nineteen months later, nothing has happened. With this proposal - and I say it again - the Open Technology Agency could within a very short time have been fully reflected in both the public and all the employees. In this case, what also exists in Law 4440/2016 is that digital organograms include officials, which has not been recorded so far. So right now, there's a complete resentment of civil servants with the organograms. It is like asking to know what happened in that committee, which Members participated in the committee - I make a like - and to reply to me that 'the House has three hundred Members and I cannot answer you'. You don't know, that's who it is. That's what I said in my first talk. That is why I said that so far nothing has been done, with the promotion of the specific organisation's proposal that I mentioned to you and then in my speech on mobility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mr. Kefaliannis, I suggest you second-guess the Minister and if you don't have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u175	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u176	Look, you know that the Minister must be closed anyway, so that you can also have a third-party right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u177	There's a trilogy for the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u178	And you might want to trilog. But you won't. Then the Minister will have to speak again. I suggest it happens that way. If you don't agree, that's fine. You may not want to trilog. You may be covered by the answers and may be given a complete picture by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, may the Minister give a second thought in the sense that I have taken the lead, and I imagine that she wants to answer what I have said and I undertake not to have a trilogy. If the Minister wants to trivialize, I'm gonna use my tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u180	If you want to talk and close, I'm in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u181	Madam Secretary, I told you I was the first to start and wait for some answers. I'm going to secondaryly, and, if there's a need for tritology, I'm gonna use my right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u182	Madam Minister, you have the floor, and after Mr. Kefaliannis' dentology, you will be closed. Mr. Kefaliannis, there's no problem. We shall proceed with the normal procedure. Madam Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Davakis, I've lost! I wanted to answer him. I'll answer him when he comes in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u184	He'll listen to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u185	Yeah. As far as digital organograms are concerned, I should like to say that they don't reflect existing staff alone. They're doing something else. They remove addresses, set up new addresses - the data has changed - and other sections have been removed, other sections are redistributed, the staff are redistributed into the new establishment plans and, of course, the number of workers in the forecast or the number can be reduced. So this is not 'I'm recording'. It's a record of how I want this particular entity to work. I accompany it with a structure assessment and also with job profiles, which are done for the first time. It is a heavy, difficult process, but it has gone very well. Of course, every body does this on its own. It could not be done by a third body for everyone. Mr President, I will avoid some of the type 'from there you have arrived', and I will avoid saying 'wave, Shoeble', 'now they are bad, because whoever agrees with us'. I'm gonna avoid saying all this. But it seems to me that - of course - it is not the first time - that the political body is making a message of opposition, then it fills it with what it needs to specialise and repeats it, regardless of the reality, regardless of what I said, of course, that it has happened with all this, but also with legislation and independent and genuine figures. In other words, various speakers referred to figures for the Greek State. I don't know where they can find them. Another says in this newspaper, elsewhere, other than journalists. I'm sorry, but the "APPROVAL" system is transparent. Anybody comes in and sees. I heard here mad figures for the Greek State in the "Apografi" system. I repeat that the system of "APPROVAL", reinforced by us, has all the categories of non-permanent staff, i.e. contractors, on the basis of where they are paid in different categories and has all the posters, who have never had them before. It says the account that the New Democracy, the PASOK etc. is setting up, anyway in common. We'll figure it out later. The number of retireds is increasing. Is it increasing in relation to what? Where did you know what you had, since you had never posted it? Who knew? We've been posting posters for the first time. Do you understand that? It was nothing before, so it increased anyway. Only in my ministry was fifty-one before the post-mortems before we entered this government. I'm practicing you how many people are now. Find it. I won't tell you that. Read the "APPROVAL" system a little. So you're saying that we have anxieties in public etc. I spoke before and said and published that the General Managers' procedure is being completed throughout the public sector. It's over in July. It's over. These general managers have been placed in crisis. In these crises from the five, the order created by the AACC to go to the oral interview, in all posts, has been selected, or the first or second in objective qualifications. Below on the list no one. The general directors in the public, the qualified ones to get into positions, do you think it was SYRIZA's, since the promotion used to be partisan criteria? He didn't go into crisis mostly. What do you think they were all those who today are general managers through this crisis? Look for yourself. That's evidence. This is the reality, regardless of the narrative of how you want to set it up, which is outrageous, of course. I do not say, use even conditions that I do not usually answer, of the type "you're cowardly, you're not". I'm not used to using such terms. All of this I disguise by silence against the characterizations. No one's gonna put it in my mouth, no matter how hard it is, because we have to keep an ethos in the political life of the country, and some of us are trying to do that. Now, how the video footage gets out on TVs, in the news releases, it's another conversation! You were doing very well on this, so there would be some tickling, say, underneath it in the meantime. The directors have been judged. I would like to inform you that there has been no single objection to the procedure, which has made it a special selection body. You did not know what the special selection body is composed of. Someone told me there are a lot of people who are with SYRIZA inside. Mr. Mavrosh is gone. He doesn't know what the ETUC is. The ETUC has nothing that is not an ASP, a Legal Council of State, a Citizen's Counselor. So, how else would anyone do that thing? And he has an expert on the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, who is the Director General of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, which I found when I entered the Ministry. It's been there for years. I didn't put him on. With other governments it has been chosen. I don't understand what you're saying. With all these narratives, then, someone is invited to prove that he is not an elephant after all. There's no way to counteract this. Only the cold indifference. I mean, don't listen to you. There's no other way. Because otherwise, man's temper is missing. It can't be done. In any case, that is the reality. I have read to you everything that has happened and what has gone on in administrative reform. The placements were like I didn't talk at all, like I didn't say anything. You can be indifferent, but you do not have the right to use false data, because we are heard by the Greek people, by some people in the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General was political. I read it from the European Commission report, so as not to say that I do. It was an option for this reform of the Greek Government. Yes, does the government today, having general secretaries appointed by each minister, have no one that wants them? Why does he have to set up a selection procedure? The system was fine if I want to do what you're accusing us of. Why didn't I leave it that way if he didn't impose it on me? I would like to answer that question. So, what we went to do with this? Today each Minister has the secretary he wants, who is both his party friend and his personal friend, and I don't know what else he is. Why do we change that since the memorandum has not imposed on us? Something we don't want to talk about? Can't you see something? So we'll change it. When you become a government - if you ever become, I don't see it - do what you understand where, I repeat, you will anyway. Now you are threatening us, saying 'we will abolish it', 'we will fire them.' You're looking to find a discharge. He's not Mitsotakis today to fire. When it was, you fired. You have a obsession with dismissal. You want something to fire. Let them go. What are you saying this threateningly?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u186	Will you answer my questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u187	I've answered four times so far, Mr. Georgioda. You don't know how to read the notices. You can't hear what I'm saying. That's where I want to end up. I can explain that there are molecules. It says, "Five years of previous service desirable" and makes the other application with two years of pre-service.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u188	I said it was necessary. I'm not lying. They're necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Georganta, you're not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u190	They're necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u191	Come on, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u192	Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u193	Read the Minutes. That's why I testified it. You guys are...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u194	Get the characterization back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Georgioda, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u196	I'm not taking him back. Read the Minutes to see whether they are additives or necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u197	Recall, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u198	No, I don't. Let's read the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Georgioda, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u200	You hear there, "they're additives"! It is necessary to qualify for these two notices.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Georgioda, I can yell harder. Please. Please. A little respect! And these expressions are missing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Georgioda, what do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u203	I submitted two notices in the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u204	Yes, but you said an expression, which was offensive to the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u205	When he tells me it's inaccurate what I'm saying, the one who says it's inaccurate what it is? What does he say about me? Read the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u206	Look, look, there are expressions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u207	Read the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u208	We must respect colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u209	In the Minutes there are the notices I have submitted. I'm talking about the necessary qualifications. I'm not talking about additives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u210	You don't sound. Let's open the microphone. But we cannot get into this process. The Minister's not even finished. At the moment, however, I would ask you to withdraw the insulting word you have said to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u211	Whoever's yelling more...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u212	From that point on, you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u213	I don't know if it gets any points in New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u214	Don't open a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I would like to say something. What was said by the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u216	You've interrupted the Minister. We can't get into this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u217	Why does it take the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u218	The Minister said I was lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u219	If you intend to withdraw...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u220	If he withdraws what the Minister said, I will also withdraw. He said I'm actually lying about additives. I'm not talking about additives. I'm talking about necessary qualifications. Let's both call it back. What am I supposed to call back? The lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u221	The word you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u222	If he withdraws, I'll call it back. That's how it has to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u223	It is another point to say that 'you are lying' in general and another to say 'you are...'. You know, as a word, it's more offensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u224	Like he said, it's about the notices I filed. I put it in the Minutes. I'm not getting anything behind what I testified to in the Minutes. That's the way the notices are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u225	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Georgiod, I asked you, if you wish, to withdraw. From there on, we don't have a dialogue. You don't want to withdraw...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u227	What the Minister said about the two notices is not accurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u228	Let the Minister finish her speech, because you have interrupted...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u229	What the Minister said about the two notices is not accurate. The two notices refer to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u230	Mr. President, does he have the floor? Respect the procedures a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Georgiod, please. Madam Minister, I apologise. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, the microphones are closed when we do not want the procedure to be broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u233	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u234	I'm much cooler. I didn't name you. I've talked about inaccurate evidence, and I'm gonna avoid making it now, even though it would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u235	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u236	No, she doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Georgioda, the Minister is speaking. You don't have the floor. The Minister will finish and we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u238	So I said - and I addressed it to many speakers, I did not address Mr Georgiod personally - that they do not know how to read notices, they do not hear what we say, they do not follow the law on how it goes and they do not see the AACC how it makes mobilisations. I said that any notice, based on pre-service, would put it on-off, that is to say, excluding participation, is the ones who will leave and be re-opened. That's what I said. With the reopening, the other person will enter, regardless of whether he had said desirable qualifications five years or twenty years or what he said, and will say: "From one year of service in an administrative position. Accepted’. And it comes the candidate, who has two years, the other who has eight years and the other who has twenty years. Who wins molecules? The one who's had twenty years. This was announced and it's also on the ASPI website. It's not that molecule secret. But that takes a little brain to read it and connect it to the notice. How do we do it? That's why I'm saying you're all talking in the air with narratives that you've made before, but unheard of. Anyway... I hear we're drugizing the next government. I said in my speech before that one attempted to mine a next government through public administration, Mr Mitsotakis in December 2014. No one ever answers that. And that's because there would be elections then and government would be out of SYRIZA. That night, therefore, all government directors were chosen to drugize the next government. We made a law. Assuming you will rule, change the law and do what you think you will, because you will be empowered by the Greek people. We now have authorisation from the Greek people and we will do that. And threats to them we do not accept! And we're not afraid of you as you understand. The footage we all know how to make it to be in the news releases. But be substantial at last! Let's not be. I said in my speech before how we have upgraded the role of ASAP in all procedures and how the SAAP was an important reform, the role of which we continuously upgrade. You're not watching that. Independent Authority: The Supervising Ministry does not control the work of the AACC. It is an independent authority of the AACC, an independent constitutional authority. The Ministry has no right to control what ASA is doing. You know, but on purpose you say the other thing, because you're legal. No one has the right to intervene there. Only through justice can he go. Only justice has that right. So all you're saying is, you know very well that it's not the case, what I have to do against the AACC. You're talking about it like that, so you can talk about it. "Vaterlo, the Greek-French cooperation"! We heard that too! Mr. Georgiod, is this a national attitude? Are we saying to the Greek Parliament 'Vaterlos the Greek French cooperation'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u239	Public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u240	You said, 'Waterloo Greek cooperation'. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u241	Public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u242	Excuse me. Public administration. You really escape and lose the measure of the national, of what SYRIZA is, of what a law is and that the law changes. Laws change and illustrate the command that the Greek people have given to the ruler. That's what the law does. Tender Assessment Criteria: Definitely an HEI, definitely a graduate, five to twenty years of minimum work experience in a position with relevance and in a management-related position, at least knowledge of a European language. These are the selection criteria. Behind all this, we've hidden a dozen of our own. Evidently some - and ours - will also be qualified. It was not our objective, however, because, as I said, we would have kept the system as it stands. We didn't have that target. Why change it and trouble with contests, with timely questions here, etc.Huh? What's the trouble?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u243	Madam Minister, you have exhausted the time of your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u244	We want to give people with qualifications to go ahead with the administration hierarchy and do so. It is also - and I am closing down, Mr President - that the notices are not referred to as meritful or not. We must make proper use of the Greek language. It's a pitiful crisis, not the proclamation. When the crises are over, let's talk about whether they're pragmatic or not. Do you know a remarkable proclamation? Is that a Greek language? But in the awkwardness and rush to say everything, you say whatever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Minister. Mr Georgioda, if you want to withdraw, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u246	After clarifying the Minister's statement that her previous report did not concern me personally, I am of course withdrawing. However, as has been said, I thought it was about my own documents, which I tabled in the Minutes. It was generally referred to Members, he said it was not about me, I accept it and I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u247	He's clear. Thank you very much for the cooperation. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Before replying to the Minister, I would like to make a few comments on something said by the Parliamentary Representatives of the Independent Greeks and of SYRIZA. Mrs Kozobol said that we are supposed to recognize the fact that they are different. We don't recognize that you're different. What we told you is that when you were in the opposition you had as your flag, among other things, that when you came to the government, you would apply merital procedures. That's what we said. And as we have seen from the evidence, which we have given you through the timely question, this is not the case. This is to be clarified. Also, you wondered how a photographic device is, which has attracted about seven thousand candidates. What we have explained to you is: what you have done - and we have proved it through the specific notices that have completely different features, in completely different positions, but in some who should have the prerequisites uniform - is that you obviously had in mind beforehand - as a government I mean - the candidates you would like to see in these positions and adapt these features to their faces. You will obviously attract some others, but there is always the wrong of some procedures, so that even someone, who may have more formal qualifications, can get through it by other procedures. In fact, it is no coincidence that as regards the selection of directors-general, the procedure has been amended four times. And this has to be recorded so that the Greek people know. It was amended four times, just to select those who were perhaps six or seven in a row and others who had more formal qualifications, perhaps you exceeded them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u249	Give me the evidence. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u250	Don't open a dialogue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u251	I'm asking to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u252	Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully. At least I didn't interrupt you. You have the right to tritology. Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u253	Indicate...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u254	Mrs. Kozobol, don't interrupt me. You were protesting before the Minister was interrupted and now you're doing the same thing. I would like to finish, and the Minister will have all the time to answer. I heard Mr Katsiki saying that a post of the "Pressors Newspaper" had an article saying that the Samara government and the previous governments were in general anxieties. I have given concrete information, which I shall again quote in response to the Minister, because she has not answered the particulars I have submitted to her. Instead, Mr Katsikis mentioned a newspaper of the authors' newspaper. I think that everyone can make their judgment and freely judge whether anyone, who quotes figures, is more right than someone who simply quotes a post of the authors' newspaper. He also made another observation that "we do not have irreversible values as Independent Greeks". Okay, that's what I think has already been judged by the Greek people. It is the party which, from the antimony, went to the memorial, are those who said they would never give the term "Macedonia" and actually co-signed the Ambassadors' agreement. So at least it's funny - politically funny, so that there's no misunderstanding - to talk about inappropriate values. I'm coming to the Minister's. Madam Minister, I have given you some information and at least expected me to hear some answers. I repeat them and tell me which of them is true. Are there or not a hundred and twenty new structures of legal persons and secretaries in your own government? Eighty-six of these hundred and twenty-one new structures - two-thirds - have a lack of precise staff, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u255	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u256	They do not provide for the exact number of staff to be included in these structures. In other words, a general secretariat is created, a legal person is created and you do not say that this legal person will have thirty or twenty-five organic positions. Look at that. We counted that of the hundreds of eighteen laws you have brought as a government, only fifty-five - that is, under half - have an estimate of expenditure. Look at that, too. Did you or did you not increase by twenty thousand contractors, and did that figure even exceed a hundred thousand? I'm talking about the emergency workers. I told you certain numbers. In December 2014 he was seventy-three thousand, in February 2018 he was a hundred twenty-seven thousand. Does Mr. Tsipras, the Greek Prime Minister, have forty-two structures for his support right now, including a Vice-President, three Ministers of State and a State Secretary, yes or no? In particular, I refer to specific figures, so that we do not talk here about ideas. Also, the number of secretaries increased from sixty-five to fifty-six? Watch out, a hundred and fifty-six in sixteen ministries. On average, that is to say, you need as a government - so that you can understand it from the Communism - ten secretaries per Ministry to do your job. That's a certain number, Minister. The poster, who you said there is no evidence, rose from a thousand eight hundred eighty-eight in about two and a half thousand? Because there's evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u257	In relation to what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u258	In relation to the previous government. Of course, there was a record, a thousand eighty-eighty-eighty and right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u259	From us there's a record, not from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u260	...is about two and a half thousand. You'll see, Minister, in your answer. You said - I heard it in your speech and I expected you to say it - that there were no objections to the choice of directors. I submit not only that there have been objections, but that applications for annulment have also been made before the Board of Appeal. for this process. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You also did not answer Mr Georgioda - if I have listened well, correct me - because it was - it says - an oral question, it was a timely question. I am also presenting you with a question from Mr Georgiotta from 26-3-2018, which is a question and a request for documents, which has not been answered. While the document came to your ministry, as Mr Georgiodakis said, you kept it in your drawer. This question three months now remains unanswered. And I think that you have also done a service misconduct here, because while the ADP sent you the document with the answers, you - as you had to - did not pass it on to the Greek Parliament so that the Member could get a reply. I would therefore like to see a concrete response to that. And I give you the question from Mr Georgada, which is neither a timely question - an oral question as you said - nor a timely question. It is a written question and a request for documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am closing with two very brief remarks. I was listening to you constantly stir a candy - you will allow me - for what Mr Mitsotakis has done in the Ministry. I would remind you that Mr Katrugalos, Minister of your Government, was the one who froze the specific notices in order, obviously, to recruit heterogeneous people. Let me remind you that when we voted for Law 4275/2014, the notices came out two months later and not two years later, as you did. And the notices that Mr Katrugalos froze - I repeat - only to be recruited on your own days, inferior. So do not remake well-known issues when we know very well the way they used to be. I close with a question: Do you have any evidence of how many of the current secretaries, experts, sectoral and administrative have applied for these notices. I would also like an answer to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Kefaliannis, no, we didn't create these agencies you're talking about. I don't know which file you're getting from. Do you see ELSTAT's files? I don't think it's that way. How many bodies did you talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u263	One hundred and twenty-one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u264	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u265	How many have you created? Say the numbers you remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u266	I remember two, three. We set up two new ministries, so secretaries. We did that. We set up the Department of Digital Policy. I cannot imagine that in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, at the time of the digital economy, the country will not have a digital policy ministry. Nor can you argue that it has become a Ministry of Migration Policy in the greatest refugee crisis that we have seen in recent years. There, of course, were other structures. We didn't say no. But it was necessary and we did it. But because we wanted to be fun, no, we didn't recommend anything. We have much fewer posters than the governments, who are paid half of the money over time. And you know very well how much a poster works about what he's getting paid for. The great numbers of thousands don't exist. You know that. Of course, our aim is not to create institutions. We have no such goal, no such reason. It's all recorded, it's transparent, it's in ELSTAT's file and the rest at the Ministry. Public enlargement. Regular staff of the government. Numbers: Five hundred sixty-sixty-six thousand six hundred in March 2018. How many were there before? Just the same and, indeed, a few hundred less now than last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u267	Ten thousand less.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u268	Ten thousand less. Contractors. No, we didn't raise the contractors. These are all in the 'Inventory'. What is paid today by the Greek State, if it is not in the "Acknowledgement" does not pay for it by the General Accounting Office of the State. That's the way it is today. There is no hiding place that is in any way rewarded by the Greek State. There isn't. They're private law...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u269	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u270	We say it is a state budget, the bodies that are in the general government register. That's what we're talking about. We don't care about the private. It's not a state thing, when it's a self-financed one. Everything that exists in the general government is within the platform. The contractors, then, did not increase them. Contractors shall be stable. We've never exceeded the agreed memorial. I don't know where you get that 100 thousand. There aren't any of these. They never existed in three years. I don't know where you got them. The state budget emergency staff are forty - nine thousand percent eighty in a specific month. I remind you that in the emergency, there is always a change based on the season. It rises slightly in the summer, drops in winter. The limitation we are following is that the average does not exceed forty-seven thousand per year. At this point in time the largest recorded was forty thousand. And the fixed time that is hourly, co-financed NSRF, rewards etc., is thirty-three thousand nine hundred forty. And that's a stable number. Of course, if we have more ESDP projects we may have more here. But that's not a state budget. Those are the numbers. All the other things that are heard in this Chamber I don't know where they are. Look at your sources so we can agree on a basis. I was too late to answer the question, yes, because the procedures with the notices were over. We started to see if what you're saying is there or not there. We had seen a few problems, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u271	You did not reply to the written statement, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u272	I did not answer why we had not resolved the matter yet, so I did not answer it. I had nothing to hide. Did I have any reason to hide the answer to the AAP, which you obviously had the right to take? The teams were formed, the study was done, that took some time. And when we know exactly what's happening to us, I'm here talking and we can talk and as much as you want to talk about any other questions. There was no intention of concealing anything from the process. Besides, it's a transparent process, what should we hide? However, it will have a sense to discuss the final crisis in this Chamber again. Mr. Kefaliannis, nothing has changed, no time at all, the process of directors-general. No time has changed, not four times. None at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u273	We'll have a chance to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u274	With a law, an instrument, ASP, makes all options, makes the ranking list. From the ranking list he gets the selection instrument that will make oral interviews, the five and goes ahead. And from these five, as I told you, no one has been chosen under the first and second. That's the reality. There are no things you're talking about. What you're saying doesn't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u275	The debate on the number 19/13/2-3-2018 topical and urgent question is closed: "With photographic albums from SYRIZA - ANEL, the public executives are like". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-29-S1-commons.u276	With the consent of the House at 14.05p., the sitting for the next Monday, July 2, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, Parliament's scrutiny: a topical and urgent debate.
