ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-11-2018, the minutes of the L' Session, of Wednesday 21 November 2018 concerning the vote in the whole draft law: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2016/1148/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems throughout the Union and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Mrs Anastasia (Natasa) Gara, MP Evros, the following:]] A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 23 November 2018. 'COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE (Articles 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 157/2/15-11-2018 topical question by the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "Agency in the Universities". A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 163/19-11-2018, a timely question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr. Yiannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Increase of the line for the supply of wood from the inhabitants of the mountainous settlements of the Prefecture of Florina and timely disbursement to the Forest Directorates". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 160-19-11-2018 by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR M. Michael Jeleigh to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The situation of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)". 3. Under No 148/12-11-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-participatory criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience." 4. The 117/30-10-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of State, on the subject: “At the immediate treatment of the problems of Argolida's export company GERFA - G.N. Francesco - two thousand producers, four hundred and seven hundred workers in the air." 5. The question by No 121/1-11-2018 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts". 6. The Question No 74/16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "The planning for maritime education". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 53/11-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG mining of hydrocarbons and natural gas’. 8. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish Challenge continues in the Aegean". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Gregorios Stogiannidis to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Amendment to Article 116 of Law 4495/2017, concerning additions or modifications that have been made to traditional settlements such as the old city and the Samakov region in Xanthi". In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of nine students and students and four of their school attendants from the 7th Kavala High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Finally, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Airports Obligations on Passenger Records - adaptation of legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/681.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First, let me announce the timely questions that will not be discussed. The third, with number 120/1-11-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje Lake becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement", will not be discussed. The fourth under number 75/16-10-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The fifth, with number 1/1-10-2018, topical question for the Second cycle of the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonian Struggle and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. The first under number 161/19-11-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "At a slow pace, significant infrastructure projects in Magnesia will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, Christos Spirtzis. Cause, workload. The second question under number 169/20-11-2018 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEGROGlou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Confronting impacts on the construction and operation of the airport in Kastelis - Need for works and reward benefits for the region", will also not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of Mr. Christos Spirtzis. Cause, workload. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the three topical questions that will be discussed. The second question, with No 124/5-11-2018, is the second question of the Greek MP, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "In the last posts in the European Union Greece in poverty and child poverty." The Deputy Minister of Labour present will answer Mr. Theanos Fotou. Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the welfare indicators and the level of political and social culture of a country are in line with the efficiency of this country in combating poverty. October 17, 2018, World Day for the Elimination of Poverty and Social Exclusion, finds Greece again in the third worst place in the European Union, according to the data published by EUROSTAT recently. According to this, in 2017, 34.8% of the population, equivalent to 3.7 million people, lived in poverty or social exclusion, while in the European Union as a whole, the figure is 20.3%. Accordingly, EUROSTAT's report on child poverty for 2016 showed that Greece shows the third highest risk rate behind Bulgaria and Romania alone, while the average in the European Union was 24.6%. There is a recent report by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, the title of which is 'Fight against child poverty: an issue relating to fundamental rights'. There are solutions proposed, namely that the European Union and the Member States of the European Union could deal with this issue. There are measures, such as tightening laws and policies, establishing child guarantee programmes, linking European Union funding to Member States with plans to reduce child poverty, assessing the budgets and policies of Member States on the basis of child poverty and, of course, a number of other measures which, especially for very sensitive social and, if you like, national issues of child poverty, have some solutions. Because the government - and also through you - claims to have achieved a huge fall in poverty - and in child poverty - although the reality, in my view, and the evidence that I have given you disguise it, I would like to ask you how this government's claim to the huge fall in poverty is haunted and, of course, what positions the Government has put forward at European level on the policies to combat poverty and what financial programmes the European Union has used to achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u5	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u6	Mr Kalafatis, yesterday we tabled the first Memorandum of Understanding in Parliament without austerity measures and with increased social expenditure for 2019. Increased social costs are directly related to your timely question. In other words, without them poverty does not fall, either the poverty of the population or the poverty of children. Increased social costs! You call them 'an election corollary and allowances'. That is why, as I will prove with numbers immediately, even the times before the crisis you have been ruling, the times of growth, poverty in Greece and child poverty have had the highest rates in Europe. This is the core of your ideological and political positions. Poverty at 28.1% in 2008, Mr. Kalafatis. In other words, more than one in four Greeks was poor during the growth period, Mr. Kalafatis. That is what you have done and that is what you want to repeat. We come out firmly of the great tragedy of the poverty of the Greek people. He lost 30% to 40% of his income - these are known - as after war. There you have reached the situation, which is why the country has become poor. Now, we are seriously facing the poverty of the country, without triumphs - we have never said that we have a huge fall in poverty and child poverty - and not by smuggling or selective use of numbers. If you really wish, here today to draw some conclusions and lessons. So you say that in 2017, 34.8% of the population, corresponding to three million seven hundred thousands of citizens, was at risk of poverty. Watch out for some, risk of poverty! But you forgot that in 2014 36%, that is, three million eighty-four thousand citizens - two hundred thousand citizens more than in 2017 - were at risk of poverty. We don't triumph, but it was two thousand more in your day. And there is no doubt that all the indicators of ELSTAT and EUROSTAT for poverty fall in 2017, compared to those you delivered us. The material deprivation of the population will be reduced for the first time since 2019 by 1.3%. The physical deprivation for the child in 2017 shows a 2.9% reduction first time after 2009 since the continuous dramatic increases of these percentages began. Unemployment has declined since 27.5% in 2015, at 18.9% now. We have managed to reverse this path of social dissolution. How did that happen? I'll tell you how this happened. Firstly, we have spent for the first time since the start of the crisis of EUR 1,600 000 for poverty, when you had not given for five years a single euro for poverty and extreme poverty. Secondly, this year's poverty rates are lower than they were in 2008. I mean, before the crisis. And why am I saying that? Because these percentages you read in 2017 are with incomes of 2016. That is, what we have achieved, we have achieved it with our policies only two years, 2015 and 2016. I inform you that when ELSTAT's 2019 income data comes in, you will see that we have thrown poverty and child poverty below 2008 levels and these are the simulations that we have done. Finally, we have more than doubled all the budgets we have received for welfare, of course. But you need to study the indicators of child poverty a little more carefully. You will see that 2012 is 26.9%, 2015 is 26.6% and 2017 is 24.5%. I mean, two units down. Perhaps you did not notice that there are larger rates of child poverty than we do Italy, 28.3% in 2017. With this evidence, you didn't read it all. Of course Spain, 28.3% and Italy 26.4%. As you perhaps did not notice that before the crisis, child poverty was 23%. What does all this mean? First, that child poverty in Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u7	Madam Secretary, we're not going to have a lecture. Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u8	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u9	In the second place, you'll say the rest. Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you are not having fun with my concerns or having responded to the substance of the matter. Firstly, you basically did not question the evidence I gave you about child poverty, which was 2016. You mentioned other things to me, 2017. Secondly, there is clearly a great ideological difference: you have chosen to make a real distribution of poverty. You're making the bourgeoisie negligent. The people who represent the urban world, the bourgeoisie, you bring them down with intense overtaxation, you squash the poverty front, and you do a donation policy, effectively sharing miserable poverty, which is the result of your own policy. In fact, for four years you have been taking ten of the citizens and returning two of them. And you want them to be happy too. You're actually making the poorer. That's what you're doing. Thirdly, you yourself said that a few years ago - eight to ten years ago - there was one in four to the poverty line. It turns out here he's one in three on the poverty line. And, of course, I have spoken to you and I am monitoring you on the effectiveness you should have had in this crucial issue of poverty. There are here elements of EUROSTAT 2017, which show, Minister, that while social transfers, essentially social benefits, on average in the Member States of the European Union, have led to a reduction of 1/3 of people living on the poverty line, in Greece of your own government SYRIZA - ANEL this figure has only reached 15.8%, so that our country is classified as the last position in the relevant table. And since you referred to the principle of your position in the budget, I would like to say to you: the Government, Minister, has chosen as a tool for fiscal policy the creation of surpluses. They are these "blooded surpluses" said by the Prime Minister when he was not a prime minister and he was in the position of counterpopulation. In fact, the government is proud of this because it is using extremist overtaxes and contributions that are actually undermining the country's development perspective. So it turns out through the information I have given you, that we are last in this area, that even though you are depriving yourself of some kind of overtaxation from the citizens - in other words, from the citizens - they don't get any place if you get back into specific categories. That's why we're last on this charge. So there is a great question here about the thinking of your policy in general and, of course, about the effectiveness, which I believe - it is also demonstrated by the elements I have - that it is at very low levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you can finish what you wanted to say with your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kalafatis, you didn't notice some things I said. You mentioned social transfers. Social transfers, as you know, Mr Kalafatis, are how much they affect the poverty index the money you give for the welfare, the money you give for the benefits - what you say 'blockage' - the money you give for social protection. And what do you think? Because you still read it halfway through. You say that compared to 2009, which was the average of Greece or, to say it better, with what you know, in 2014, with the Samara government, the average of Greece in Europe is less than 19.1 points. That's the difference. What is the difference from 2017, based on the information you have read? Why don't you read it all. The difference is 16.6. Understand? Why? Because we're transferring social costs. How do we do it? You also didn't read the rest. Because child poverty in Greece, as I told you, was very great and the eras of growth. Because growth, unfortunately, does not mean alleviating or eliminating social inequalities. It may mean exacerbation - that's what you did - if you apply neoliberal policies that favour few and not many. That is what you have implemented. That's what you want to repeat. I explained to you what is happening in Italy and Spain and how much higher rates of child poverty they have than we do. Have you wondered why? Because the social welfare model of the countries of the South - Spain, Italy, Portugal and we - has common characteristics. It's a few transfers. Congenital poverty indicators, this is what all these states - child poverty, unemployment, etc. - and parallel indices in demographics. All together is one thing. This is the lesson we have learned, and that is why we change the welfare model, because it is a poor model in services, without horizontal benefits, which favours customer relations and corruption. It's a model of antiproductive, uninvesting, anti-developmental. That's what you have. Because you do not want to hear the North Europeans saying that every euro at social costs has a positive growth rate, namely returning to the economy by 1.3 or 1.6. You give 1, and you get 1,6 in development. That is why we raised the money for the child within a terrible three-year period of 800 million that we received to 1 billion 300 million, that is 500 million more. Because we believe that this is the only way the country can go forward. That's growth. Development is not all your population to be in poverty, most of them, and few to be fruitful of this infamous wealth. That's what you've done, that's what you're claiming, that's what we'll reverse. We proceed to 10 flagic actions for the child. We're changing the life of the child, because we're changing the welfare model with horizontal measures, Mr. President, and I know you know it. In other words, we change the benefits. We've given a billion. Within a year we changed family allowances, resulting from where the allowances were received by eight hundred thousand families, today they get from 40 euros, 70 euros of child - digitally - all of which increased by 100 thousand families. Of a million four hundred thousand children, a million five hundred fifty children. From where they got eighty thousand vouchers in infants, now they get a hundred twenty - seven thousand vouchers. We're increasing baby-care positions. Thirdly, we are currently giving to the hundreds of fifty-three thousand school meals every day for all children, poorly and non-poor, a measure of great politics, which seems to have results. Because the school leak has stopped. We have extremely small sums, from the smaller to the European Union, of a school leak. You didn't see that. There's 6% school leak in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u13	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u14	We're doing the entire provision of digital services to stop clientele relations. That's exactly what we're doing. Today we are making great changes, where Europe is asking us for our advice and changing its poverty policies. I'll tell you the following simple thing. The solidarity card that we gave for the first two years, 2015-2016, is now, for the next few years, a model for the European Union for the TBR. That's how they give, with dignity. We're giving food packages. Second, from our digital system at the CRL...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u15	Madam Minister, you have to close down. Finish this. Say that thought and finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u16	I can't make it, Mr. President. He's asking me to say what we've done. Ten meters of protection we've taken. Do I have time to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u17	Yeah, but look at the time. The timely question is a timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u18	Electronic file for the disabled, dismantling 46 euros, every month to be paid, dehydration, quality program in Lehana, 15 million for...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u19	You'll tell that to the budget when you talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u20	Good, Mr. President. I'd have a lot to tell you, Mr. Kalafatis. Come on, let's talk about it. It is a sin not to understand our differences. It's a sin. Maybe we'll both know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u21	Good. We move on to the next up-to-date questions. The other two will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. The first question will be discussed under No 162/19-11-2018 in the second cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: ‘Applying to extend the grant of extra-institutional allowance’. Mr Colleagues, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, last July I was very pleased to see - because I had also raised this with my question - to legislate to extend the extra-institutional allowance of v.1140/1981, a benefit which the sufferers are entitled to, and I stress this, and very serious illnesses and which require continuous assistance from another person. This allowance was, therefore, extended - as referred to in Article 56 of Law 4554/2018 - to those suffering from diseases which, in the opinion of the appropriate health committee, bear the same form of disability as those diseases. We thought that this provision restored an injustice against our fellow citizens who had been excluded from the grant of the extra-institutional allowance. Unfortunately, however, Minister, this very positive prediction, this possibility of giving the extra-institutional allowance to other fellow citizens who need it does not apply. That is for two reasons. Because there are doctors in the CSR committees who do not even know the provision for expansion and those who know it are hesitant to give positive opinions, because they do not want to take the responsibility of judging themselves. So, Minister, the purpose of the legislature is not, in fact, to provide more people with the promotional provision. I would like to mention, as an example, two recent decisions. One on October 2, 2018, where they were judged by our committee of citizens. The decision states: ‘final stage anomaly assistance, chronic clinical activity with extensive muscle atrophystrophy and undertreat and extra-institutional stiffness. It does not show paratraliplasm and does not fall within the scope of the regulation of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Adopted by the Commission on 18 December. I am tabling them in the Minutes too, in order to give a clear and definitive solution to this. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Yoyakas, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the problem, Minister, is that it can be solved in a very simple way, with a clearing circular to the body of specialist doctors involved in the CEDEFOP committees, so as to identify the diseases that can bring about the same form of disability as quadruple or grievance and for which the extra-institutional allowance can be granted. It is a solution that can work quickly, comforting many of our fellow people who need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Yoyakas, in July we did vote for this provision. In August the doctors' committees did not work to testify to the conditions for granting this allowance. You see that as an accident, because in October, November, the decisions have not yet been taken, because the decision-making after the disability has been certified, where there is a procedure of at least two months' time, also wants to be dealt with. The accident should therefore be seen in the light of the fact that since 1987, i.e. thirty years ago, the Council of State pointed out this lack, namely that the extra-institutional allowance does not extend. There are six decisions of the Council of State in '87, '88, '89 and '2009, periods of prosperity for the country and there has never been such an initiative, unfortunately, by governments, when the Council of State pointed out the need for such a legislative initiative. I'm afraid so. And you say 'unfortunately' that since September, October, no benefits were paid. Make a comparison of responsibility to see what the accident was. The accident is that we had many years of silenced governments, abstained, indifferent. Therefore, let us put things in turn and in place, assessing, as with responsibility, the omissions of the state against our fellow citizens who have problems. It is the doctors responsible who are asked to judge and the doctors responsible from their students have been taught to have the responsibility for medical opinion and thus have to act. What kind of argument is this, telling me they're afraid to take responsibility? I didn't get it. From the time of Hippocrates this is a term in the life of the physician, who is a sacred person, when he intervenes for the life of another fellowman and for the fate of his health. I understand the role of doctors. What does it mean they can't take responsibility? Do you say it or do they say that they deny responsibility? Of course, it is not an argument that they are not aware of the provision. We cannot tell this here in Parliament that the doctors do not know the provision. Don't we know that for every citizen the order is known? Since the time of Solon of Athenian, Ignorance of law is still not forgiven since these provisions are published. That is why there is the Official Journal of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u26	Unfortunately, the Minister, rather than comprehending the attempt to give some solutions to this issue, once again tried to make a policy. Minister, I have not come to tell you what has happened since 1987. I came to see today, to be able to solve problems of everyday life, problems with fellow humans, problems with fellow doctors. Let me tell you that I'm a doctor, and I have a picture of what's going on in the committees. Mr Petropoulou, unfortunately, they are afraid to decide and not all have received the provision, because they are not sitting here looking. Are you serious? Do you know all about it? You don't know them. I don't even know all the provisions we're voting on in here. It is not possible for a doctor to know what is being voted on in the Greek Parliament. From there on, however, this provision was not sent to the Special Doctors' Body. It was sent to competent administrative agencies, but not to the Special Body of Doctors. I have presented a recent decision to you, Mr. Petropoule, since 2-10, while the circular has come out of 2-9, a month earlier. We have not asked you to comment on the fact that no solution can be found. A solution can be found, but a greater specialization is needed. It is right that you, as legislator, have given them a simple one so that they can decide and even have the power to give solutions on different occasions, but, in fact, this thing has blocked them and cannot give real solutions. When I appreciate it, it would be useful to specialize in some conditions, so that the doctors of the Special Corps can also make better decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Yoyaka, your urge to identify the diseases I really listen to with interest. If that is the New Democracy proposal, I am not opposed to looking into proposals and thoughts if they serve better the functioning of the committees. Of course, I must stress that the doctors we are talking about and who need to know about are doctors who have the competence and status of doctors - members of committees providing disability advice. He's not every doctor who can't know everything. They're the doctors who are paid to participate in committees and they're from lucky doctors because they have an income from this job, and I don't think it's a price to say that these doctors are ignoring their duties. Obviously it is an issue, and in cases where mistaken opinions have occurred, there is the possibility of a second crisis by means of an appeal to re-evaluate the issue. I'll watch if there are any bad applications.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u29	I gave you the decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u30	We will see, if there are bad applications, but not to intervene as State Secretary in the work of doctors. Don't ask me to replace doctors, because then we'll do other things, and you'll tell me that we're probably favouring myself with rosphetti by giving money to those who don't deserve it, if the doctor says 'no'. So, what do you want me to do? To say, "give where do you think we should not get it?" What exactly do you propose? However, I repeat your proposal to limit - because this is your proposal -...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u31	We need to specialize in the conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u32	Uh, yeah, restraining. It's limited to mentioning the conditions. We will also look at doctors, with their experience, because, for the first time, this provision comes in and, in the application of what is new, it can give an experience and find someone and issues that they need to identify in another way. We'll do that, too. I assure you that we will do so, because we too really want to get the extra-institutional allowance for those who really need such an extra-institutional allowance. Because sometimes in people's lives you know that this is a considerable amount of benefit and we should prevent thoughts from being favoured without the right to such an allowance. That is why we must be careful and in that sense I hear your proposal to limit very specifically the cases where the extra-institutional allowance is granted. I repeat, we should limit, as you say very specifically, by listing these cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u33	We need to specialize.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u34	I can hear it. We'll see if we do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u35	Good. We continue with our first question with the number 2117/3-10-2018 question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr.Giannis Delis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Security of Popular Peoples Sales after the 1-5-2014 date of the contract granting the exclusive right to produce, operate, circulate, view and manage the State People's Lots to a private person". Mr. Delia, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is the same question, Minister, that has been tabled twice so far and has not been answered by your ministry. We have made an application, the day before yesterday, to be discussed with the timely process, and we hope that something will come out of it today, although the silence of your ministry does not allow us much optimism. The issue concerns lottery and insurance, or rather non-insurance and, more specifically, lottery people in northern Greece. There's a station date. It's May 1, 2014. From that date on, the responsibility for the production, operation, circulation and management of state-of-the-art lotteries will be assumed by a private company, the company "ELLINIKA S.A.". With an urgent circular of the IKA in 2016, it informs all its branches of Article 29 of Law No.4331 that was passed last year in 2015 and of the ministerial decision made on the basis of this law. It's a decision that came out in October 2016. It therefore informs this IKA circular of all its branches and annexes of the new way of insurance for folk lottery sellers, i.e. after the privatisation of state-owned lotteries. It defines in particular the employer's contribution to 1% of sales, the employee's contribution to 12% and something which will, of course, be provided through the insurance cooperatives in IKA. Of course, this Ministerial Decision expressly speaks of the compulsory insurance of lottery workers, since they are members of insurance cooperatives. There's the button. On the basis of all these decisions and the law I have described before, in order to become a lottery member of this insurance cooperative, it should be proposed beforehand by the Director of the IKA local branch, with the agreement of a committee composed of a representative of IKA, a representative of the insurance cooperative and a dealer's representative. This committee, Minister, as you know, in northern Greece, in Thessaloniki, has not been convened. And because of this fact, local services there and the insurance cooperative do not insure lotteries in Thessaloniki and across northern Greece. We would like to know from you what you intend to do to set up this committee, so that the lottery insurance procedure can be started which is still uninsured and, of course, that the date of the late submission of detailed periodic declarations is extended so that those insured are not charged with extra expenses. We will listen with great interest to your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Delia, my answer is very simple. All of them will be insured. I'll explain how. That committee shall be an administrative body. His failure to form because of his unwillingness or inaction or intentionalness - and I think that the latter is the right - non-representation of the company "ELELANDA LONGIA S.A." creates a legal obligation to adopt a decision now by the management body that is to be proposed by the management board of EVKA to ensure that these people have been insured since they submitted their application and, indeed, retroactively. It is true that there are no increments, because it is not their fault. I have been instructed everywhere to investigate each case, if it is in the same condition and all those who have applied and who have been in the same situation will have to be retroactively insured since they have submitted their application.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u40	In your reply, Minister, you said they would be insured. You forgot to tell us how to do this. Because what is provided for by the law is very specific. It says that it is by administrative decision of the local director of the CCI, after having consulted the committee concerned. Will you set up the committee? Will you oblige the concessionaire to finally send his representative to this committee to initiate the procedure? How are you gonna do that? How? Or will you send a circular to the local director of the IKA that he has the right to give an opinion on the insurance of the lotteries concerned, possibly bypassing the opinion of the committee? Of course you understand that the non-insurance of all these lotteries primarily benefits the employer who avoids his insurance contributions. He's getting away. Now you'll tell me what I'm telling you? Your Government reduces these employers' insurance contributions in a lawful manner. With the budget itself, the State undertakes to pay these employers' social security contributions by slowly implementing the BSE requirement in full discharge of insurance contributions. I mention this because the debate and the draft law are being discussed today. But it does not do any good to the insured, to the lottery people, who, apart from being uninsured, have no way of proving where the incomes declared in the tax are coming from. We would like to know sincerely how this process will begin, because your first placement was quite general, let me be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u42	If I understood correctly, did you say that my position was incomprehensible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u43	Generally, not incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Delis, the administrative procedure is provided for by law, how it is done. When an administrative body does not meet - and I said that it will obviously not send the company to a meeting - it is assumed that this procedure can go ahead because it cannot leave the rights without applying and satisfying and the right of everyone to be insured is incomprehensible. She can't depend on whether she wants a company to send her representative. That is our conception, and it is also legally valid. It is not an invention of the moment, and obviously the administrative body must cover up, because we will not tell the director of the ECA local annex to make a decision. It will be taken centrally and if there is a need for further regulation in the ministerial decision, it will be done. However, I do not think it is necessary, because the ministerial decision that I have adopted has been made about compulsory membership. All that the committee does is to certify that he does sell lottery tickets. The application has been made, the lottery insurance body obviously has the knowledge that he is a lottery seller and that information is enough to join. There is no way, then, that this will not happen. I have explained how, retrospectively, there is no charge on the person insured with surcharges and interest, and it is wrong to say - I will expect to hear during the debate in plenary that will follow - for the contributions that are being reduced, which are not employers' contributions reductions. Read it a little. It's for the farmers. I remember Bhuta saying it's a big contributor and I said we'll reduce them when we can. You're coming in the moment we're doing it. Are you against this? But you are obviously not against it, you cannot oppose the reductions in contributions to farmers, to free trade, to scientists, to self-employed people. They're not employers. They're the same people for the same right. I suppose you'll agree because that's what you said we need to see. I therefore believe that my answer is understandable and will be resolved in the near future. Before the year ends, there will be a decision of the Board of Directors of EKKA that these cases will cover them in the way they are explained, people will be insured.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u45	We're keeping this. By the end of the year you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u48	We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Reduction of insurance contributions and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 November 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting, in principle, of articles and amendments. Does the House agree with the proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u49	The House unanimously agreed. It has been informed that the Minister will be here, but not to waste time, Mr. Petropoulou and Mrs. Fotio, you will stay to start until the Minister arrives and then find out what you are going to do. We are starting with the rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Gregory Stoyannides, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to recommend the bill under discussion that comes to implement the measures announced by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Getting out of the memorials, our Government is now in a position to take remedial actions that lighten the Greek citizen. It is important, therefore, that the provision to be voted on from 1-1-2019 is that the percentage of the monthly insurance contribution for the main pension sector of the self-employed is reduced from 20%, which is currently foreseen to 13.33%. This percentage continues to be calculated on the monthly income, as determined on the basis of the net taxable profit in the previous fiscal year, without prejudice to the mandatory minimum monthly contribution, which may not be less than 20% of the minimum basic salary of a single employee over twenty-five years. This regulation ensures a significant relief for the free-traders without jeopardising the viability of the insurance system, which is why all operators in the consultation have been positive. The figures show, however, that from 1-1-2017, established by EFKA, 1,25 million self-employed pay less contributions. In 2016, with the old scheme, only 27% of the self-employed paid a monthly contribution of less than EUR 200, while in 2018 88% of the self-employed pay a monthly contribution of less than EUR 200. Today, with the current bill, the contributions of L.4387/2016 are reduced for an additional two hundred and fifty thousand non-employees. The figures show that the 2019 additional relief is EUR 230 million and a total of over 700 million compared to 2016, while the total relief for the self-employed from 1-1-2017 to 31-12-2019 is over 1,700,000,000 euros. Under the proposed arrangement, insurance contributions are reduced from 20% to 13,33%, while in 2019 the escalating discounts to 50% for those with income from EUR 7,032 to EUR 58,000 will continue to apply. Referring, in other words, to lawyers, doctors and engineers, I note that the reductions are slightly smaller until 31/12-20, as until then they were in force and continue to apply transitional reductions to Article 98 of Law No.4387/2016, but their benefits are greater in view of the significant reductions introduced by the Legislation on contributions to the subsidiary and the one-off. I am referring to the draft regulation, which provides that the insurance contributions for supplementary pensions and one-off will be calculated on the minimum basis of calculation, i.e. the applicable minimum wage. Thus, with the current minimum wage, this contribution monthlyly will not exceed EUR 64,5, broken down to EUR 41 for an subsidiary and EUR 23,5 for a single. Also, the draft law to be passed adds an article to Law.4387/2016 which brings together all the favorable arrangements for young scientists under the age of five. In these, the contribution rate from 17% and 14% currently in force at the minimum base of 410 euros, that is to say 70% on the minimum basic salary of a single employee over twenty-five years, is adjusted from 1-1-2019 to 13.33%. Thus, the monthly main pension contribution amounts to 54.6%, for an ancillary pension calculated with 7% and a reduced trend at EUR 27.6 and for a single 4% to EUR 16.4. A reduction also occurs in farmers' insurance contributions. The percentage of their monthly insurance contributions is set at 12% in 2019, compared with 18% expected to be reduced by 33.3%. On the basis of this, 70% of the planned minimum basic salary of a single employee over twenty-five is retained and the minimum monthly contribution of EUR 74 for incomes from EUR 4,922 to EUR 7,400 is maintained. In the next few years, however, the rate of contributions is much less than the current forecast, as in 2020 the contribution will be 12.66% compared with 19%, 2021 to 13% instead of 19.5%, to reach 2022 and for farmers to 13.33% instead of the current 20% forecast. It is true that in all the above cases those who want to qualify for a higher pension have the right to pay higher contributions. In addition, the current draft law contains various rules on the topics of workers, unemployed persons, ADR, OAEDs and other provisions. Our government, once again, proves that he really stands next to the worker. It monitors the weaknesses of the worker's rights protection system and gives him tools to deal with employers' arbitrage. Some time ago we amended the Code of Civil Procedure by enabling the unpaid worker to claim his wages quickly and at a small cost by issuing a payment order. Today we are also intervening in the Criminal Procedure and giving him the opportunity to present a political appeal in support of a trial charge, with the accused employer who does not pay the wages and compensation for dismissal. Non-payment of accrued funds and non-payment of compensation in the event of dismissal shall be a criminal offence. The worker, when due to pay or compensation, shall bring the case before the Labour Inspectorate, and shall refer the case to the prosecutor, who shall prosecute him. However, where the case is brought to the audience, the worker may not perform a civil action and be represented by a lawyer, since the non-payment of a contract does not give rise to compensation for damage caused by the non-payment of accrued moral damage. The proposed regulation establishes the right to a statement of civil action, irrespective of the terms of Article 63 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, only to support the category of workers to whom earned wages are due, as well as the anticipated redundancy compensation. This regulation, in practice, is of great value and comes to overthrow a legal basis which often made the criminal prosecution against the employer unpaid, unpaid or redundant, inappropriate. We have the political will to change these unfair legal data. We have done the same by way of prior regulation that the non-payment of accrued funds is a harmful change, similar to a complaint on the part of the employer. With this provision, I would remind you, we have managed to decapitate a large number of workers from insolvent employers, without people losing their right to compensation and unemployment benefits. We are fighting the spots and overturning times that previous governments, systematically and to the service of employers, have been building for so many years. I would remind you that it is the legislation of the previous governments that has deregulationd labour relations. We did not establish the labour rotation system. We did not extend the possibility of the employer for a unilateral labour rotation system from six to nine months a year. We did not abolish collective agreements. We have tried to rebuild what the previous governments have broken down. We are struggling to impose legitimacy on the workplaces. In this context, we have strengthened the institution of the Labour Inspectorate, as well as its presence, while with this draft law we are increasing the parts of the APRC. We also protect inspectors from attacks on them, making them a particularly prejudicial case of Articles 229, 308-311, 333, 361 and 361A of the Criminal Code. In recent years, devastated employers not only pay their employees, but also attack the supervisory bodies of the Ministry of Labour. We will not allow this lawlessness, and the APRC will unnecessarily continue its work, beside the workers and against arbitraryness. In addition, this bill provides for free movement of unemployed people, an authorisation to issue employment programmes is updated, technical issues of insurance are resolved, the remuneration of legal representatives in archiving associations is characterised as compensation, so as to facilitate trade unions, not to increase VAT and not to be subject to reservations. The costs of the ECA are also regulated, organic posts are set up in supervised bodies of the Ministry of Labour, who have lost a large part of their permanent and experienced staff and are therefore unable to function, while until the conclusion of the competitive procedure, the posts are covered by existing staff. Overall, we would say that all the provisions of the bill to be passed have only a positive direction, and any criticism is sterile. The rapporteur of the New Democracy during the committees accused me of saying that in my report I only mentioned half the truth and hid the other half. I have said that the reduction in insurance contributions, but I have concealed the obvious, that the pension will be lower for those who pay smaller insurance contributions. We all know that part of the main pension is calculated according to the insurance contributions paid by each employee, each insured person, during his or her life of insurance. For whoever pays high contributions, the payroll will be high. For anyone who pays low contributions, the payroll would be lower. I have heard Members from the New Democracy propose a horizontal reduction in contributions from 20% to 15%. This proposal will obviously lead to a reduction in ECA's revenue. This deficit will obviously be paid by retired people. So that means a new reduction in pensions. I know that. You don't care about retired people. You don't care about the workers and the self-employed. You don't care about a lot of people. You're the party of the few. We are concerned by many, the workers, the unemployed, the self-employed and the retired. I have never heard of someone from the New Democracy talking about decent working conditions, only jobs. Many times when I hear people from New Democracy talking about jobs, I get the image of the gallery. Because when you talk about workers, you talk about hunger wages and unqualified workers. The current leader of the New Democracy a while ago said the eight hours are over. Of course, he didn't mean to go to seven hours, but to raise daily working time and - why not? - it doesn't make it to the tenth. These and other worse are your real positions. Tell the Greek people the truth, if you have the courage. I invite you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u51	The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today as many Members of Parliament are following the debate and those of our fellow citizens who see this debate in this House on this bill will be held in the same work as viewers, in a work perpetrated by the government that could be the title: 'Recitals of morality'. Why? Because we will see absolute hypocrisy here. We will see people parading from this here the Step and defending things, such as this bill, on reduced contributions. It is a proclaimed position of the New Democracy, a position which we believed and believe. And they will be the same people who two and a half years ago and for two and a half years claimed exactly the opposite to an ideological, ideological passion. We have been denounced that the reduction of contributions is a disaster and that we see it in other ways, classic, defending people who should not, the special category of scientists, the productive aspect of our economy. And here, today, not by accident, we are on the eve of elections, the government has tabled its last budget - it is coming to say that today it is in agreement with what we have believed for two and a half years and it has been a mistake. It was a mistake they paid dearly - who? - the productive part of our economy, namely the free professionals, the self-employed, the farmers, who have suffered this violently exterminated attack on SYRIZA's contributions for two and a half years. This is hypocrisy recital, gentlemen of the government. A recital that comes - because we must not forget - confirm and justify today the so-called « tie movement». Do you remember the tie movement, Mr. Minister, Mr. Petropoulou? It was all the productive world of the economy outside the House that was civilised by the imposed Katorugalou law, which all defended together, for the extermination contributions. And you, a group fire, baptized it and propaganda "the tie movement", assault on them. That's who you are, hypocrites, lies, deceitful. Today you come, right, welcome, to reduce contributions. But let's look at all things a little more thoroughly. I can't leave the budget to it. The budget you submitted yesterday, and it also has issues relating to the Ministry of Labour, has the following characteristics: firstly, it is the last budget for that government, a government that lied and cheated. And, secondly, it is a budget that sings benefits, has a flood of taxes and contributions while at the same time there is a drought in growth. Let us see where we are and in what environment this economic policy will become that you are announcing and depositing in the budget. Did you see yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, the ventilation of bank shares? Did you see the mini-neck on the Athens Stock Exchange? Did you see the strict warning from the European Union that we will lose the EUR 700 million from the profits of Greek bonds, because you have not gone through sixteen reforms? It's money that they could have come to the Greek people. And the conclusion, because this must be the strong concern bell to all of us, 4.7% the interest rate of the ten-year bond. This is the big issue concerning the economy and its prospects. What does that mean? No matter what you do, no matter what you announce, no matter what you say you don't convince the markets, you don't have the trust of the economy. It's 4,7% the ten-year bond! That is the picture, that is economic policy. We're off the market. Greece is in the void. So let's go and see some of the data on the economy, the workers, the unemployed and the social policy. I begin with the question the government says a lot about wages. Today, ladies and gentlemen, with elements of the EFCA, not of the New Democracy, one out of three employees is paid EUR 317. This is economic policy on workers' payroll, as SYRIZA has done. It is 317 euros with your data, one out of three employees. Secondly, with regard to parttime work, have you read the elements of the ERGAN system? Or do you read the propaganda notes of Maximus that they give you, and you come here and say other things? Last "ERGANI": 62.05% in new recruitments, parttime and rotating jobs. I put it in the Minutes for SYRIZA Members to see it before they were placed and exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u53	For what month?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u54	Last "ERGANI" October. Thirdly, a hundred and twenty thousand lost jobs outside, that is, the labour market. You're laughing, gentlemen of SYRIZA. I know you're watching jokes. You don't care. It is a good chair, but, in any case, a hundred twenty thousand are the biggest negative record in the history of the labour market. This is SYRIZA, outside the labour market! Don't laugh! I put the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's all over the decade. This shape I want you to read it well. Look at this. In 2014, full-time was dominant. So we gave it to you on the labour market. Parttime work was smaller. Look at today at the decade level, 54% to 46%. I put this in the Minutes too, so that we can get to know each other. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also come to the last point on which I have heard Mrs Fotou say things, to defend as an alibi the social policy policies of the Ministry of Labour and SYRIZA. EUROSTAT has deplored you, not the New Democracy. We know the results because we see society outside. Look at this shape. I'm putting it in the Minutes to see that before you take the floor. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Last in Europe, Greece is facing poverty. EUROSTAT data! These are, ladies and gentlemen, the results of your social policy, both in wages and in matters of protection of the weak. Let's go a little bit into this bill and reduce the contributions. I address the SYRIZA rapporteur. Yes, you said half the truth in the committee. Today something you said about the reduction of pensions. We have to tell the truth. The reduction in contributions is also accompanied by a reduction in pensions. In other words, we have a reduction in the remuneration of 33.35% in those who will have an impact on the reduction of contributions. One of the prisoners. Secondly, the reduction of the contributions that is being made at subsidiary and one-off level - to keep this today is important, because it concerns the future - basically means the abolition of supplementary pensions and the one-off one. Why? Because at constant prices a simple numerical analysis will see that in future supplementary pensions with the levies imposed will be EUR 30 per month and the single EUR 3 000 per month. Basically, it ends today with the bill and the supplementary pension for the Greeks and the one-off one and the road to the professional funds opens. Mr Petropoulou, the professional funds, I started them, I opened them and you fought them rabies, and today you are in the name of allegedly defending the public interest to abolish supplementary pensions and the one-off and go to the professional funds. Welcome back and be late!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u55	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u56	Let us also go to an issue which concerns the prospect of insurance and the future. Look at that, the New Democracy cannot be placed differently than agreeing to reductions in contributions. It was our position, and for two and a half years you have used us, you have complained to us, you have voted differently, you have had a different approach. We said that there had to be a reduction in contributions, you are now doing so, welcome. But it is an incomplete matter. You are lurking the main pillar of the Katorugalo Law. Why do you miss him? Listen to this. What was the basic argument of the Katrugalo Law? What was your ideological position, your political position for the Katrugalo Law? It was the name 'insurance justice', because it was not insurance justice. What were you then talking about the issue of insurance justice? It was the famous 20% of unified contributions. In other words, the basic pillar of the Katrugalo Law, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what you defended, ideologically and ideologically, with passion, is being shattered today. Therefore, the account of the fairness of the single contribution is no longer there. The main pillar of the Catrugalo Law is demolished. We said that, we say, but it's semi-metres. Why are they semi-meters? Because, quite simply, the contributions even today remain high. It must be reduced further. We must review the issue of contributions, because the EUR 14 500 on an annual basis remains a high number. Secondly, the issue of non-wage costs is the second side and the most important side. Because today, ladies and gentlemen, the level of non-wage labour costs at the level of contributions is appalling. 41% of the contributions are paid. This 41% is a brake to tackle unemployment. These are the results of flexible forms of employment. These are the results of high unemployment, still at 19.5%, high contributions, non-wage costs. What do we say? It is quite simply said that the non-wage cost should be reduced by five points. Question: This has been done before? That could be a question of good faith in a civilised, political dialogue between us. Of course, for the first time in the history of our country's insurance system. In 2014, the decrease of the non-wage costs by six units with the Samara government was made. Six points! Did he have any results? I remember at that time a number of similar arguments with the SYRIZA rapporteur 'I say that the insurance system will be broken down, it will fall out, it will reduce pensions!'. And yet, oh of the miracle, the six reduction units of the non-wage cost, combined with the government’s brave decision, then to impose strict fines on all employers who had inconsistent, inconsistent behaviour towards the workers, brought results. Unemployment began to deviate and began to comply with the environment of undeclared work. Of the 42% that was undeclared work, we delivered it to you at 13%. These were the results of our brave policies. It is no coincidence that you voted against everything at the time. The example I am referring to is the need to send a message to the government and to send it to everyone, that the contributions of employed workers must be reduced. It is a cornerstone for the growth and the economy and the increase in the income of workers. One more thing. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because I see some triumphs of opposition to the reduction of personal differences, which would be 1-1-2019 - to remember a little - which is the law. To refresh our memory. SYRIZA - ANEL - Aachtsoglou 4772/17. To get the Minutes, who voted this law? You voted for him yourself. The Pension Reduction Act is the law of SYRIZA. Second Memorandum. And today you say and triumphantly say that a reduction will not be applied, which we did not vote on. We told you that they were unfair and inappropriate to pensions. We have tabled an amendment - the President of the New Democracy and other parties - to undo it, but you have done nothing. What's waiting for the workers? Listen up. Workers, ladies and gentlemen, as well as pensioners from 1-1-2020, on the basis of your own legislation - this Law 4772/17- - will lose a wage and a pension. How? It's a reduction in duty. Do you remember when you criticised the New Democracy that you're going to go up to 12,000 the tax-free from the 9,500 when you inherited it? You take it to 5,500 under your law, and this is equivalent to a loss of a wage and a pension for workers and pensioners horizontally. Your law, we voted against it. One more thing. In order not to forget and not to deceive the world, all our new pensioners under the Katorugalo law 4387/2016 - your own law - have already suffered a 35% reduction in pensions in the mains and 45% in the subsidiary. This is the result of your policy. How is that confirmed? In today's budget you lose 358 million of new pensions. It is a confirmation of the reductions in the pensions of the Katrugalo Law, of 35% in the mains and 45% in the subsidiary. And in order not to forget, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are the government that has abolished the CSCE. You are the government that abolished VAT in the Aegean Sea, the reduced tax on islanders. You're the government that brought the team redundancies. You're the government that delivered the country's national wealth for ninety years. That's who you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Brutsi, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President. The New Democracy, always loyal to a healthy development line, a prospects for the economy that is not based on the benefits and poverty of the world, which does not plunder, which does not make up for what it said yesterday, is voting for the reduction of contributions. It was our programming position, it is and will remain. That's why we're different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that some forty-five Members have been registered. This means that time has to be observed, because otherwise you understand what time we will be finishing at night. That's the first. The list closes, closes the system. And in order to keep it in mind, I will give the floor for five minutes to the Minister, Mr Papapas, to present one of the two ministerial amendments. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it is good to say that there is a consensus in favour of the positive measures brought by the government. For this amendment: It is an amendment that transfers the competence of the 'Information Society S.A.' to the Ministry of Digital Policy. I think it is a self-evident move, which will speed up and improve the implementation of digital policy projects and which was not done precisely because there was no Ministry of Digital Policy in the previous years in our country. Unfortunately, our country has also had the fragmentation phenomenon in this area. For example, bodies implementing digital policy projects had the Ministries of Administrative Reconstruction, Education and Health: "Information Society" at the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, ESI Funds at the Ministry of Education, IDICs at the Ministry of Health. All three implementing bodies were engaged in and carried out projects, involving horizontally perhaps other ministries. So we come here - partly I have to admit, but rightly so - to take a step towards unification and more effective, I would say to you, implementation of the country's digital policy, which has accelerated and for the first time takes features, which relate to the national digital strategy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. You were brief, Minister. Mrs Ahtsioglu, a first question I have to ask you is whether you are aware of the fact that another ministerial amendment will be tabled. Secondly, if you have any legislative improvements. If you have them ready, please put them before the speakers for consideration, otherwise you will have to do so as soon as possible and not at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u62	Yes, we do, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u63	Good. So we're moving on. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, Minister, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, a brief comment on the adoption of the 2019 budget by the Commission. We have often seen institutions consent to something and immediately afterwards change attitudes. You should therefore prefer low tons of celebrations, because the excessive primary surpluses committed by the country are based on overtaxation of production and all types of property with a direct negative impact on liquidity, investment, consumption and employment. That's what we need to know. With this bill, the government admits, even with three years' delay, the failure of the Katrugalos law. Its title, however, is misleading, because the arrangements do not concern all the professions, the self-employed and the farmers, but 1/6 of them. It does not alleviate the world's financial burdens, as you said, Minister, in committee. In a total of one and a half million free professionals, self-employed and farmers, the number benefiting from the arrangements proposed by the government is close to two hundred and fifty thousand workers. We are therefore talking about a small step. I am appalled, therefore, by the celebrations and designations of the great social impact that your interventions have. We have seen you, Minister, set up an artificial bloc between SYRIZA and New Democracy in committee. The tactics of duplex in your party's strategy and you and the New Democracy are known. You have wondered, Minister, who exactly has sank the country's economy into recession, commenting on what Mr Brutsis said? So we, like all Greek citizens, are wondering why you left the country's governance in 2004-2009, the Karamanlis government unresolved? In fact, this is a period that was excluded from the memos, by you, as far as the examination is concerned. Do not forget that we entered the memorandum in May 2010 and the national elections took place in October 2009. Why do you wonder about this day-to-day story? Who are you covering? What do you cover for, and why? Why is this discourse on the part of both the government and your MPs, but also on the part of the New Democracy? I mean, what? In seven months of governance of the country by the government of George Papandreou, the PASOK government, created the huge problem, the crisis, and not from the five and a half previous years, in the government of Karamanlis? In fact, with the European Commission's figures, Kostas Karamanlis increased the country's public debt by about 120 billion - out of 180 billion - and the government's primary expenditure by 42 billion euros. Gentlemen of the government, it is prudence and unprecedented to support the Karamanlis Right, and that will follow you. I would also say provocative, as instead of proposing an examination for the memoranda to explore in depth this period in order to really reveal who led the country and how it led to the crisis, you 'fly mud in the fan'. You really want to break down the honest attitude but also the Prime Minister of the major projects, Kostas Simitis, the Prime Minister who speaks his work and not his words. Let me remind you of the country's accession to EMU, Helsinki, the accession of Cyprus to the European Union. The big works bring the seal of this Prime Minister. Gentlemen, the case that comes up again today has already been judged in 2006. It is not a solution to go backwards and even to elections, triggering scandalology, constantly bringing supposed scandals that now, supposedly, have come to the surface. We said 'no covert' and as President Fofi Genuines said 'all in light'. We have complete confidence in Greek justice, however, and we are safe that none of it is covered and we leave it unaffected to do its job. That is what we want to serve for. You want co-operation for the big Central Left. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, this is not how we build relationships of confidence. Scandalology method is tearing down any bridges. There's someone who says it to you who's centre-left and sees it. Ladies and gentlemen, any political behaviour - to close here - is not a political behaviour. However, I should like to come back to the bill. We have seen you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, compete with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, on who was the defender of social security. Unfortunately, however, in the insurance of both SYRIZA and New Democracy you are under the base, because both failed in the big areas of PASOK on social security, from the country's universal insurance cover with the additional insurance of farmers, the drafting of uninsured overages from the OGA, the two-month maternity leave and the extension of parental leave, the EASA, the "Help to Home", the CIDS, children and nursing stations, the OAED's programmes for the unemployed, until the Single Centre for the Payment of Pensions, the “DICA”, the electronic register of insured civil servants, pensioners, e-learning, the EOPY and the Solidarity Fund, reforms that took place in the crisis, the 2009-2011 Government, PASOK. These reforms are truly socially captured in the thoughts and minds of the citizens. Neither the linking of contributions to income criteria nor the ‘Pinochet’ solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of the functioning of social security, the safeguarding of public and universal character for us who served the country within the great Democratic Partnership, during the long and prosperous period of post-population, was a key political option. With full consciousness, given the circumstances at the time, we exempted it from the private initiative, assuming that the role of private insurance can only be complementary to the protection of the business risks in the operation of private insurance companies. Today we are in another era, with other needs and other challenges. Here I would like your attention, Madam Minister and Mr Ministers. The country's ageing. It's not a cliché that demographic is a time bomb. It's a reality. On an annual basis in recent years births have reached ninety thousand, and deaths at the level of one hundred and twenty thousand. Negative, as you can hear, the natural balance. How can there be births, though, when there is no friendly environment for new couples, when new couples are removed from their country, fleeing Brain Drain abroad, when the state today does not give them any incentive to childbirth and structures to support fertility? Madam Minister, I would remind you of the recent replacement of family allowances with the child benefit of the OPECA, which has brought about a reduction in the allowances for multiple families. Negative and migration balance. Following the economic crisis, mainly because of the increased youth unemployment, a wave of young people has been created from the country and at the same time the country is not an attractive destination for economic immigrants. What is the present quality of life of the modern Greek to be held within borders? See unemployment rates, given by ELSTAT in June 2018: 39% in ages fifteen - twenty-four15-24, 23% in ages twenty-five - thirty-four, 18% in ages thirty-five - forty-four. Five hundred thousand fellow citizens left the country. What attempt was made on the government's side to turn this world back? This is the world that will change the country. Is there any design, gentlemen of the government, to pass from Brain Drain to Brain Gain and with what policies? We haven't seen them yet, because what is reflected in the bill debate is that you're creating new scientists and freelance professional plastic impressions that you're looking after them. That is what the regulation shows with the reductions of the first five years to the new free traders. That is why you are turning them first into debt, which they must complete and repay in the next ten years. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the government has forced young scientists to retroactively pay their subsidiary contributions since 2017, turning them into accounting, I would say, trick the discounts, as it adds them another burden. In 2017, sixty-three people, twice as many as sixty-three, were foreseen. This is under sect. My personal opinion? Ladies and gentlemen, the delay in organising a process of cross-party consensus on a brave social security reform, the delay in solutions in a neuro-algal sector, which is directly linked to social protection, social cohesion and the standard of living of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming back to the bill. As I said to the committees, you must speak to us with specific policies, timetables and objectives on how to bring all these young people back. Otherwise we'll find the problem in front of a giant. Studies show that in 2070 Greece will reach 63% of the proportion of the elderly in productive age. Today, in a hundred people aged 15 to sixty-four, they account for thirty-three pensioners. So we cannot safely talk about how reductions in absolute numbers will be shaped, when the arrangements in the bill are based on two unstable factors: firstly, changing the method of calculating the minimum wage and secondly, the imminent abolition of the 15% discount. Three years later you came to admit that doctors, lawyers, engineers were right. Also, three years after the government has not yet given a solution to the major issue of employers, which at the same time has a negative impact on the workers' pocket. The non-wage costs and social security contributions paid by employers are high and are an incentive for new recruitments. At the same time, the net income received by workers is reduced. According to EUROSTAT data, for the first quarter of 2018, the hourly non-wage costs in the economy as a whole increased by 5.1% compared to the first quarter of 2017, shaping the total employers' contributions to 25.6% of gross wages. You have also not yet given a solution to the accumulated debts to the insurance funds, especially those created within the crisis, where the extrajudicial mechanism has not yet yielded significant fruit. See, then, this request by the institutions for the establishment of a fixed system for regulating debts to the insurance funds. There's no different solution to the problem. And you'll have to see this again. Before I close, I would like to make the following comments. Firstly, the philosophy of linking contributions to real income finds us completely opposed because it is purely collective and in no way serves the principles of social security. The Minister described the Commission as "fake news", the fact that this philosophy forces free professionals to evade tax. The answer can be found in the ADP data. For example, the total declared income of free professionals decreased by 20% in 2016, compared to 2015. They declared for 2016 a total of EUR 3,8 billion in revenues compared with EUR 4,7 billion in 2015. They declared, in other words, after the entry into force of the 'Katrugalos' incomes reduced by EUR 900 million. The conclusions, of course, yours. Secondly, the Minister has linked the Commission with the payment of the retrospectives to the end of the memoranda and the possibility of a free policy. In fact, you call 'political choice' and 'political act' compliance with constitutional law. The conclusions here are yours. Your political choice, however, was reflected in the public debate on the equal treatment of public officials, when it was stated that the question of retrospectives also raises legal claims for all categories. Here too, we must not forget that citizens have both memory and mature thought and judgment. Thirdly, the Commission's approval of the non-reformation of pensions is in line with our position and vote in the resolution of the 'Katrugalos Law'. We, Minister, and we did not vote for the cuts proposed by the government, and we tabled a proposal for a law on the non-cutting of old pensions, so we are only satisfied with this news. You are now left to adopt our proposal to abolish the Katrugalo Law. It is now up to the government and the rest of our proposal to permanently abolish the "Katrugalos" so as to save both new pensions granted reduced since 2016 and the widow's pensions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as part of this draft law, we have tabled an amendment to create a rational and fair system of contributions by introducing eight categories of insurance, with their respective contributions and reductions, and the establishment of a higher threshold for small and medium-sized enterprises, free traders and farmers. This is a system which is based on justice and which can be applied for the benefit of many, particularly the members of the state who are insured. We urge you, Minister, to accept our amendment. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are voting 'yes' at the outset of the bill, because the reduction in insurance contributions for workers is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theories by twenty students and students and an educational meeting of the 2nd Primary School of Oporto Raftis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ioannis Sahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, with this draft law you are entitled to say that in this Chamber there is a party of the parties and a single opposition from the Golden Dawn, representing Greek nationalists. Why am I saying that? It is so serious for you this draft law, which, at the hearing of the bodies, you called for sixteen bodies, none of the previous ones - all of the three parties - had any question to address to any body or body. What does that prove? Whether you are completely controllable by those who represent operators, through their trade unions, or indeed you are the party of the parties, because you agree with everything. So no question from the SYRIZA rapporteur, any question from the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who was absent at the time when the questions were asked, no question from the speaker of the Change Movement. This demonstrates that everything was agreed. Because of the bodies that came - mostly - half of them showed that they were representatives of SYRIZA and the other half of those who claim power. In fact, at some point - I honestly say so - I am proud of representing this ideology - I was really ashamed that I was a Member of this committee. Because the chairman of the committee - and I take this into account from the Bureau, in order to put it to the Conference of Presidents - considered that it should be justified to the bodies for the presence of a few Members, that some people are from a distance and could not come to this sitting. It was a lie. I'm far from here, too. And with my legs coming, I'd have caught up with the meeting. Just the reason why they were not present is one and only, Mr President: because the committee at the hearing is not paid, there were no Members. Keep it in mind. Let's move on to the draft law. This draft law is against the rulers the improved proposal to amend the 'Katrugalos Law', adopted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in the context of the enforcement of measures to regulate the insurance system, in accordance with its commitments towards the Troika. The whole political system and party mechanisms, which belong to your anti-democratic bow, knew that the need for insurance reform was a prerequisite for extending the lending of the Greek state by the economic centres of the European Union. L.4387/2016, which has been called the "Katrugalos Law", was essentially the epitome of economic neoliberalism and the vertical increase in insurance obligations, at the expense of the already economically cracked middle class. The provisions of this law brought unprecedented and vertical increases in the contributions of insured persons. In particular, members of the top scientific associations in the country were affected by the provisions imposed, mainly with the victims of young scientists who had to pay non-ordinary contributions compared to their income capacities. That was one of the most important reasons, which led to further exacerbation of Brain drain. The young and talented Greek scientists were forced to emigrate, seeking better working conditions and financial gains, given the unholy economic environment at domestic level. The ability of the insured has been reduced and the rates of outstanding debt have, unfortunately, been increased. The decisions taken on the possibility of regulating public debt have once again proved to be inadequate as a means of covering budgetary gaps, since the debtors are unable to cope with them. A lot of evidence proves that the majority of the debtors have lost their arrangements and the debts have never been collected. At the end of 2016, the total debts to the insurance funds have spread, with debtors numbering about three hundred fifteen. Of these, some sixty-two thousand have debts of EUR 6.7 billion and at some point joined a sort of regulation. However, according to the statistics of the Insurance Debt Centre, the hundreds of three thousand went out with the consequence that 4,6 billion euros were lost from state funds. Official figures, recently published by the Independent Public Revenue Authority, show that for the first time in the years 4.3 million VAT appear to owe more than 182 billion euros to the tax office and yet 35 billion euros to the insurance funds. Especially in September, more than half a million taxpayers were unable to pay the second instalment of ENPY. There is no need for particular intelligence to conclude that some of the same people are deeply dived into private debts and are tortured by the 88 billion euro red loans. The figures are vague and prove that the situation in Greece is marginal. Every announcement of yours, supposedly, is being broken down. Unless you consider that the forecast of 1.5% to 2.4% and unemployment to be over 20% is growing. In October we had a record of job losses for the last seventeen years. About a hundred and twenty thousand jobs have been lost. The fact that you consider four-hour work, the fact that you believe that unemployment indicators are falling because seven hundred thousand young scientists have left abroad, who are no longer registered with the OAED - the same is true, as it seems, and for Civicism, after the statements of its Chief, who said "remember that from now on someone will retire from the same job, from which he started" - clearly shows what your intentions are and that you are the same currency in a different perspective. In fact, in order for the Greek people to understand how affordable Greece is for investment, in a list of hundred cities worldwide for what city is more attractive for someone to come to work, Athens holds the last, hundreds. As a miracle, three German cities, Frankfurt, Munich and Berlin, in the first ten positions. In other words, with the money paid by the Greek people, they are cities that are attractive for someone to go to work. The question, which arises vaguely, is whether the proposed reductions in insurance contributions will be able to provide the insured with a better quality of life and a significant change in their income situation. The answer is that your Government and the European technocrats have realised that the strict austerity policy characterised by unfavourable economic measures has absolutely no effectiveness and the State's revenues are in no way increased. On the contrary, it is also apparent from the evidence I mentioned above that, unfortunately, the debts are accumulated. This is how it was decided to find a way to increase the State's collection capacity. And your government proves to be an excellent partner of our country's lenders. In order to serve that purpose, the current draft law, which proposes the following reductions and changes are made to the basic articles of the 'Katrugalos Act', i.e. Articles 39 to 41. In Article 1(1), the second subparagraph of Article 1 of this draft law proposes the fixing of a monthly insurance contribution of 13.33% from 1-1 to 2019, which concerns hundreds of thousands of workers falling within the scope of this draft law, who are mostly employed and self-employed in various sectors and scientific disciplines. It follows from the combination of Articles 1 and 2 that the reductions provided for exist, but that they make it difficult to calculate the actual amounts to be paid at the end of which the persons would have to pay. There is a rating per year in the determination of this percentage, mainly due to the budgetary needs arising from the budgets drawn up by economists not from Greece, but from Brussels. In addition, we must note, in this reading of the bill, that the proposed arrangements have become a legislative spirit of No.4387/2016 and therefore in the spirit of the Memorandum of Understanding of SYRIZA - ANEL. It is obvious that the representatives of the government and the ministries involved will need to make ministerial decisions and circulars, and only then will the actions of the provisions be understood. In any case, the proposed draft law was to incorporate the official special tables with realistic examples, which would make the interpretation of the reductions that you publish satisfactory. Instead, we see the phenomenon of such tables circulating in the various media, either online or in the printed media. In our view, this phenomenon is intended to disorientate public opinion, taking into account the fact that, in the final analysis, as I said before, the final application of the proposed reductions will result following ministerial decisions. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The draft law, in addition to the provisions relating to reduced rates of calculation of monthly contributions, contains other provisions regulating matters relating to the calculation and reimbursement to the public funds of any unpaid pensions and benefits. From Articles 34 to 37, we note that you propose the setting up of hundreds of posts for the provision of services belonging to various bodies in the wider public sector. We interpret it as another recruitment orgy. You baptize it as rationalization in public administration. It is clear that the government, which is a regulator in terms of the timing of the coming elections, is in the process of implementing the classical openings to the electorate, which, as usual, is satisfied either by seeing increases in wages and pensions or by recruiting in the already charged public sector, thus continuing the policy that makes Greece - unfortunately - a country providing services. From this type of policy primary production further weakens and serves the economic plan of Brussels, which primarily consists of converting the weaker states of the European Union to economic under-utilities, which will not be able to have financial self-sufficiency. They are therefore becoming fully dependent on the economic policies of the European regime. Insurance has been a dominant problem for decades in Greek fiscal reality. Governments are unable to provide solutions and to establish rules for a fair distribution of income liabilities. Instead, we have the vertical reduction in pensions and the deterioration in the level of medical services in public hospitals, when the insured are obliged to pay high-risk premiums in proportion to their income. Many people are preparing the ground for a mass shift to private insurance companies, which demonstrates the targeted deterioration of the public insurance institution. In any case, it is reasonable to state that the Greek people need substantial measures, which will contribute to real economic development and have a long-term effect. Your impulsive bills are in no way capable of disorientating the Greek people. I consider it advisable to comment on Article 18 as well - which refers to the retention and offsetting of debts to social security institutions which have been regulated. What's going on here, Minister? On the one hand, we have the Greek citizen who concludes a regulation, a contract, an agreement with the state and, if the citizen is not in line with his obligations and omissions a dose, he loses regulation. You are now coming to tell us that, with a ministerial decision, the criteria will be mentioned to keep a portion of this money, which will be at hand, because every operation, like any citizen, has a completely different need. How will this balance be established, as referred to in Article 18, and how will it be, once it has been decided - because constitutionally speaking, withholding or netting? Do you think it is right for them to be retained and calculated from the last instalments? Why not remove the direct instalments of the debtor who has entered into this arrangement so that you can give him a breath? Also, how do you get into this process and become a state which does not respect the agreement to the Greek citizen? Because, as I have said before, the citizen with a delayed dose loses the regulation while you come - and is right in the contract he has signed and in the arrangements - and you keep him all the money. Isn't that illegal? To close, I think it is advisable to make a final report. From now on, we are experiencing a long pre-election period and there has already been a start on the party transcriptions. The New Democracy shows stable positions in looking for singers, actors, athletes. He has recently made a transcription of an athlete of the leap - a jumper over every science - of Mr. Tatsopoulos, who has jumped half of Athens. To avoid complaining you of SYRIZA, there is another jumper that has jumped to the rest of Athens: Take Spaliara.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u67	Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor, the JRC's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Labour and the Undersecretaries, in their place in the committees - but I imagine they will do so today, then - attempted to present the reality of the majority of our people with their heads down. They claimed that the measures implemented by the Katorugalou Act, from deficits in social security received, created surpluses and thus from 1-1-2019 would not cut the personal difference. They also say that they reduce insurance contributions by this draft law, implementing the Prime Minister's announcements to the ICU. They defended the Katorugalou law, claiming with him that justice was restored to social security, that the implementation of this law and effective management have created new positive data, which are at risk of the liberal obsessions of the New Democracy. With this polluting line, the government is attempting to eradicate the traces of crime committed against social security. In this polluter fight with other political forces, which defend exactly the same reinsurance strategy, it aims to exempt capital and state from social security costs by opening up the scope for private business in insurance. They talked about the destructive policy of the New Democracy and PASOK, but they maintained all the anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots measures, whether they concern insurance, labour overturning or the taxing of the people. They presented the budget, which was submitted yesterday, as different from the previous ones, as the first memorial, despite the undeniable evidence that the attack on workers and the people continues. And the characteristic example is that social funds are cut by EUR 1.3 billion for 2019. Also, the activation of the Brutsi Act to abolish collective bargaining for minimum wages presented him as an increase. The minimum wage will be fixed by the Minister concerned with the main criterion to ensure the profitability of employers. The extension of collective labour agreements to certain sectors, to the employment status of a jungle, to slavery, the hire of workers, the tricks with private capital companies and other forms, present it as a reintroduction of collective agreements, while 90% of the workers are without collective agreements and with young girls and boys being paid at 300 euros, with endless hours of work most times. The pension debate revolves on what will not be cut rather than what will be increased or returned from the stolen cuts. The government suggests that it is the smallest evil in relation to the New Democracy. But both lead the people to the greatest evil. One starts where the former stopped, and you both break the workers, the pensioners, the people. This is also your fair growth account. On the one hand, the Government accuses New Democracy of making twenty-one reductions in pensions, and on the other, by the Katrugalou Act, it incorporated them all and proceeded with new reductions of EUR 8.2 billion from 2016 to 2019 according to the General Accounting Office of the State. It drastically reduced the state grant to social security from 17.5% in 2012 to 9.2% today. And it goes on, according to their commitment, to reach 4.8% in 2024, with what it means for pensioners' pensions, but also for workers' insurance. You abolished the ESS, the weakest, the poorest pensioners on the other hand, you say you care about the poor. You have abolished the minimum pension of EUR 486 with Circular Haikalis and made it EUR 392. You have snatched your widow's pensions by 392 million euros, meeting the universal outcry with the regulations on age limits that are effectively abolishing their protection. You have broken the pension into a "national" and "equivalent", with only the so-called "national" of EUR 360, for now, because most likely it will reach the levels of the social solidarity benefit. You have implemented the provision of the second memorandum, with a 20% reduction in pensions in the lower pensions, for those who did not complete the sixty-seventh year of age. You have, gentlemen, reduced the subsidiary by EUR 1.26 billion, according to the General Accounting Office of the State. You raised your age limits to sixty-seven for men and women. With the third memorandum you increased contributions to the health sector by 2% in the main and 6% in supplementary pensions. You have introduced an additional contribution for subsidiary only in the first four years, amounting to EUR 1,251 billion. You have snatched the dividends of civil servants by 832 million euros. You have eliminated the only ones from the change in the method of calculating pensions and the bloody supplementation rates have been deducted from the pensioners’ EUR 689 million. The average new main pension of Katrugalos, from the law and then it reached 480.29 euros, from 708.2 euros that were. For the truth, we are presenting here for the record a pension for a civil servant, who, according to the previous law, had EUR 1,407,83 and the Katrugalou law, is EUR 1 000.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u69	When was that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u70	Before the Katougalu law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u71	Before 2009?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u72	Before 2015 of the Katrugalo Law he had a pension of 1,407 euros and now has a pension of 1,006 euros. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. You can see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Refugee, Minister, to resolve pension disputes such as ETUCD, despite your ongoing commitments and submit their memorandum, which have served you many times, and it will be good to take it. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the one hand, you denounce previous governments for the poverty of workers and pensioners, you claim that your policy supports the weaker ones, and on the other hand, in addition to the abolition of the CSCE, you have made for a debt of up to EUR 500, you have abolished any protection of first homes by pushing to the nails of banks and corpses, auctioning the first home. You are trying, with some amendments, to enlighten the anger and indignation from overthrowing insurance and pension expectations. Any modifications - corrections do not alter the profound reactionary character of the Katorugalo Law. They cannot legitimise, acquit the tombstone, which puts into whatever social character the struggles of the working class and the people for social security have done. In the demands of pensioners, at the forty-five gatherings they have made so far, the class unions, the dozens of strikes and rallyings, as well as the totalitarian strike on November 28, one of the demands is the abolition of the Katrugalos law. Because this law implements the OECD European Union guidelines for further reductions in the price of the labour force, for exemption of employers from participation in insurance, for a drastic reduction in State participation in the amount of pensions and poverty benefits. It further strengthens the development of private insurance systems on the basis of the capitalisation system. It's no different from the Pinochet model, New Democracy says. The Government claims that this draft law represents a step forward in implementing the Prime Minister's announcement to PPC on allegedly reductions from insurance contributions. Any relief that has been presented cannot balance the enormous increases in the social contributions of these groups, such as farmers, but also the scientists, presented by Law No.4387/2016, in order to understand us - who, in connection with high taxation, plunders most of their income. This law, according to the explanatory statement, relates to two hundred thousand insured by one and a half million employees. It comes to prevent new reactions, which the new increase from 01-01-2019 in these groups would cause, as the 15% discount on the insured income for 2018 ceases to apply. In order to increase the reduction, the Government does not compare exactly what it paid in 2018 and what it will pay in 2019, but compares what would apply in 2019 on the basis of the Katrugalo Law and what will apply with the adoption of this draft law. Most of the relief that is presented is not real. The JRC does not care for any reduction in insurance contributions. If they came separately, we wouldn't say no. The first three articles, however, which provide for reductions, include regulations which not only dismiss them, such as the abolition of the 15% discount, but which strengthen the reactionary logic of compensating the system. And for those who have a taxable income of up to 20,000, there is virtually no relief. Reduced contributions to the logic of remuneration are known to be linked to the amount of pension a pensioner is entitled to. Any reduction in contributions is a precursor to the large reductions in insurance contributions, which BSE, SETE and the other employers' organisations are persistently demanding. The employers' organizations, in the notes they have sent you, remind you of your commitment to reduce contributions and ask you to speed up the process. The New Democracy resigns because you do not go further on reducing wage costs and tells you that you will have its full support, as you had for the activation of the Brutsi Act. There's no regulation on who's gonna pay the cost. You're uploading it to everyone except the business groups you're mocking them. The JRC has repeatedly raised the issue of large capital taxation with 45%. But you are already in the front of reducing their taxation. You are in front of new tax exemptions, exemptions, privileges and all kinds of subsidies. At the same time, however, for the majority of the people, you impose hunger wages and pensions, unbearable taxes, carpets, HISPIA, "blooded" surpluses. The reductions you make today are propaganda announcements. For example, the mercenary scientists - which deal with some articles in the bill - will not only see generous reductions, as they can hear, but with the draft law on the one hand abolish the discounts - as we said - and on the other there are increases in contributions that will start in 2019. In 2019 the new year's contribution base is increased from 85% to 100%. In other words, the increase is 15%. This increase concerns all self-employed persons and employees with a service document. Any reduction in the rate of contributions from 20% to 13.3% is to a large extent undone. For example, for a self-employed engineer with income of EUR 14,000 per year, from EUR 2,950 in 2017, in 2018, he will pay EUR 3,015 and in 2019, with the abolition of discounts, he will be over 4,400 euros. The incomes of up to 7,000 euros will pay 2,800 euros a year. That's a reality. It is also included in the draft law in Part II 16A, the creation of labour inspections in some prefectures, without giving solutions to the major shortages of labour inspectors throughout the country. It provides for participation in the OPCW and other representatives of the industrialised Northern Greece, with which we certainly do not agree. OAED is a tool in the hands of employers for a further grant of labour costs. It provides for arrangements for special employment programmes in the public sector. It is in the sense of recycling unemployment, in the logic of subsidising employers to reduce so-called labour costs. The worker is not a cost, it is a production of all the wealth produced in this country. It is a continuation of the support programmes of the workers with warm money from the worker's retention of the contribution, while the unemployed remain unprotected. Over 90% are without unemployment benefits and those who take, get this 360 euro benefactor. The lawyers' remuneration for the elections of the unions is regulated and is characterised by compensation. It lightens unions, but we think that unions should not have any kind of trade with lawyers present in the election. Any compensation to be paid directly by the OAED. Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, we want to transfer the concern of the Elefsina Shipyard workers, because it concerns the continuation of their work, the safeguarding of the rights arising from their employment relationships and, in particular, the payment of the wages paid by the employer for several years. The Warship project and seventy workers working with fixed-term contracts are five months unpaid. They are in despair and their families. No contributions have been paid since 2013. The concern of workers is also increasing for the consequences of their insurance and pension rights. The government is exposed to these developments. We're waiting for your answers. As a JRC, we will continue to give all our forces to reconstruct the labour movement, to coordinate the struggle of the self-employed, the scientists, the farmers with the class movement against the real opponent, the monopolies and business groups, their state, the European Union and NATO, who are supporting all the forces that you are saying that this system should be eternal. This is also expressed through the insurance and arrogant future of our children. In this perspective, we are calling for massive participation in the strike on November 28th. To claim the modern needs we invite together with the JRC. We are voting against the principle. We shall be voting on all the articles. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated by twenty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the Municipal School of Foxes Corfu and the 10th Municipal School of Corfu. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u75	The Minister has the floor, Mr Paulakis, to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general number of 1802 and a special number of 144. It is composed of three paragraphs. With the first paragraph, we are giving an extension to the validity of Article 6 of Law 4432/2016, as amended by Law 4558/2018, with regard to the costs of supplies and services of hospitals, primary health and hospitals up to 31-10-2018, in order to compensate suppliers of the health system for supplies and services to hospitals. It concerns supplies, which have not been finished and the competitions in the various hospitals in the country, which, compared to what existed two years ago, has been an improvement in the percentage of the contest over 60%. The second paragraph extends the contracts that are active in hospitals for the supply of health material and other consumables to be used by health regions in order to provide a smooth supply of health centres. With the third paragraph, there is a change in relation to the submission of applications for subsidiary doctors, where there are practically two points. The first is that we are making the decade limit out of qualification, so that one can be recruited as an adjunct doctor, and the second is that for colleagues who are serving on successive extensions lately ending 31-12-2018, a respected number of subsidiary doctors, we give them the right to be registered from now, before their term of office ends, on the lists of subsidiary doctors, so that, if they have not taken a permanent place, on the basis of the developments now taking place and there are needs in hospitals, where their term of office ends, they can be re-appointed, having already been on the list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I think it's worth it to see a little bit of a globe before we specialize in this bill, what exactly happened and what exactly happens? I want to remind you that the choice of a hundred families recycled over time and earned everything and a large part of Greek citizens being around is a choice that lasted many decades. I am not saying that there have been no positive things at this time. For Christ's sake! But you know what counts where the scale ends. This tactic led the country to bankruptcy. I see some very aggressive people in this Chamber. Their right, they're judged. I want to remind you again for once that all Greek citizens lost 25% of their property. I would also like to remind you that the public debt has reached EUR 326 billion. I would also like to remind you that the people who buy it on the five fingers - on the five fingers for a hundred families, yes, on the five fingers for the others not - have at some point reached unemployment at 27.5% and delivered it to that percentage. This is the definition of a bankrupt country. Under these circumstances, a new government came in with a different culture. Let's see something or should I rely on what I hear every day? Unbelievable expressions, such as 'usable', 'the worst government'. I've never seen a thing like that before. Such aggressive determinations should be searched to find them. I hear them from Members of Parliament in general in this Chamber who have not given any rights. The other world is society as a whole. Should we pay attention to society? It has reached 50% of the Greeks, for those who do not know it, to be below the poverty line. Did you forget a lot of people were going to the dumpsters? They're still going to church today. The Church, I have to say, has offered to this story and done everything it could. Where did the Greek society come from, remember, or have we forgotten? I would like to mention an example here. It is not a charity what the current government does, it is a real choice. When someone doesn't have to consume, fate will save everything. The economy will fall. So market lights, the people who play on the five fingers of the market, reached the society in Nadir and I read daily in articles "parentology, election...". Do we live in another country? Don't you know that there are still people here who are hungry, who find it difficult, who need the social solidarity allowance? We call 'benefits'. No, I'm not for the benefits either. Investments we want. There are people who have lost their security. If it wasn't for that government to give two and a half million Greek insurance companies, they weren't going to operate, they weren't going to the dentist, they weren't going anywhere. I believe that it is a cause for growth and this seems to be the choice of the current government. And let's see exactly what happened in some other countries before that they gave scripts. The social state, which some had forgotten, was what pushed Sweden into great growth. I am referring to this example, because Uluf Palme, a man who once collected the entrepreneurs and sat with them six months, 'unnecessary' - told them - 'is the social state of Sweden'. "Come on, I don't have any enemies, I don't have any friends, to sit down and see what tax you'll pay" etc. I say this because they are not the first teachers of today's government. There are many historical examples. And we saw a country getting rich over time, Germany. Is he mind-minding? I think he's gonna slow down. And what was there, and there wasn't from the other countries, collecting it from one country. Yes, European Union, with other rules. That's what this government is trying to do today. The country's budget, to the honour of the country, has not been corrected at all. This has only been done for ten countries, not all of them. What this government has announced in the IGC - has announced eleven measures, some have been mocking them - they are within the budget. Some people were at risk that nobody would come in. It's all gone. Three have already been legislated. We know that the uniforms, the doctors of the ESS, the academics - special wages, and not confuse the rest - have been legislated to take their money. We already know in an amendment which was passed yesterday to abolish the trade tax for cooperative farmers. And they'll follow another twenty-one for those who don't know about it. Forgive me a little, but to ease the atmosphere, there was a torment, the torment of the drop. Because we see them coming here, bailing against measures, and finally voting on them. They're fine, but we're all judged. Our credibility is judged to be of great importance. I know, it's torture. I have heard Mr Brutsi say 'We have said that'. I plead. Indeed, everything has been said and in forty years they have not been able to implement it. They're a little late, that's all right. It's never too late. I would like to focus on some of the things we have heard here for years. So we heard that in the first half of this government charged the country. Another said 80 billion - they had no problem with numbers - another said 100 billion, another said 200 billion. Let's see the numbers. The public debt in 2019 is projected to be 323,5 billion, i.e. 12.6 billion. How much did this government get? He received it 325 billion. There's a small reduction. There was an increase in 2017. There was an increase in 2016. But not those unbelievable things they say. Get me an economist to capture us scientifically the numbers of excesses of 80, 100 and 200 billion. One of the prisoners. Second inmate: I remember Kostis Hatzidakis, who is a decent MEP, being ready to cry when Moskovis in the Senate Hall said: "If you catch the targets, we don't have to cut pensions." So he stood up and said, "But what are you saying? This is voted on.’ Unbelievable things we heard in the Senate Hall. Moscovisi's gathered. He tells you, is there a man who doesn't want his light? Then they switched the line. They brought amendments when they saw that they were no longer taken. Then they said they gave you the Macedonian and they do things for you. Drink the glass. Now they realize the pensions won't be cut. And after they saw something was done, they started talking about postponement. It's a postponement, he says. No, it's not a postponement. They officially called it the lips, and Moscovisi and Dobrovsky. And thanked. It may not be here, but I still want to remind you that duty-free - I am exposed - will not fall. And that target will be taken. I would also like to remind you that growth in this country, which we had years to see, is predicted in 2.5% of this year, a little less of time and a little less of the next year. And I want to say that slowly the deposits are back to the banks. So, let's not forget. Immediately outside record-invested 12-year-olds. They approach the 4 billion in 2018. The money to be given this year for these twenty-one measures to be legislated is about 800, about 900 million. No one's questioning it. And when I say no one. I do not want to mention them one by one, but it is worth it reminding us that the bitter glass of these commitments will come in ruptured by the second ten days of December. So, to get to know. I would also like to remind you that in fact two major factors of the European Union, and Moscovisi and Dobrovski, are congratulating the Greek Government. I'm not talking about it. They say it themselves. I would also like to remind you that 'ERGAN' gives us in the run-up to four hundred thousand new jobs. That means, by simply Greek, that more will pay contributions. And fate is gonna be good for everyone. I still want to remind you, for those who today bailed again, in numbers, not theory - and listened to me - to see their pockets. A professional with an income of 15,000 euros will have a relief in 2019 compared to 2018 of 500 euros. We didn't say that it would have a 10 000-euro relief. And 1000 euros relief compared to 2016. I don't want to mention all the numbers and I don't want to tire with such reports. And since there was a great deal of talk, I think that this is not just about a million and a half workers, what we are voting on today. It's about another five hundred thousand. The State Secretary responsible will explain this in detail that some pensioners will not simply see that their pensions are not reduced. Five hundred and fifty thousand will see to it grow - it will explain it to you - from 1 January 2019, because of the recalculation of sums paid under Law4387/2016. Mr. Petropoulos is in charge, and I think he'll explain in detail. No, it is no exaggeration and no one is willing to be exposed for one or two months, because these will appear in the pockets of the workers, the retired. And to finish, to talk about the main pension: free professionals from 20% to 13.3%. Lawyers, engineers from 20% to 13.3%. Doctors from 20% to 13.3%. Farmers from 18% to 12%. But I would like to say something else, because it has become an incredible story with the 4.8 billion, which must be repaid by the profits of the Greek bonds of the European Central Bank. The European Commission's report, by definition, cannot lead to the approval of disbursement. The adoption in question is based on the first report, which follows on 31 December. It didn't stop anything. Every six months, that's what happens. As soon as December 31st, 600,000 -- because that's the amount -- they'll be returned. All this - and I do not want to refer to this bill any more - will be seen in their pockets by some workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I just want two minutes, Mr President, if I have them, to say that they have arrived at point five - six KINAL MPs going to Areos Ice and denounce an act concerning the current President of the Republic, Byron Polydora and Christos Marcoyannakis. Before I get to the President of the Republic, I would like to say this, to get it over with. The House has already decided in 2011 that there are no political persecutions for these three political persons. How much clearer can I say? I don't want to go into details. No one was blocking the then majority - we all know in 2011 who was a majority - if he wanted to go ahead with it. Why didn't he do it and he's coming down to talk about these three politicians? And Christos Markoyannakis - who I have no intention of defending him - has been insisting - for two years now I have heard him bring the case. He asks that man be examined and ignored. Byron Polydora, who happens to be my friend, and perhaps I'm a little influenced, did not dare, in all his political term, even in the hardest confrontations, to hurt him. And I find it appalling because a statement was made about the President of the Republic that 'We did not say about the President'. Instability, extreme misery to target today's President of the Hellenic Republic, who I do not need to support. Finally, I would like to say: I want to remind those who remembered the C4I that it is a story about the PASOK governments at that time. It's not about the New Democracy, I want to be fair. Don't get away with it, because the budget for the Olympic Games at the time was 5 billion, go 10. It's up to 30 billion and up the final line. So, let's remind you of this. I want to remind you of something else, and I'll be done. An effort is being made, because I hear that the same thing should have been done for NOVARTIS. That's what KINAL said. I would like to remind you that this is the third time some people have tried in court to block the 'NOVARTIS' investigation. Yesterday - yesterday - the Court of Appeal rejected and adopted the proposal from the Prosecutor of Staata that the investigation into "NOVARTIS" is continuing properly. The request for mistrial, made by the former Prosecutor of Corruption, will be discussed in March, without preventing this story. And I conclude by saying this: lately, they have come to the surface of supposedly scandals. One is funding the refugee with 1.6%. Vitch, for those who heard him, he was a catapult. There's no such number. The Greek state managed a lot of transparency in 497 million. Not half as much. They say something about Elefsina's airport.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have promised to be done. Don't be considered a political promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u80	I shall conclude, Mr President. Something tells Spirtzi about the Triumph and they say something about the ELPEs in Stathakis. I would tell them that despair is not a good counselor, especially when combined with fanaticism and micropsy. Tone down. There are scandals and there must be. Not to invent fantasy scandals, just because we see that everything is falling apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, even late. Mr. George Mavrotas, rapporteur of the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I'll stay in 15 minutes strict. This bill comes mainly to correct dramatic failures of insurance policy n.4387/2016. A law we have been talking about since then, when it was discussed in Parliament, that it is not sustainable. With this law, because insurance contributions were linked to income, many freelance professionals and self-employed persons suffered a significant bleeding of insurance contributions. The insurance system has essentially become an additional tax system with higher rates. This hit mainly the middle-incomes, the medium-term entrepreneurship, which is also the engine of the Greek economy. After all, all the scientists who came to our committee said so on Monday. Now, basically, the government accepts with two and a half years delay that the “the tie” movement, as contemptuously called them in May 2016, was ultimately right. We've said it before. The Katorugalou law, however much as it can be amended - we have lost count of how many times it has been amended - cannot be a basis for an insurance system that is sustainable, which favours work and future generations. And here they really match what the Prime Minister said about ENPIA: The Katorugalou law is therefore a law "unreasonable, uncorrected, abolished". And you are abolishing it by successive interventions and amendments. This bill reduces the huge insurance contributions for freelance professionals and self-employed persons, but the problem remains. For example, as of 1 January 2019, a self-employed person who has a net profit of EUR 30 000 will have a net balance of EUR 13,401, i.e. 55% will go to taxes and insurance contributions. And if he wants to work longer and make 50 thousand euros a year, then out of the 50 thousand he will have 18,565 euros, 63% will be taxes and insurance contributions. In other words, imagine how unbearable the situation would be even before the current reduction in insurance contributions, which had so unreasonablely increased. That is why we say that even after this really improvement, these people are basically from one point to another, and then only work to pay taxes and contributions, so they have no incentive to work more, to expand and create new jobs. If we go to the employees, we will see that the same applies to the non-wage labour cost. For a net salary of 25 thousand euros, that is about 1,780 to 1,800 euros a month for a scientist, the employer's cost is 48,000, i.e. twice over. And then we wonder why the scientific staff don't live in our country. How can middle-level staff be recruited with satisfactory wages when we have this employer cost? That is why, in our view, insurance contributions from income must be disconnected, linked to an income range, with the possibility of selecting certain scales and whoever wants to choose higher than the minimum step, and whoever wants to get a higher pension. Today's bill, at least Articles 1 to 7 on reductions in contributions, is a step in the right direction, a step towards relief, even small for the free traders, for the self-employed and for the farmers, and we will support it. We hope that there will be further bills of reduction and tax, and here we will also be supporting them. It's too late than never. Let's go to some more specific issues. At the hearing of the bodies, the President of the TEI, the Technical Chamber of Greece, asked you to see the arrangement in forty instalments of the engineers' debts so far. We'd like you to tell us if that's something you're considering. Furthermore, Article 1( 11a) specifically provides for a provision for lawyers to pay customers a recovery note per legal act for their insurance contributions in excess of the fee. The question is: Why only for lawyers and not engineers? Should we wait when an engineer takes over, hear the engineers or later a doctor, hear the doctors? Let's go to chapter 2. Articles 8 to 22 contain essentially insurance and pension provisions for a number of themes of the ancillary funds. These are provisions to improve the existing ones after the first period of operation. We won't be negative, but all of this is embodied in the carelessness of the first piece of legislation. Articles 23 to 29 deal mainly with matters of better implementation of labour legislation. Article 23 provides, in essence, a representation of political appeals for paid remuneration and redundancies. Workers are, for the first time, entitled to stand as political plaintiffs in criminal proceedings against employers on account of the failure to pay them or compensation due, and so they must be. In Article 24 there is an increase in the APRC inspection departments, i.e. labour inspectors. Two new sections are set up, one in Grevena and one in Orestiad. We have no objections if this really contributes to the better functioning of the EIA. The question, however, is whether it is a fragmentary one, namely whether there are other areas with similar topics for labour inspectors, and whether there is a whole plan for the reorganisation of this House geographically, so as to improve its action and, at the same time, that there are no permanent phenomena in a region, but inspectors should rotate so that sympathy and dependency are not created. Article 25 provides for a legal representation of the special secretary of inspectors and other servants. It is indeed appropriate to have an integrated framework for the protection of labour inspectors in order to protect themselves in cases where they are involved in judicial cases. This is the case, with representation and representation by a member of the Legal Council of the State. The state must protect employees and especially those who, due to their work, are often involved in legal disputes. With Article 26 on criminal offences against the special secretary of inspectors and other servants, a series of offences, such as extinction, false repression, physical harm, etc. is defined as a particularly prejudicial occasion. in the course of the audit work of the labour inspectors. We agree, since the inspectors often come up against aggressive behaviour by the controlled. We wonder whether these protective provisions should also be extended to other categories of workers in the public who have control powers, such as ILOs, environmental inspectors, etc. In Article 27, in fact, the OAED aims are to ensure the free movement of the unemployed - registered in its registers - through public transport, since the unemployed are already provided for free movement. The reason why it needs to change the framework and include that competence in the objectives of the OAED is precisely that the OAED has the relevant data, i.e. the relevant register of the unemployed. Article 28 is the participation of the Industrial Association of Northern Greece in the OAED Board of Directors and the Committee of the EPP. This provision is obviously the application of the provisions of Article 41 of Law 4554/2018, which was recently passed and recognised the link between the Northern Greece Industries as an equal social partner. I would remind you that in this article, Potami had voted'residents' on the grounds that the same recognition should have been made for the other regional associations of industries. Let's go to the last articles, from 30 to 37. I will begin with Articles 34 and 35 on the establishment and coverage of organic positions of supervised bodies. This creates three hundred forty-forty-one organic posts for permanent staff in seventeen supervised bodies of the Ministry of Labour - it is appropriate. The annual cost is estimated at EUR 4.7 million for 2020 and then these positions, as the Deputy Minister told us, will normally be made under SAEP procedures. In 2019, however, where these structures are to function, the cost is EUR 5.8 million, i.e. EUR 1.1 million more for 2019, which is - supposedly - the transitional stage, compared with 2020 that we will have the organic positions. The question, which has not been answered to the committees, is how this difference of EUR 1.1 million arises. In fact, last Thursday Mrs Fotou said that the officials are at the moment less than the required organic positions. Are they less and we have more costs of EUR 1.1 million? There are two few, then, here: Or there has been a mistake and there are more workers right now than the organic positions in these structures or from 2020, and then they will receive smaller wages. For three hundred and forty - one persons in fact, you get 250 euros less a month. There is no other explanation within the specific mathematical framework. In Article 36, the number of members, on the basis of this Article, of the boards of social welfare centres may be increased from seven to eleven. The Deputy Minister explained to us that it is for all the supervised bodies to enter the administrative boards, which differ from region to region. The question, however, is: Regardless of the operators' request, did the Ministry find that the administrative boards were not working well? Is this necessary to increase positions on the members of the board of directors, which costs EUR 163,000 on the basis of the report from the General Accounting Office of the State? EUR 163,000 is not too small. It's about two new ambulances. In Article 37, on behalf of the staff of the EMCDDA's regional offices, after two and a half years of recommendation, the regional offices of the National Institute of Labour and Human Resources are abolished from 1-1-2019. Staff are transferred to various supervised bodies - the AAR, the OAED - as part of this reorganisation, and they will be there if they are to make better use of them there. According to this article, also the period between the removal of offices until the employment of officials to the new institution takes place, is considered to be a real service and the remuneration will normally be paid. So that we do not have a slow payroll - I imagine that the procedures for matching workers to the new operators will have already begun - a timetable should be set in Article 37, a deadline for posting the list with the reception services so that these employees will not have a long time actually in which they will be inactive. For example, to provide that the post is to be posted as 10-1-2019, so that they have after 15 days to declare preferences. In conclusion, I would like to close a little more generally on the main subject of the bill, which is our insurance system. When we have 1,3-1,4 employees per pensioner, no system can be sustainable. In fact, when the new salaries of young workers are EUR 500 and EUR 600, how will pensions of EUR 800 be financed? And I have parents, and they wait anxiously at the end of the month to go and get their pension. We have as a one-thematic field discussion whether or not pensions are being cut. This is done by both the Government and the Civic Opposition and by a large part of the other Opposition by the media. It is a zealous election, television and professional clientele, that pensioners and, of course, the combination of all of them together. Instead of building political, journalistic careers on this subject, instead of driving people crazy about cuts or no pensions, let's see how we can attract investment. We will discuss the budget in the next few days and we need to see a number that is very worrying. We anticipated an increase of 11% last year for the Gross Ice capital formation in 2018 for investments. We finally achieved 0.8%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. We also anticipated a growth rate of 2.5% last year for the country's GDP growth. We finally get close to 2%. These are the numbers that should be worried about us and putting all our attention to ourselves. To increase production, then, we must attract investment. We need to create jobs so that the insurance system can be healed. If pensioners care about their pensions, they should first of all be concerned about whether their children and grandchildren can find a job so that they can fund the pensions of their fathers and grandparents. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do not demonise the private initiative. Business is not only created by recruitment in the State, but only by posters. Don't easily baptize neoliberal what's non-state. We have also seen this recently in the debate on the Review of the Constitution for Article 16. Do not let the ideas that exist in your area - fortunately not everyone - kick the opportunities that we have as a country. In Greece we have to make it a serious decision at some point, that is to say, by looking at the next generations and not just at the next polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too. Mr Megloumustakas, rapporteur of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start by making it clear that the Centro Association will be voting in favour of this bill, which concerns the reduction of insurance contributions for freelance professionals and a large group of Greece's people, which has been shaken by the bad policies that have been followed. So to explain our vote, I shall be speaking on it. What I want to say to you is that this measure - you know it, and I think the coup d'état - is not enough to get out of this junk in which the Greek economy is fighting, loaded with the tax burdens, loaded with the weights of insurance contributions and all the other problems, which have come in recent years with the crisis. What you should see is how you could make Greek businesses viable. It has been heard from all sides in this Chamber today that this measure alone is not enough. It is not enough and we do not see a prospect of new investment in Greece, that the existing companies will open their wings and fly higher, as we have seen that in many cases, in the majority, the free trade income goes to the Greek public and does not live in their pockets. Even with this reduction in insurance contributions, which will not be understood as you think, in the way you think, free professionals in their pockets, as SYRIZA and ANELs do not say that the recalculation of the contributions comes at 100%, before tax, in the case of businesses. I don't know which countries they want development is the case. I'd like an answer, if you know that, if you've investigated it. For us, it is unreasonable to tax the cigarette once and to come back to tax it by means of insurance contributions. I don't know where you're looking at these and how you think they're gonna pay off to the real economy. We have been here these years where the Centroon Association is in Parliament and we have told you, we have shown you what your mistakes are. You guys didn't listen. This bill confirms this, which I tell you, as you have come to reduce, correct, that is, a law that you have brought, and indeed, you have presented it as beneficial to the economy. He wasn't beneficial, so you're changing him and reducing insurance contributions. I do not think any politicians in Parliament would oppose reducing social security contributions today in Greece, where the world is facing problems. So what do we say? Before bringing a proposal, discuss it first with your colleagues in Parliament and then by setting up a committee to discuss it with all the bodies involved in this draft law, which you want to table. What you have achieved, of course, by continuing the work of the New Democracy PASOK, which you have ruled until you take over, is to create a counterproductive climate, a field in which Greek and foreign investors cannot act. If you walk to the market, what you will hear from the businessmen is 'it is no good for us to work'. It does not interest them, because as long as their turnover rises, which in many cases can be more than doubled, the profit they will have will be minimal. Did you hear Mr. Mavrotas' example that a man who makes a turnover of 50,000 will barely put 18 000 in his pocket, which is of course a good number, but do you know what it means to a free professional to make 50,000 cigarettes right now? He must work all day, all night, he must be in stress about how he responds to paying his employees, how he will respond to the payment of the insurance contributions and you come as a major shareholder in his business. You mustn't go on like this. In this bill, other measures and other provisions should be in place to alleviate Greek entrepreneurs and especially the medium-sized ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u85	Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u86	Slowly, but I don't know how much the Greek economy can withstand slowly. You've been in the government for three years. I have heard from many of the committees today the rapporteurs from SYRIZA and ANEL talk about hunger wages imposed by the New Democracy and the PASOK. You're right. Three years you are ruling, though, with you too, the wages of hunger are maintained at that level, poverty and poverty. We saw that the Greeks couldn't handle this. And we saw two hundred and fifty thousand scientists, people who have finished higher education, leaving abroad. In addition to the cost we had in our economy, because we studied these people, the Greek state, that's what paid the universities and the teachers, their parents paid the rents and living costs of these students, as soon as they got their degree, we gave them a gift abroad. That's a huge mistake. I don't know how much Greek still holds all these weights. So we can't go slowly. What we want are rapid solutions, immediate solutions, to finally breathe our economic system. It must not be forgotten in this Chamber - and especially those who belong to the wings that were governed up to now - that it is not only SYRIZA, who charged the Greeks with overtaxing the insurance contributions, reductions and the oppression in general of the incomes of Greek citizens. It's not those two and a half years, only the Greek citizen gets hit. Therefore, when the politicians who belong to the groups that have been ruling so far and put us in the crisis, they must speak very carefully and with great respect to the Greek citizens, because when we forget what they have done, then the Greek comes and punishes us by deceiving the political system. If you talk to people outside, in society, you will understand that no more or the majority of Greeks take politicians seriously. And how do they get them, when others say they do other things? Others say when it's Opposition and others do when they come to the government. Steadyness wants to. Stability wants to be believed by the world, as it wants stability and to be believed by the market to come and invest. We can't go up to this step and talk about an election period, say we want an immediate election, and when you ask for proposals on what you're going to do tomorrow not to be ready to answer. You need to know what to do. Also, we cannot accept what is being defended at the moment and what is being supported by the old PASOK, the new KINAL, which seeks examination for the memoranda. Who brought the memorials, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK? Who brought them? They were brought by PASOK, New Democracy, and now SYRIZA brought another and a half. Let's figure out what we're asking for. I have heard that they are defending and presenting Mr Simitis as the great leader of this country. I don't blame him, we're not a court in here. However, when we talk about some things, we must also keep in mind working a little more well and recover memories. How can we present him as the great leader of this country, when there was the stock exchange scandal in his day when there were armaments, when we saw what the "hole" was from the Olympic Games, which in fact all are deported and many may collapse. We have such an example in Serres, where a swimming pool that was to be built for 2004 is left, forappy, and the moisture eats its beets. We have not been smart, so we cannot accept a man as great leader, who has allowed our economy to collapse, and he has also been part of it. That is how our political system is being discredited, as is the case with statements from Parliament's non-democratic wing, I will say, when the speaker of the Golden Dawn blames Members for not being in the Chamber because they are not being paid. Who is now in Parliament from the Golden Dawn wing? Nobody. Who's inside the Committees? They only come to say what they want to say, without wanting to have a conversation, because that characterizes them. They're lonesome and they're leaving. If they want to blame someone, he should be the bad plan, with which some bills come, so we don't forget everything. Since we all see in this Chamber that tax should be reduced, we must reduce insurance contributions, we must reduce taxes on oil in general, we must reduce HPAI, then why are we not all sitting together talking? Why don't you do what the Centroon Association says from the outset, a big government? You saw that the government of the two parties, which cooperate in advance, but also the majority governments, did not have the anticipated effect for our Greece. So you should do wisely and sit at a table, since we all want the same, that is to say, the good of our country, to discuss. Because as you have done so far, all you can do is play the cat's game with the mouse with the lenders, as you come in here and tell us that "our lenders are imposing them" and then a little later you undo them, which would not happen if there were a serious government, strong, with which the lenders would negotiate. You saw very well that it didn't have to be 20% of the contributions to the FBI. You said from this step forward that there would be no reduction in duty. So why did you vote for them? Can I tell you why? Why did you not have the seriousness - and I am not talking about the faces, but about the structure of this government - to claim what has to be claimed by lenders, what suits the conditions currently prevailing in Greece. All you manage by acting unilaterally is to sow the division in Greek society. The Prespecies Agreement and the pre-agreement you made with the Church are examples of this practice. You must not go that way, comrades! You mustn't. What you should see, therefore, is the recovery of the economy, how you create new jobs, how you will strengthen production, not how you will help your own people. Three hundred and forty-one jobs open up with this bill. We say, "To help your own people." You do the opposite to disprove us. In every draft law to be voted on, you have positions that are then covered by people who will strengthen your party army. You must not accept it, especially you Members of the co-chairman. You should have reacted to all of this. We have also seen the preliminary draft budget - and I will close with it - which has been given to us and which is rather confused by the system, as we see that what you are asking is close to the 4% surplus and a little more than 2% growth. That should be the opposite. As much as you cut to create a surplus, this will not cause growth or a relief of the Greek economy. What you must do is strengthen the productive structures of the country, create a climate that is favourable to entrepreneurs, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Greek economy. I did not see any suggestion of strengthening or subsidising contributions, for example, for businesses that have one, two, three employees, for truly small businesses. So what you should put as a target when you bring a budget should be growth, strengthening our production. You must have an open mind, listen to everyone and have your look at the Greeks and those in Greece who want to help us get out of the crisis. Unfortunately, this has not been the case until now. Because both the Right and the Left, unfortunately, are emblems of their interests and ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the 4th High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are entering the list of speakers quickly. Mrs Eleni Aylonitos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law entitled 'Reduction of insurance contributions and other provisions'. In other words, we are talking today about what it means to the citizens that we are done with the programmes for financial adjustment, what it means to citizens from the memorandums, what the end of austerity for them means in practice. Today's bill comes to alleviate the self-employed, self-employed, and farmers by reducing their monthly insurance contributions to the main pension by 33% or 20% to 13.3% and thus creating a greater space for strengthening their available income. For farmers, the insurance contribution is reduced from 18% to 12% for 2019, while for young scientists it also falls to 13.3%. As for scientists, lawyers and engineers, the contribution for supplementary pensions is reduced only from 01-01-2017 to a minimum of 64,5 euros. Thus, with the current insurance reform, where 88% of the free professions, self-employed and farmers already paid less than the old insurance system, the new regulation will pay even less, thus linking contributions to real income. In particular, it will be a relief regulation for the remaining 22% of the free professions, who have actually been in favour of the right for this whole period. There is therefore a fair treatment for the payment of insurance contributions, where the insurance system is now taking into account the actual income of the insured person and not the number of years one is in business, as was done with the previous insurance system, regardless of whether it has a profit or a loss. In order to be able to make substantial comparisons, however, let us see today what the Civic Opposition proposes to reduce insurance contributions. It proposes a horizontal reduction from 20% to 15% in all categories of professionals. The New Democracy, in other words, proposes the collapse of the public insurance system, which with so much effort and sacrifices has managed to retreat. It is well known that the current government has received an insurance scheme of EUR 1.1 billion. There are four hundred thousand unpaid pension benefits and he has managed to do so by 1 billion. Excessive. But the question remains. How New Democracy and the PASOK, after applying 12 pension cuts with 44 billion euro pension cuts - resulting on an average reduction in pensions by 37% - were able to deliver an insurance system with a deficit of EUR 1.1 billion. Euros? How did you do it, really? So many cuts and you couldn't bring the system up? You are about the Gina Book, earning the inability record! So now you prefer a horizontal reduction in insurance contributions by five points. Are you saying that to slowly deliver the insurance system north to the insurance companies - as you prefer to your programme - starting with the choice of the person insured for private subsidiary insurance? The reduction in insurance contributions to the free traders, which we are voting on today, is one of the great countermeasures that the opposition said that there are no and that only measures exist. Nowadays, therefore, gentlemen, your destructiveness is being devastated once again, as there are no measures. On the contrary, there are only countermeasures, i.e. only arrangements for the relief of citizens, only arrangements that are trying to improve the injustices, the failures, which were impossible with the implementation of the memorandum to be avoided. So, having run out of arguments, you are now giving up on us for the range of countermeasures, which until first you were ironing. Don't peek at me! Everything will be applied to both the number and size as announced by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. One by one, therefore, the countermeasures, gentlemen of the Opposition, will raise your hand to vote on them. And the reduction of HISPIA, the housing allowance, and the reduction of business tax and so many others, as well as the social dividend for 2018, to be granted to the citizens for the third consecutive year. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget was tabled yesterday, which does not include pension cuts, as you wished. When we were trying to negotiate and the International Monetary Fund demanded a reduction in pensions, you rubbed your hands. "Lock yourself up with so many more measures," you told us. And when we fought to counter extortion, at least trying to push for countermeasures, to balance the burden of the citizens, you, gentlemen of Officer Response, with air in your sails for the displeasure that the reduction in pensions would cause to the citizens, considering that in this way you would bring up your percentages, you assured us, with your Vice-President, in spring 2018, that the pension cuts will be made and the New Democracy will respect the agreed rates. So caring for retired people! You arrived at the point where you left Mr. Moskovis in the House when he left the possibility of not cutting pensions open, as you had already incorporated it into your programme. And then you were hypocritically running to table a proposal for a law in order not to cut off, supposedly, pensions, while at the same time, you went and whimpered at the lenders not to do the favor in Tsipras and did not demand compliance with the agreed pension cuts. So caring for retired people! To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that as many distortions as you can do and that you lie, as much hypocrisy and courage as you can, people and pensioners know who broke their lives and that this government continues its efforts to increase income, to increase rights, to strengthen the social state. But now, just put aside the dangers, disasters and grievances because you lost three elections, and you will lose the fourth one - and, making your heart stone, you come to vote for the reduction of insurance contributions, a countermeasure that is invisible to you in the New Democracy, but no matter what, it is visible in the world of work, which the SYRIZA Government - ANEL sees the focus of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Mrs Aylonitou, you are making your hearts a stone with this bill that you are voting on, because the bill under discussion to reduce insurance contributions is essentially a grand mea cuulpa of your government. And instead of that mistake of being self-criticistic, here, and a public apologies for the government partners towards the freelance professionals, who put them two feet on a shoe, we are living an absurdity: the government celebrates the abolition of a law which it itself voted on a celebration. In fact, your ministers have said happy, because they are walking on the street and they are receiving spontaneous events of admiration from shopkeepers and congratulating free professionals for their good. I don't see Mr. Petropoulos here. At that time, the members of the government majority defeated all of us, the MPs of the opposition, who criticised the Katorugalou law, pointing out that it would bring extra burdens to entire productive groups, who were already fighting from the crisis. And you did it, not only with lawyers, doctors, engineers, and free professionals, who were then on the road with the so-called "the tie movement", but also for farmers who were shocked, as they were largely lured in 2015 and supported your populist and demagogic positions. Your choice then showed the ideological obsession, which holds you against the productive powers of the country, to those who fight with gods and demons to cope in one of the most influential business environments in the world. However, you did not hear us and proceeded with the increase in insurance contributions. And along with the rapid increase in taxes in an economy, which is literally draining, with investments that we see with the glass, you have kneeled the middle class - and you have consciously done so! - attempting to give a class mark to your policy. And now, under the general outcry, the fleeing of thousands of new scientists and the inability to pay insurance contributions, you are copying the New Democracy programme. However, you are doing so fragmented and unrealisticly, not only with the contributions, but also with HISPIA, which you would once abolish or the announcements to reduce the tax rates that you have increased. You are trying to convince that your policy was a'success story'. Except the markets don't trust you. The interest rate instead of reducing is increasing. Yesterday, it exceeded 4.8%. It's forbidden. And that is why it is not only Italy, but also the messages you send out with your political humiliations, such as the ones with the Church and the ten thousand new assignments you place in the position of clergymen who will be sacked by the public. But, although they won't be civil servants, you promise to continue paying them with an allowance you'll give to the hierarchy. And that's what you want the markets to see as normality. Your policy has damaged the country by 100 billion euros. You have consecrated the antiquities of the place in the eternal superstition. You encapsulated the economy in a vicious cycle of bloody surpluses until 2060. Your governance will, in fact, remain in history as a waste of four years. Four years to return to the end of 2014 on much worse terms. Behind the falsification campaign of reality, which you have unleashed for the so-called memorial Greece, the predominant reality, experienced by the average citizen, the one faced by the worker, who lives with the nightmare of dismissal, the professional who is struggling to take it on, the young man who works with part-time employment or insecure, the unemployed person in despair. Because with your policies - when with a clean mind, when with Madour and when with Merkel - you have led more than half the Greeks - 5.7 million - to owe insurance funds and the public the sum of 137 billion euros. And you come now that the elections are coming, and you're going to ball as much as you have said. And you do it again in an unspeakable way, without telling the whole truth to the people, with whom, obviously, you are finally divorced. Because the reduction in insurance contributions, which you bring, will not be 33%, but less, as from 1-1-2019, on the basis of the calculation of insurance contributions for freelance professionals and self-employed persons, will include all insurance contributions paid last year and will stop the issue of 15%, which was in place for the calculation of the 2018 contributions. We were in the first place opposed to extermination of insurance contributions, while what is needed is to give breath to the productive forces of the place, to finally pull the train of development. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, for you the chief concern is your foggy policy tomorrow and to achieve it, you see no one before. You refuse to pay overdue public debts and you are cutting off the public investment programme by 550 million to show surpluses. Explore the number of contractors you are mocking them by closing their eye of simulation. You are once again feeding on everything, threatening to drugize the country's course for your own micropolitical interest. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, however, your moves look like the drowned one who is caught by his hair, to be saved, and that is why they are doomed to fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u91	Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged, as the first speaker from the Democratic Assent, to respond to the issues of the bill before I come to his spokesman in six symptoms and the abusives of Mr Kammenos, who has invoked us from here, for we have exercised our parliamentary duties. What, then, did the Members of the Democratic Alliance do? We have tabled a question to the relevant Minister of Justice and we are telling him what happened with the adjournment No 1732/23-10-2017 of the Adolescents Council? Why didn't he come to the House? Why have the parliamentary procedures not been followed? Whether or not to go to the principle of combating black coke money. It is our parliamentary right and we are doing so, and we will see the answers that the Minister and the prosecutor of the Ice Bay will give us, which we have visited, in relation to her own duties. We did not involve the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic involved him with his announcement yesterday and tried to reproduce him from this step by Mr Kammenos's representative. I say these things because we have said and I repeat, that justice, yes, must be blind. It's not allowed to be. It is not allowed to look at how it suits it, because we have learned about openings of accounts, without any arguments being made. So here, where there are procedural proceedings, we want to know exactly what is going on. That's all for now. I'm coming to the bill now. It was said by many speakers of the opposition parties who preceded this party the Stepma that the government dismantles the Katorugalos law, Law No.4387/2016. That is not entirely accurate. It has a part of the truth, because the government which in May 2016, when the Katorugalou law was passed, told us that it is making a fair system, accepts retrospectively and with a very long delay that it imposed a second tax on free professionals and farmers, by linking social security contributions to income. The information we have presented has been presented by our rapporteur, Mr Constantopoulos, earlier. That is, that the reported incomes of the free professionals decreased in 2016, by 20%, prove this. Because in 2016, the country suddenly did not get poor. The same financial data as in 2015 we had. And he's coming now, yes, to make a little relief. However, the Katorugalou law keeps him at risk, as, ladies and gentlemen, the logic of linking contributions to income remains. The government could, if it wanted, discuss the amendment we have tabled, which says that we need to disconnect insurance contributions, step up them, of course taking into account income with a lower and higher threshold. The Minister has not yet taken the floor, but we expect her to answer us. And I hope he'll answer us for much more. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the Katorugalou law remains unscrupulous, as, if I understood well yesterday from Mr Juliarakis's statements, Mrs Ahtsoglou will tell us better - we are not talking about cancelling the pension cut measure. I do not know how the wording will be described when it comes to Parliament. So I read to you how it should be: 'Articles 1 and 2 of Article 1 and Article 2 of Law 4472 are repealed'. It is the provision you have voted on and it says that personal differences will be cut. This provision, which we have tabled with a proposal for a law, must be voted on and voted on by roll-call vote to rinse out the vagina of your previous vote. And the question raised to you and the government is: The personal difference in Article 14 will remain in the biennial, without even informing those to whom the pensions have been recalculated, so that they may know what is awaiting them in the future? We, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a proposal for a law - we presented it in the Senate Hall the day before yesterday - which is in the form of processed legal provisions. It describes what issues we need to resolve in the socio-security system. It says, for example, in Article 3, that we need to relieve young people for five years from insurance contributions. It says that we need to make the irresponsible account to the freelance professionals, that we need to enable those who owe them - freelance professionals and farmers - to retire, because today you are not giving them the opportunity to regulate their debts. It's Article 10. He even says we need to disconnect the income contributions, as I told you earlier. It is the amendment that we tabled. I mention it, so that Mrs Ahtsoglu may have it in front of her. It also says that Article 20 must be repealed. With Mr. Petropoulos I have often exchanged views in this Chamber on Article 20 of the Katorugalos Act, which says that to anyone exercising agricultural activity, 60% of his pension is cut. In other words, a man who inherited a parcel, a lactation, and a vine, must sell it to the public. Mr. Petropoulos has found a dubious legality arrangement for a transitional nature. If you want, remove it, Mr. Petersburg, since we had discussed this issue. We said it was the Katrugalo Law. We have proposed in Article 25 to address the problem of poverty pensions under the Katorugalou law at the level of national pension. And we say, 'better pension of EUR 500 for one person and EUR 700 for the two people'. We have also proposed the hundred and twenty instalments for those who owe them to the insurance funds. More than 30 billion is due to the insurance funds. Are you going to do this? Who's blocking you? There's no troika anymore. We got out of the memoirs, didn't we? So? Bring in the first residence, Mr. Mada, and bring all the things that concern the poor, the impoverished, the oppressed, you're supposed to represent. And not to say everything because our proposal has been tabled, you are well-known, it has gone to the General Accounting Office, I want to tell you this only by ending: Do not think you can create new delusions and mock the people once again, saying that we came out of the Memorandums, while you are implementing a tough memorandum policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u93	Along with the memorials, time is over, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr. Gregus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. An amendment has again been tabled, which is an entire bill from what we see and the relevant ministers have also come to support it. What else can we say? We have heard from the end of the memorandum, until the known indulgence of the last few days, but always with the approval of lenders and, of course, with the purpose of collecting votes from the governing structure. So that was yesterday, and this is what is happening today, and it will also be at all the next meetings. The benefits and reliefs are, of course, to save your upcoming election crash. Now you remembered everything? Do you have the people for the spoon? After stealing pensions, you exaggerated everyone and everything, you have implemented all the memoranda measures, you are applying the well-known practice of voting through benefits, allegedly benefits and allegedly reliefs. HNVIA is an illegal tax, which you said you would abolish. The trade fee is also an unreasonable and unfair tax which must be abolished from everywhere. The amendments you bring to extortion are aspirin in very deep disease. The governments of PASOK and New Democracy have been taking care of the downfall and dismantling of the insurance funds for years. And of course, the SYRIZANELs continue on the same road. After all, there is nothing different from the above parties. It is precisely the same policies, the same tactics, the same tragic results. What did you do to combat smuggling? What did you do about the hindrance? What have you done for the pensions and allowances that so-called imprisoned poachers have been receiving for years? Who forgets the hordes of Albanians who came home, found jobs, most did not pay contributions to the funds, made the money in Albania and now they even threatened us with war? Who? Albanians, who usually have some kind of trade. We have said this before: Pensioners are waiting for up to two years to get their juggled pension. But when they are workers, in any sector, if they are late in paying contributions to the funds, the so-called rule of law imposes direct or indirect strict sanctions. No, gentlemen! As you require the payment of the insurance contributions in good time, the next day you will have to pay the pensions that pensioners are entitled to. You have no right to steal from them the money they have paid with economic sacrifices and not to delay them. This is their right and obligation of a rule of law. You say there are no cuts in the main pensions. But when the retired person goes to the bank and then he's looking at his pocket, he's going to pay the bills or shop the living, he's not looking from where that money comes from, he's not looking at what money it is, whether it comes from a main or an ancillary pension. You say there are no pension cuts in the electoral budget. That's ridiculous and outrageous. You celebrate, in other words, that it will not negotiate a new crime against retired people, since, of course, you went as a disgrace to the lenders and begged for it, while at the same time stating your submission. What about the development you had announced, and we're still waiting for it? As for the unemployment that is falling, as you say, this is a huge lie and the figures are virtual. We all know what is happening on the labour market. Have you really taken a walk in the districts of Athens, Thessaloniki, all towns, even with a police escort? Do you know the thousands of businesses, the large and small shops that are closed and the windows are there for sales and rentals for too many months? And within all of this, you continue to settle your own children in new or old public positions or creating new and useless positions, committees, councils and much more. That's how previous people did it, too. When will you be apologising for the abolition of CSR and widow's pensions, for the reduction of the minimum wage and so many others? Of course, you continue to fill your bank accounts and collect the relevant government funding. The highest social security contributions in the Memorandum years, combined with the robbery overtaxation of everything, led to the economic impoverishment of employees, farmers, pensioners, free traders, seafarers and almost all branches and neutralised any trace of primary or secondary production in the domestic economy and any possibility of producing wealth either as individuals or as a state. Everything was sacrificed by the manikins of our employees and our monitors, thanks to this ultimate purpose, to preserve their interests at all costs, even though this would mean the financial impoverishment of Greek citizens and the complete depreciation of our national economy. It seems - and this has already been pointed out by many special analysts - that the bait in this case is any reduction in insurance contributions announced. However, the scarce trap is the imminent reduction in the payroll, resulting in additional pensions being converted into crumbs and one-off pensions, as long as the calculation is now to be made on the basis of reduced insurance contributions. With regard to Article 2, issues relating to the repayment of the debts of ECAI to pharmacies and committed private health service providers shall be regulated. There is still bureaucracy and the inconsistencies of the State and, in this case, of the EBRD as regards the repayment of dues to private individuals. This is a long-term pathogenousity of the social security system, which, in addition to leading thousands of firms in the health sector, continues to promote the image of the state of a mispaid or state of extortion, a convict against citizens. Article 32 shall be considered as legitimate the costs of the ELTIF, incurred in 2017 by way of derogation from any general or specific provision, as referred to in the draft law and relating to electronic costs of the body. The amount to be borne by the State budget shall be close to EUR 1 million in accordance with the report of the General Accounting Office, and no particular data justifying the amount of such expenditure shall be reported. Article 36 gives the possibility of increasing the members of the administrative boards of social welfare centres from seven to eleven. In this case it is estimated that some 163 000 euros will be spent annually. This is another rhetorical arrangement made by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to prevent and serve its party audience in the run-up to the forthcoming elections. For the amendment to digital policy, yesterday we had a bill on it. Why wasn't he testified? And it seems in this amendment that we have again increased the minister's responsibilities. However, over the figures and the economic data are national issues. In almost all the schools in Macedonia, the students rise and shout together with the Greek people "not in treason". A big one for children, for parents, for all the Greeks who resist. It is, we are, and we will be the hope of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u95	Mr Moraite has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Coupling mocks farmers ruthlessly. Since your policy has led them to poverty, to extinction, to extinction, you are now trying to gold out the pill of extinction with some reductions of crustaceans in insurance contributions and the other measures to provide a poorhouse, which you are planning to bring in the next period for populace, which your policies and the previous ones have led to extreme poverty. What are you doing with the bill we're talking about? In Article 3 you replace Article 40 of Law No.4387/2016, the abortion law. After giving rises to fire in this law, you are now coming to make some reductions to a small part of the insured farmers and others. We are not indifferent, even with those crumbs that may give a breath. But we are not going to squeeze in the direction of disorientation. In particular, the reduction for farmers concerns farmers with incomes for a couple of 10,000 and with a minor member of more than 15 000. Do you, gentlemen, who has led your policy, the common agricultural policy of the European Union, which is implemented over the years by all governments? 90% of farmers have income under these amounts, to absolute poverty. This measure is not about the vast majority of farmers, as is the trade tax. When you were voting for the law, what were you talking about in this Chamber? That this law will make Greek farmers the big winners, that with 15 years of insurance they will receive a national pension of EUR 344 and 20 years of insurance they will receive a national pension of EUR 386. Do you know how much they get today with the Katorugalu law? Those who came out last year receive a national pension of EUR 23 and those who come out this year get 46 euros and all the national pension will take it after 15 years in 2032. And you also have them unpaid this year's pension from July and they will receive a pension of EUR 320. Do you know what you were talking about in this Chamber before you became a government? That farmers' hunger pensions, which were at the time EUR 460, would also be increased today in your memorial period and this hunger pension - tipping, EUR 320. You've been taken by the farm. Your barbaric policy against poor farmers has no end. Farmers are not entitled to sick leave even for accidents at workplaces. Farmers are not entitled to leave for pregnancy and predatory leave. For all of this, breathe from your government. Don't tell us it's irrelevant to the bill. It's very relevant. We're talking about farmers' insurance. Farmers need to see clearly here that only with their struggle can overthrow this anti-population policy, see that the struggles work. Forty-five days on the roadblocks in 2016 forced you through hard memorials and farmers gained the application of the insurance contribution measure gradually to 2% for five years, as well as other conquests. The firm position of the JRC, the consistent agricultural movement, is the reduction of insurance contributions. However, what are you doing today to break farmers' racing minds and get your anti-popular policy through without obstacles? You've turned the country into a vast farmhouse. Yesterday, in Amalada, the president of the Farm Association and another farmer in twelve months' time was sentenced. In your homeland, Mr. Petropoulou. They were convicted of fighting for right, because that's what the Prime Minister said with hypocrisy before he became a prime minister when he was walking around the blocks. We say: here, and now under pension of EUR 600 for the farmer, for the farmer, for the HEALTH, for the women, at 55 for the women, at 60 for the men. The productive potential of the country and the working people for these amounts can be tolerated. What they can't stand is the competitiveness of profitability, of the monopolistic groups you serve and of the rest of capitalism's shepherd. The main thing, however, is that you are still linking the farmer's contribution, as well as the self-employed, to the lower part of the worker, i.e. if workers manage to get EUR 751 minimum wage and more for their modern needs, then you are trying to turn farmers and self-employed workers and rub your hands with the industrialists and the shipowners you are serving. You're Planning. The poor farmhouse won't make you the gift. Their objective allies are the workers, the self-employed and their opponents are your monopolies and your policy. It will be day after day when the social alliance is built and then you will lose eggs and baskets. You say that, with your relief, the budget will be charged by EUR 19 million per year. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At the same time you are burdening the country's budget with 4 billion a year for NATO. Very galantic, simple and simple you are about NATO. For farmers, however, other social groups, crumbs. With paragraph 4 that keeps them, you tell them that whoever has to pay more is going to get more, while whoever doesn't have to pay, let him die. You're doing the capitalists' dream of rewarding insurance. So you're fooling around talking about redistribution. With paragraph 8, you are characterizing the farmer for the rural area, and this should be financed exclusively by the budget. You, too, abolish this minimum funding. The same applies to health, which should be free of charge. We say those who have little income, who even your own European Union characterises as poverty, do not pay euros and their insurance in the state of capital and do not pay euros for their health. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] You are making this arrogant in terms of 695 a health contribution to the bill. Now you will tell us that it is not about today's debate, but from the same pocket you are grabbing it for main insurance and health. Under paragraph 9, you maintain the general anti-grass provisions of the Katrugalo Law, while under paragraph 10 you are authorizing ministers. We do not give any authority to your Government and, more generally, to the governments of capital and to the civilian staff of the capital states. With this in mind, we are tabling our own proposal in the Minutes for the insurance of farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether you should celebrate this bill or whether you should have your heads on the ground. The sure thing is that you have to say an apology to the world, to the taxpayers, to the self-employed and to the free traders, who have suffered a great deal of damage over the years. Of course the confession of your failure lies in this bill, since you correct your earlier bill, the catastrophic Katrugalos law, which, when you voted, you applauded. You then presented him as a reform that would bring legal certainty. It is a good thing that one realizes one's mistakes, even late. 'Good late, rather than never', we say, Mr President, Prime Minister. The point, however, is that the damage caused to free professionals and businessmen for many, is irreparable, as happened in the first half of the governance that you loaded the country, following a deception referendum, with inappropriate measures of EUR 15 billion for the world, with capital controls and unnecessarily recapitalisation of banks. The state put EUR 40 billion in this recapitalisation and EUR 15 billion in private. These EUR 40 billion in the state today have disappeared completely with the collapse on the stock market. Do you know what the EUR 40 billion corresponds to? In sixteen years, HISPIA, Prime Minister, who could have been saved by the Greek people. But then, how did you call it so nice? "We'll beat the bullies and dance the investors" or the other thing you said: "It was right and it was done." What happened? I'll tell you what happened: Half Greeks owe tax and late debts have passed EUR 103 billion. The 10-year bond spread is at 470% and our country is excluded from the markets. The forecasts for growth are constantly being reviewed downwards. The market is dying of a lack of liquidity, and you celebrate overcrowding, as if surplus comes from an increase in GDP, as if it were coming from a high rate of sustainable and sustainable growth and not from over-taxation of professionals, not from an increase in taxes, not from an increase in VAT, not from an advance of tax to 100%, not from a reduction of the Public Investment Programme of EUR 1.3 billion. And then came the Katorugalou law, which you so applauded when you voted for him. Now you come and reduce the insurance contributions of professionals, entrepreneurs and farmers by 33%. It is not 33% and you know it very well, because now insurance contributions will be calculated at 100% of net income, ladies and gentlemen, and these will also be added to the insurance contributions paid last year. And now you're celebrating again. Finally, you once made a mistake. Then, or now? Then I guess. The reduction in insurance contributions relates to a limited number of professionals. It is only about 20%, that is, two hundred and fifty thousand self-employed in a total of one million two hundred and seventy. That is, those who have an income of more than EUR 7,032. Of course, this reduction in insurance contributions also entails a reduction in pensions. So if anyone wants to get a bigger pension, they have to put his hand in a deep pocket. Now, with regard to the second part of the draft law on the administrative issues of the departments and agencies of the Ministry, these have been socially relevant in conjunction with the regulations on the movement of the unemployed and the work programmes which have, of course, existed for several years. And that's what we'll be positive about. However, the country is last in Europe as regards the consequences of social transfers and thus the fight against poverty. I'm not saying that. These are elements of EUROSTAT, just before yesterday, for which you can certainly not be proud, since people who live on the limits of poverty, or social exclusion, have fallen by 32% in the European Union, while our country is in the last place behind Bulgaria and Romania. And since Mrs Ahtsioglou, the Minister for Labour, is here, I would like to say that the figures for 'ERGANI', Minister, for October you know them very well. I don't think it's too honorable. We're not happy about that number. One hundred and twenty thousand negative balance positions are record numbers. Negative record.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u99	The year look.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u100	Therefore, the triumph that you have reduced unemployment when the corresponding statistics are talking about prevalence of flexible forms of work and employment by 62% compared with full employment, which is only 38%, is not correct. In any case, we will be positive in the arrangements, even though they are fragmentary. The main problem, of course, remains. It is the Katrugalou law, which we in a few months' time to be government will of course abolish, as our President, Mrs Mitsotakis, said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much. The President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. I had an unspeakable hope that Mr Mitsotakis would be courageous to come to the debate in the House today in this bill. Apparently, she makes safer choices. I will have the opportunity tomorrow to discuss university asylum with him. That's what I mean, safer choices. Because there it may still be destroyed, but on indefinite grounds. Because in the economy, disaster is probably over. As I was coming to the National Representation today, one day after the deposit of a budget - cut in the last eight years, which clearly illustrates what has been challenged for two years, namely that the economy is recovering and coming out of this unprecedented memorial adventure that the place has experienced, I wondered what the title of this intervention might be, addressing the headquarters of the MPs of the Anti-Population, the Officer, the Major and the Elassian, I think that the best title could be the question 'and now what will become of you without barbarians?' Hopes go, they're gone. It turned out to be fruits and from the memoranda we came out of formal and practical. We also salvage pensions and unemployment we reduce injustices. And the retrospectives we gave. Not only to the commissioners, but to all those who suffered injustices. And the insurance contributions are lowering. And the social dividend will give it back where there really is a need to give our fellow citizens with low incomes. But the main thing is that all the measures I announced in September in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition will be implemented one by one. So what will happen now is the question. And, of course, another question, ladies and gentlemen, to which I would like you to help me, is where did anyone go, if anyone saw it, this infamous fourth memorandum, which you, in a lymph, announced that it was coming for a year and we are looking to find it. I am also looking to find this fourth memorandum, as I am looking to find out where they went and these vulgar titles in the media, in the newspapers, who have been terrorizing retired people for more than a year, and not just that a storm is coming, that tsunami is coming, that cuts are coming. And here's the detailed tables of the pension cuts that pensioners will see and see and here's the papers and the broadcasts. My friend, Mr. Evas, should have spent a very difficult time sitting like a calculator to figure out how much each and every one of the retired people loses. Now it's good to see you. Now no one comes to recalculate these calculations to show what is saved in these people's income. Like, of course, and no one will bother to testify, to draw out the tables - I will refer to them a little - on the benefit of free professionals from the corrective action we are doing today. Of course, along with the publications, those krone, not all of them, of course, have been lost on the irreversible government which brings the toughest measures. So we are bringing a bill today, ladies and gentlemen, which is coming to make a very substantial correction, but I would like to make no more than that correction, to refer to one, in my view, which we have achieved under extremely difficult conditions. And I am referring to the great insurance reform, which has been criticised as much as any other, has been characterised as a catastrophic reform, a reform that is levelling everything and has been, but it is the reason that we are today on a economic recovery course and at the same time have managed to resolve a Gordian bond, which was before every government as a nightmare, not the years of the memorandum, of course the situation in the insurance system has deteriorated in the years of the memorandum, but I would say that it has come from the end of the 1990s, this nightmare, which concerns the non-violence of our insurance system. And I say successful because, not only did we receive a system of deficits, which was in the public budget today, and thanks to these surpluses of the Single Social Security Agency to a large extent today, we also have the possibilities that the Greek economy has to catch up with the objectives set and securely be able to share this social dividend every year, but above all because we have achieved consolidation and sustainability in a way that we are doing today, if you compare the contributions to the free professions, the self-employed and the self-employed, as a whole, and not just to the 85% -88% that was when the Katrugalo Law came, will be more favourable to the employees, the free traders, the self-employed. And that is indeed a great feat. With the bill, therefore, which the National Representation is now called upon to vote, we are making very significant reductions for about two hundred and fifty thousand unemployees. We are reducing contributions to the main pension by 33% for free-traded, self-employed and farmers. We are improving the scheme of discounts on contributions to young scientists. We reduce to a minimum the contribution for one-off - and indeed retroactively - from 1-1-2017 for self-employed scientists, engineers and doctors. And this package of interventions, measures is not an extraordinary and plentiful relief. It is part of a strategy that we have developed and implemented consistently over the last three years - I repeat - with a view to a sound, sustainable and fair public insurance system. It is, of course, a strategy that goes along with our main strategy, our main objective of retrieval of work in our country. No one will forget the days of 2014 where unemployment had climbed to 27%. Today, on the basis of the official figures, it is 18.9%, that is, we have an 8% reduction. Of course, we cannot get any serious arguments when we have more than three hundred thousand jobs in the three and a half years in governance, and especially in extremely difficult conditions, when we hear arguments that instead of seeing the big picture, they are caught from where they can be caught, like what I heard from the previous speaker - I was listening to you, do not think I was listening to you - where he said there was a great decline in October. Of course, because it's seasonal work. You have not, however, seen the unprecedented increase in employment throughout the last ten months, which contributes to these extremely important achievements against us by reducing total unemployment by eight points and by over three hundred thousand new jobs. Are we at the point where we can say that we need to be reassured? No, it remains at 18.9%, and our aim is to reduce even further and our aim is for work to be improved even further in terms of part-time work and stable work. No one can, however, argue that they are not achievements that demonstrate that the economy is recovering and that the country and the citizens have the potential to look at the future with more optimism. So I was saying that here we are talking about a healthy, sustainable and fair insurance system, which, of course, should be sustainable and healthy, we must have these rates of reduction of unemployment that we have had over the last three years and even more. The question, however, is that throughout the past period, especially in the years of the Memorandum of Adjustment, but also before the years of the Memorandum of Adjustment - we will not forget the other unsuccessful attempts to solve the unresolved problem of the sustainability of the insurance system in the period of Janitsi and other Ministers - the basic argument that came out of all those who presented themselves as reformers was to identify the concept of sustainability with injustice. They all wanted to convince us that there cannot be a sustainable insurance system if that is not unfair to many. We have therefore moved to the opposite side of this logic, and in difficult circumstances we have moved towards a major structural reform of the insurance system. We set up the insurance system again. As many as any other minister in our years has been George Karugalos. And then, of course, we proceeded to the "mother" of the reforms in the insurance system, which is the fund, the Single Social Security Body, which has been a vision since the beginning of the last century and, unfortunately, one would say - in years of great pressure from the Greek society and the Greek economy, but has been made by us. Just in the first year of operation of the Single Social Security Agency, our fund, EFKA, has become a surplus. And since 2015 - I want to give you this figure - to date, we have paid seven hundred eight thousand pension benefits, chiefly, subsidiary and one-off, totalling EUR 4.8 billion, while the previous governments have left us with almost four hundred thousand outstanding pensions. In other words, we have cleared up a double number of pensions in the past three years. And of course, we have cleared up this huge volume of outstanding late payment applications and proceed to important regulations and reforms, which give us a sense of security and certainty for the first time for our country's pensioners from 2010 onwards. It is undeniable that, despite Cassandra - and I will come back to this shortly after that, in relation to the Cassandra and the Cassandra forecasts - there will be no unnecessary measure and budgetary measures, but, if you like, the structure of the insurance reform, and I am referring to the reduction of pensions. The main thing, however, is - and I want to say this to you, because this is the first time that I, at least, have told the House, I do not know if the Minister said so in her speech - that not only will pensions be cut off on 1-1-2019, but also five hundred thousand pensioners, on the basis of that otherwise established Katrugalou law, from 1-1-2019 will see increases in their pensions. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] These increases will be of the order of 20 euros a month, but you know, ladies and gentlemen, for some pensioners, fellow citizens who have counted up to the last euro and who in your years have seen their pensions fall 40% and who have lived in unreliability cannot get a Christmas gift for their grandchildren and who have lived the terrorism of the media and yours that their pensions will be cut by up to EUR 300 on 1-2019, this 20th of the increase is your cake's pot of unreliableness. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But it is also proof of how important it is for this place to rule a government that cares for the weak, cares for the retired person and fights both in Europe and within the country in order to defend his own rights and his own right. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] Therefore, instead of reducing pension increases, we will have increases in pensions. This is because we have a reform that, for the first time in its structure, in its logic, has linked the real economic potential of the self-employed, to their insurance contributions. In other words, it abolished the former scheme of insurance, which arbitrarily increased the level of the contribution according to the years when someone was in the profession, but did not calculate the actual possibilities of the insured. The result of this reform has been favourable from the outset to a large majority of the insured, I said it before, despite what is said in the public speech. A million two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals, self-employed and farmers, 88% of all, until today, before we bring this positive correction, pays less contributions than those paid before the establishment and operation of the EMS. But there was, in this change, in this reform, and we have to admit it - we have admitted it from the first moment - a disadvantage involving 12%. In particular, it concerned self-employed and self-employed professionals who had an income from an average situation and above - small and medium-sized, I would say, to be absolutely honest - where they suffered a disproportionate burden. This burden, of course, has been a necessary sacrifice all this time, where they have'retard'ed' them, in order to save pensions, in order to rebuild our insurance system in order to ensure the low, lower pension for every Greek citizen and get out of the crisis. And today at the first opportunity, once we have the budgetary capacity, we come this part - if you wish - in the weakness of this system, that is, the injustice of citizens, to restore it. And of course, with this restoration, we have this feat, which I explained just before. Just three years after the complete collapse of the insurance system, we are now able to have a surplus insurance system that is viable in the long term, but also the most important of all, fairer than what we had known up to now. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go beyond the reduction in contributions and a number of interventions which, in my opinion, form a more comprehensive framework for the sustainability of the insurance system, but also to ensure the rights of workers and the promotion of work and the right of work in our country. I referred earlier to the decline in unemployment. In my opinion, however, it is also important that in the last three years the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and, of course, all the staff, all the people working at the Ministry of Labour, have made an excellent effort to combat chronic major pathogens involving the status and model of work in our country. I am thinking in particular of undeclared work and its fight against it. From 19% in 2014, it decreased to 12% today. This is due to the fact that the Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened, both by staff and by the establishment of new departments, but also by means of institutional armouring and a difficult effort has been launched in the course of the programmes, which continues with this bill, which is of course due to the political will to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate and not to act as a body that makes secret agreements and arrangements with the workers behind the workers' back. Because that's what happened in the past few years. I should also like to mention the efforts we are making to regulate the overall labour market by reintroducing the basic principles of collective bargaining, which have already led to a significant increase in their income available in just three months after the end of the memoranda. And, of course, I should also like to refer to our efforts to combat job infraction by means of a series of legislation that we have brought to Parliament in recent years and to shield workers and the insured, and to promote even more the improvement of work and the insurance system at the place is what we are planning for the beginning of 2019 in terms of increasing the minimum wage and abolishing the shameful underprivileged wage. A wage which, I would remind you, in 2012 was demolished within one night by 22% and 32% for young people and from that time on remains established until today. So these, ladies and gentlemen, are the results of our strategy. That is why today, honestly and clearly, we can tell the Greek people that the sacrifices they made are starting to catch a place. That is why today we honestly and clearly tell the Greek people that what we give back, as a reward for the sacrifices he has made so that today we can say that we have achieved and come out of the crisis, they are not benefits, they are not "Shovelas, give it all", as you say. But it is the fact that we can now reap the fruits of a coordinated plan and a difficult effort that we have been doing over the past three years. Of course you've confused us, it's true. You are telling us that we are bringing a fourth memorandum, the next you say 'Tsovola, give it all', and in the end you are voting for these 'gift it all'. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I think Mr Tsovolas should be happy these days because he enjoys universal acceptance. That's what it looks like. But let me say, since there will be not much media that, in the same way as they tried to terrorize the Greek people, they will now tell them what benefits they will have from these interventions and the fact that we have come out of the memoirs, to tell you two - three examples and to table the relevant tables to study them better. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, with the bill we are putting forward today, injustices are being restored. But here let me give two examples. A farmer with an income of 10,000 euros a year from 1-1-2019 will pay 600 euros less than the amount planned for the year that he would pay as a contribution to the main pension contribution. In other words, we will have a reduction for the farmer of the annual income of EUR 10,000 by 33% in his contributions. A free professional who makes 12 000 euros a year will have an annual reduction of EUR 800 for the main pension contribution, i.e. 33% reduction. A doctor with a monthly income of EUR 2 000 will have a reduction in the annual total contribution, i.e. a main pension and a one-off pension, EUR 1.270 a year, again 33%. A engineer who makes EUR 1,600 a month will see an annual reduction of EUR 1,400 in the total contribution for a main pension and a single pension, i.e. 33% as well. And, with the exception of the farmer, I referred to charges and average stratification incomes, so that this ideological constant report of yours will also end that we are all very much interested in breaking down the middle class. You guys broke her up in middle class. We're coming to restore her. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen. How many times, really, have you talked about the last four memorial? It will be interesting to record how many times Mr. Mitsotakis has said that the fourth memorandum is coming. I think it will be interesting for the spots of the October 2019 elections to record how many times he said the fourth memorandum is coming. But that's not all. You've invested in disaster. Where should I start and where should I finish? You said the evaluations would not come out. You said we wouldn't be able to catch surpluses. You said you'd activate the famous pension cutter. It's not activated, and now you're bringing him to the Constitutional Review. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You said, when the International Monetary Fund forced us to go to this absurdity of co-legislation of 1% positive and 1% negative measures - measures and countermeasures - that there are no countermeasures, but there are only measures. Now you are in the unpleasant position to see that the opposite happens, no measures come but countermeasures come. I wonder how much, how much more one can miss his political predictions and political positions. I do not believe that there can be any post-government history, at least, which can be followed by another political leader, apart from Mr Mitsotakis, who has fallen so many times outside his assessments and forecasts, and even within such a short period of time. But what I'm watching is that you don't, at least, have the emotiveness to say, "We made mistakes, bro." You continue to invest in destruction and denial. You have nothing positive to propose and, of course, it is not easy to forget all this. It was not many years ago, it happened in July. Three months ago, he was in this House when Commissioner Moscovisi and you 'took him out of his face', you stoned him, because he dared in the Senate Hall - I do not see Mr Hatzidakis here today - to say that the measure of the pension cut was imposed by the International Monetary Fund without the agreement of the Commission, is not necessary and we can see it again if the Greek economy catches the targets. What did he want to say that? What a party of SYRIZA you told him! What if the agreements can be cancelled, then he can tell it clearly, as Mr Hatzidakis said at the meeting. Later Mr Mitsotakis made a public statement calling for the Commissioner to be more careful in his position. Why? Because he left the possibility of no pensions being cut. You want to forget all this, but it's not easy to forget all this. But why do I remind you of them here in a word? Because I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect on why this reaction from Officer Response is particularly about pensions. No, I do not believe that the reason is that they have a evil against the pensioners and they really wanted to cut pensions, but because, through this great success of the government, which at the end of the day is a success of Greece and is a success of the Greek people, the New Democracy's account is completely destroyed and now there is no record either for a fourth memorandum, nor for an alternative proposal from the New Democracy for a tax reduction, because we have just said that there is room within the financial framework that the Greek economy is in progress. I would therefore like to end by telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, if you are going to feel better when you vote for these new measures which we are bringing, the reductions which, of course, you call them 'contributions' but you vote on them, if we can baptise them on our own initiative'measures in the fourth memorandum', measures of our own memorandum. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Except that the difference of these measures, which you will vote on one by one, with the other Memorandum measures, is that the previous Memorandums were memorandums with the lenders. This memorial that we bring is a memorial to the people because it is about their needs, about their prospects, about their support for a better tomorrow. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Our fourth Memorandum, the Memorandum with the people, will therefore be binding on us from now on to continue trying to reduce unemployment, to continue to do what we call fair growth and productive reconstruction, to support the social state, in order to alleviate even more and on the basis of our possibilities for free professionals and farmers, so as to support pensioners, to give jobs to young people and young people. And above all, this memorial to the people will remind us that we have to do all we can to ensure that the place never returns to these disastrous austerity policies and to the recipes of the International Monetary Fund. So that says our Memorandum, the Memorandum with the people. And this memorandum with the people will be ratified in autumn 2019 with the renewal of the people's mandate to go even further.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much. I said I would give the floor to Mr Katsiantoni. However, as Parliamentary representatives Mr Dendias and Mr Loverdos have been asked for the floor, they will precede and then proceed alternately with the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u104	Mr Dendias from New Democracy has the floor. Dear colleague, if you please, quietly get out or sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u105	The Prime Minister's departure always creates a fuss. And if I may assume that he left quickly, a chance is certainly to have a very well-informed programme - Prime Minister, that is respected - another possibility is that after he caused Mr Mitsotakis, he left quickly if Mr Mitsotakis could come. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has told us a lot and a lot of things, but pleasantly, but smiling, but not so pleasantly, but not so smiling. He mentioned Kavafis for the “Barvars”, named the Cassandres Cassandres. Let's start first a little bit of his wider literature. First of all, of course, the Prime Minister of the country, usually in his historical or mythological recursions, is not doing very well. And I refer to the 'Cassandra'. You know, perhaps it escapes your attention, ladies and gentlemen, that the prophecies of Cassandra have been verified. What Cassandra said happened. They haven't been disproved. As a result, as a minimum, the appeal to Cassandra as a title for CSCE is a title for confirming our predictions, not a denial of our predictions, as the Prime Minister would like. As for the verse of Kavafi for history with the barbarians, who is known, I would tell you another word of the same poet. Do you remember the well-known poem for Alexandria? Would you like to put the government in the position of Alexandria and welcome "Alexandria you are losing"? And please very much, do you want to do so with dignity, like the very poem of Kavaphis imposes? To go to another verse of Kavafi for "the candles that erase" and constantly increase your erased candles? Can you look at Kavafi a little with greater interest, closer and closer to your conditions? As far as the various things that the Prime Minister has told us are smiling about his fourth memorial, which even called a'memorandum of understanding with the Greek people', ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Greek people seem not to be involved in the consultation with you. He doesn't want much more talk with you either memorial, or memorial, or whatever. If the measurements of public opinion have anything to do with reality, even far away, its current 'PUBLIC ISSUE', if I am not deceived, gives 16.5 points of difference. This people of 16.5 units - you want 12, you want 10 as many as you want, we will not disagree with our difference - do you see any mood, any understanding of a Memorandum or a Memorandum based with you? I think all he's waiting for is what time with the good time you'll be resorting to the call and leaving. And I see that where your lionisms previously were of the type "Let's go count, let's go see, let's go do", now your lionisms have the poor content simply try to convince us that the elections will be delayed, and you and the Prime Minister of the country suggest in the most celebrating way your enormous fear of appealing to the people's crisis. Aren't you saying that you are the party of the people, the party that expresses the people's will fairly and fully and genuinely? Why are you so trembling? Why are you trying so hard to convince us that the elections will be late? That it will be far away, that it will be next October? And if it were up to you, not next year in October, but after 30 October, you still wouldn't, because you know very well what's going on. You know very well that Greek society is only waiting for a chance to send you home. And since we are talking about where we have seen the fourth memorandum, in addition to provisions, etc., do you not tell me, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. 4472/2017 the Prime Minister does not know that his government proposed it to Parliament and you voted for it? Law 4549/2018 doesn't the Prime Minister know that his government proposed him to Parliament and you voted for him? All these two together at around EUR 4.5 billion burdens to the Greek taxpayer, isn't it in Greek society? This, to understand, what is it? Are these two provisions a benefit law? And I listened very carefully, and I have to say with great pleasure, because he was my student at the university, then, if I remember well, at the CNE, but that does not matter to Mr Katrugalo. The Prime Minister praised him and said what important reform was n.4389/2016, who by the way shaved pensions. The reductions in this law are now partly and in a small place you are redefined. But, to go to the base of the matter, since he was so successful, as the Prime Minister said, in this ministry Mr. Katrugalos and having done so well and since Mr.4387/2016 was so good, why did the Prime Minister change him? Doesn't he tell us? Why does he look after so many praises to a Minister who he took from this ministry, and even without promoting it? And that's not about Mr. Katrugalo, the Prime Minister's crisis. What's he trying to tell us here? If he liked his law and if he liked his Minister, the Prime Minister has a way of rewarding his ministers: whether he would leave them or promote them, not move them to a lower post and then boast of their work. I see a little incompatibility. As far as the broadest picture of the Greek economy is concerned, as it was, after the Kassandra we have responded to, to find out where we are now. Where's the economy? Where's society? Is society ready, if I understand well from what the Prime Minister said, for a development leap? Is he in a phase of early happiness and euphoria? Is that what you understand? Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me. First, from 2015 until today, while you promised around EUR 12 billion benefits, you have imposed EUR 15 billion on Greek society. Of this you haven't even got a billion euros back. Are the remaining EUR 13, 14 or 15 billion left? Heavy is, we'll figure it out where you want, but somewhere around there it is. This is what you have cost the Greek taxpayer. In addition to this, however, where is the Greek bond, the index, the thermometer of our credibility on the international market, the credibility of the country which, as the Prime Minister said, you have restored? It's about 4,60% if I'm not deceived. Portugal, a country that passed memos, is around 1.8% to 1.9%. So how have you succeeded in getting our counterpart to have 300% higher interest rates than Portugal? What success criterion is that? You want to tell us, too, to know how to copy it in the future? But something else, by the way, since we're talking about it. The budget is here, Mr. Juliarakis told us two things yesterday. You know, Mr. Juliarakis always expresses his views by one measure. The Prime Minister of the country came to us today, told us other nice things. Let me ask you something. Where's the Minister of Finance? We haven't seen him in the Chamber in a while. Where is he? The architect of this huge economic success, where he hides and doesn't appear to be asked about anything? You can tell us what happens to this government, why do we not understand? By the way, because you tell us a lot of strange things, I mean, the Prime Minister said that we have restored a fair system here. Well done, very good. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, with thirty-five years of payment of insurance contributions, this fair system, which you here come and invoke and for which you are also calling for the praise of Greek society, gives a primary pension of EUR 280, yes or no? Does it give an additional pension of 30 euros, yes or no? Is that fair? To understand, in other words, how we define justice, how we are about to speak frankly in Greek society. The EUR 280 is the pension for which you ask for social praise? And as far as your efficiency is concerned - because the Prime Minister told us 'we came, we restored the systems and others' - Mrs Ahtsioglu herself, who is here, confessed that it was still thirty-nine thousand pensions. Is that right, Minister? Television broadcasts, which the Prime Minister also invoked, say that the pensions due are two hundred and twenty thousand. But I'll get your own placement of about forty thousand. Tell me, have you not had a Memorandum - from 'bad' memorials, not from this 'good', the new one, yours - done with the pension issue by the end of 2018? Why do you owe forty thousand more pensions? What success criterion is that? Aren't you telling us to know, understand? The Prime Minister also told us how much he respects the Greek taxpayer's last euro. In fact, he said, 'we will give 20 euros and you' - that is, we of the New Democracy - 'that's what you do not count, but we care for each and every 20 euros.' It's touching, really! Are you not telling me, ladies and gentlemen, the so sensitive to the 20 euro Prime Minister of the country, whose sensitivity to this point we fully share, for the history of the HIDE with 'Venizelos', which is around 700 million, what sensitivity has it shown? Do you know the story? May I remind you again for a minute? The GOI, which has an administration that you define and is a legal person belonging to the Greek state by 100% - the Greek government, if you do not remember, is you - agreed with the concessionaire that the concession should be extended for EUR 480 million. The contract is being sent to the European Commission, the European Commission turns it back and says that this is unacceptable. It's unacceptable! And the concessionaire accepts EUR 480 million and pays EUR 1,80,000, i.e. over 700 million of the Greek taxpayer, which the administration of the TIADE has distinguished, giving the concessionaire a gift. Silence! Nothing strange! Nothing weird! There's nothing to do with the epilepsy! Nothing annoying! Nothing that the Prime Minister of the country needs to deal with! 20 euros is something very serious. The more than EUR 700 million of the Greek taxpayer is completely unjustified. Tell me if there is even one operation on the planet, even a democratic state on the planet, that the administration of a legal person in the state would end up with a concessionaire and that the agreement would be corrected and the concessionaire would agree to pay another 200% and at least it would not be fired immediately by the Minister or the Prime Minister responsible. Is there ever that possibility? What kind of moral advantage do you come talking to us here? And I beg your pardon - and to end with this too - there are, among other things, a number of amendments that appear today. Have you seen the Health Ministry's amendments? Every amendment you bring you know what it says? ‘Procurement by way of derogation and payment by way of derogation’. This is what you continuously carry, supplies by way of derogation, payments by way of derogation. What's this mess? What's this mess? Excuse me, but you do nothing but legislate by way of derogation, so that you can pay and be able to buy. And these things at best are not at all serious, the worst case I leave them to you. However, both cases, like the case of the GOI, do not in any way constitute elements of moral advantage. In the worst case, however, they may constitute elements of case law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Mrs Ahtsoglou has asked for the floor for two, three minutes, because she wants to answer. Immediately after you have the floor, Mr. Loverdos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u107	I take the floor only to answer two of the three points Mr Denkias mentioned. A lot of what he said was inaccurate, but I would like to respond exclusively to matters relating to insurance and pensions, because I believe that this is not so false, so far from the reality of spreading within Parliament. Mr Dendias said that the government loaded the Greek economy with EUR 4.5 billion - referring to two specific laws - from now on and on for the future and justifies the phrase on a fourth memorandum. The EUR 4.5 billion referred to by Mr Denkias and the laws he listed are the laws for which the Prime Minister said a moment ago that we have managed to cancel them. In other words, we are talking solely about the law on reducing the personal difference. I wonder exactly what word from the proposal 'pensions are not cut' you do not understand. Unless you're just waiting for the provision on the abolition of the earlier provision to accept this. To dissociate news of a budget adjustment of 4.5 billion from now on and for the future, when it has already been agreed at Eurogroup level that this is being cancelled, I do not understand who it serves, apart from possible voting reasons of your own. The second sentence of Mr Tindemans, on the pension given by Mr L.4387. You referred to a worker with thirty-five years of insurance, who will receive a pension of 280 euros. This is a completely false element. You probably remove - if I understand you well from the way you are placed - the part of the national pension, you speak only of the pension reward part and present a pension amount, which has nothing to do with reality. And if you really want to compare the level of pensions, because I hear very often the argument that L.4387 makes hunger pensions, while previous laws were making high pensions, to make it clear that the average old age pension of IKA before L.4387/2016 is EUR 720, the average old age pension of IKA after L.4387 is EUR 720.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u108	Where did you get that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u109	I shall submit the evidence in my speech, Mr. Brutsi. What hunger pensions are we talking about? Unless we make an overall criticism of the level of pensions in general in Greek social reality, so I agree that these are pensions which are not high. In no case, however, do we have any precipitation of pensions after L.4387. I'll testify the evidence at the time of my speech. The third point relates to the unforeseen pensions. I did say in my recent interview - and it is true - that the overdue basic pensions are at the moment less than 38 000 and that we are heading towards their complete liquidation. We received 400 thousand unpaid pension benefits. Obviously, new people are added every month, as we have new applications for retirement. Within three and a half years we have cleared out a huge amount of time-lag applications - the Prime Minister mentioned them - and we are currently under 38 000. I don't know if that's what you appreciate as a non-success or a failure. However, in any case, a reasonable criterion would see that from 400 000 to 38 thousand there is a clear improvement in reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Minister. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it takes a great deal of political courage to speak when you are Prime Minister, a law on insurance and celebrate. It is evidence of destructiveness as it is a law that came to cover all the gaps created since the first half of 2015 and the non-implementation in the most critical time of Law.3863/2010 – of my own law and Mr.Koutromani -, a law that came to cover all the gaps that were created and the insurance that the policy Tsipras - Baroufakis fell into the air at that time, which would allegedly change the architecture of the insurance system, as Mr. Katrougalos said outgoing of Maximos and from there would save money for the insurance and would not disturb the pensioner. It wants to be cobbled when you interfere with the law you've done, and eventually there's nothing left but burdens. It really has a great deal of nerve for the one who comes here to celebrate and the Prime Minister is who proves the existence of this atrocity. And why today, ladies and gentlemen, after reconstructing Mr. Katrugalo, did he come to praise him? For the Prime Minister himself for the most serious legislation perhaps other ministries, other than the Ministry of Finance, has the main responsibility, as for what happened in the period Tsipras - Varoufakis and for this insurance law passed in 2016. Please - as our representative Mr Constantopoulos and Mr Koutsoukos have done - and as we have already called on the chairs - the Minister or the Deputy Minister to table the comparative data-based tables and the data they formed in 2015, when it would be the moment of the basic application of the insurance law that I had the honour of presenting to Parliament and Parliament to vote on. The 2016 law, which you applauded, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, as you are applauding today the changes that come to it, was a 'treat monument' - within introductory words - of the insurance system. You applauded him at the National Representation and said - and I remind colleagues in the Representation - that there is no cutback, but there is a renewal of the country's insurance system. You must inspire this, you must inspire your own phrase, from which you are now withdrawing. But it doesn't matter. The retired man understands it because he understands it in his pocket. "Turkish monument" means not by the hand of Giannoulis Aleppo, but by the hand of Alexis Tsipras! And I'm wondering about something. He says in opposition - today he said about Majority and Elisson, so he also addressed us - that we will vote in Parliament every time on these draft laws which will have this kind of rewarding character for citizens. Let me remind him and remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that when you brought the Katorugalou law here and celebrated by voting on it, our proposals, but also overall from the opposition, were contrary. The articles you are amending, we have complained of them since 2016 with arguments, not by screaming and voting for celebrities! Now, for what you get back - to a certain extent, because the basics you don't get back - applaud again and make claims in vain. Everything is registered in the opinion of Greek and Greek citizens and will be expressed in the elections that are coming. But I'm stable about the great political courage needed to come and celebrate today at the National Representation. In fact, I would say that the burdens of the Greek people, their creator, the head of the government majority, and its incredible mutations and shitheads on all the serious issues, but above all on this, are a truly unique combination. That is the phrase that I am lending and making use of today that comes from Great Britain. Let us now say a few things more specifically, because insurance can be spoken, but it is not certain that it sounds. That's why you need to know about talking and where you have reservations about asking. To avoid mocking each other, it is the drastic reduction that has been made to the new insured persons since 2016, following the adoption of the law, which remains incomplete. This is the so-called'redevelopment'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u112	It is 35% on the mains and 45% on the subsidiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u113	We have dramatic, drastic reductions of 30% -35% -40%, with escalation, added to others that have begun to be recorded in your dramatic CV from the time you voted on your memorandum. That is why we have also talked about extreme policies around the insurance and useless if it had not taken place in the period of governance Tsipras - Varoufakis. With these drastic cuts and the rest, your ministers went to international fora and said that Greece solved the problem of its insurance policy! And the insurance has reached such a point that all opposition parties are engaged in changing it, resulting from your own interventions in the meantime. And I would like to formulate - is it lacking in Mr Petropoulos who is closer to the subject and who will be interested in his answer - to the Government: Is it true - that you have increased contributions to the professions in the class of 1/5 of their incomes? I'm absolutely sure that's the way it is? Now you're limiting them to 13%. Is that low? Can you count on this, too, added to their tax obligations for each form of tax? I am a free professional now that we are talking about - not I remember what happened decades ago - and I can tell you about tax, a levy on what the free trader is taxing. But here I ask you: Is it true that for 2018, insurance contributions, contributions to the ECA were calculated on the net taxable income of additional insurance contributions that had already been paid with a 15% discount? Apparently, it's true. Is it true that this discount will not apply in 2019? And that's true. Since 2019 you have counted on all income and contributions without exemption, the slightest exemption, as taxable income. From 1-1-2019. So this is my question: Would it be useful with the example of a specific middle-professional professional to tell us what the final calculation is? Is there anything left in plus, or is this a gift of gift? I repeat, the final result, not a middle number before the final result. If you applaud you without having solved you, let go of what you say publicly, these questions, and you are a member of the majority, then there is a matter of your attitude to Parliament, and now and that of 2016. And to get away from this problematic situation that arises from the front and behind you, ladies and gentlemen, a free trader is taxed and taxed together with other obligations to a proportion which reaches 75% of his income. Great government, great ministers, great policies. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a majority in the Greek Parliament that has reached its limits and exceeded them. It separates you a thin red line from your real political ending. And it is too late for corrections to express, verbal and smuggling arguments. The country's political page is turning. And I say this in the sense of changing parliamentary data, of changing parliamentary majorities. The Greek political system in its next phase will be close to normality and will have excluded all the strangles that emerged from the time of the crisis. I have just one minute and I would ask you with a small perhaps tolerance of the Bureau to be able to come up with some political points. We're ready for the next day. On Monday we tabled and presented a proposal for a law where Mrs Gennimata gave our own plan, our own path to prosperity and development. I will say nothing more than was politically applied to the governments that we had the main responsibility, or that you have changed them because of the dramatic treaty that you have brought in and shaped the country because of Varoufakis and Tsipras. I won't say anything more than that. The measures we are proposing for the development of the economy and for the strengthening of what is needed, whether they work in tourism, agricultural production or are freelance professionals, are measures which were in place, which have been abolished and we must bring them back to the forefront of the Greek economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am referring to the reduction of farmers' taxation to 13%, I am referring to tax-free, I am referring to all that we have established for the drug, we have established for the rooms in tourism, we have introduced in the most difficult circumstances of the crisis. Especially for my last two examples, I call for our 2010 decisions. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I have a large list of such policies that we have implemented and which you have withdrawn: the protection of first homes from auctions. Here you say the law by the name of Minister of our time, the law of our own, the law of PASOK. The superstition that has to go into Greek hands and which you made a fund for a century run by people who do not have their minds attached to what is of interest to Greece, the citizens and the Greek economy. I close, ladies and gentlemen, with a more general point that does not concern this Ministry. Anyone who is listening at the moment to the Prime Minister's speech is pointed out by the report not of the Minister of Finance - I do not have in mind your internals or meddles - but by the Prime Minister - and I confine myself to it - thinks it is from the speeches, not about the act - I have spoken about the act - that the country is at another time. When the draft budget law came in the Committee on Economic Affairs, following the speech by Mr Koutsukoukos in detail, I made a more general political vision of concern. What reasonable man wouldn't have recorded them? I said and now also in plenary - we will see you in a few weeks' time with the budget - that we have a failure to borrow the Greek public. We are outside the third inappropriate memorial, but also outside the market. Because at the moment the lending for Greek bonds, on the public bond market, which is the main vehicle, the main sector of public support not only for Greece, for all the states in their needs, is forbidden for us. The interest rates are, say, tachypically - to come to an understanding - 4.5% or more, banks are in a bad mess. If we had the irresponsibility you've shown from time to time and you've continued to show, we could've made this issue number one. The sense of responsibility restrains our opposition, but for the recapitalisation of autumn 2015 we will talk sometime. You will not avoid that. This issue will be discussed. In any case, today, in 2018, banks are in a bad mess.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Loverdo, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u115	I'm closing, Mr. President. As long as we ran the crisis, we had the big oil price disadvantage. It was $110 a barrel then. In 2015-2016 it was 50 and you made no reduction, $63 today, but upward trends, which is a risk to the economy. We're talking about billions. The final result of these accounts is billions. We have an environment that is not favourable to Turkey and Italy. In these circumstances, the country requires that, so that it does not relapse in a match, that it cannot borrow from the markets, that it cannot make a Memorandum and that it no longer has to make a Memorandum. This situation should be of concern to you, and your word should be a reason for responsibility. What you said about the priests and civil servants who would replace them was proof of a lack of responsibility towards the country. That's what we're gonna do. We are a very serious party, which we very much talk about the course of the Greek economy, because it concerns people, it concerns millions of people, and we must be serious. So you do not have the right at political level to applaud when you withdraw your own policies that the opposition had denounced and we first. Because it was us who made the insurance law in 2010, which was the real solution for the country at the given times. You have no right to speak by protecting your ministers for throwing them on the sidewalk when you reconstructed them after the insurance course. You do not have the right, after all, to the Greek people who expect responsibility from the political parties, to make parades to the National Representation of these kinds of false revolts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Mandas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. Mr. Mada, because your president has spoken, you have half the time. Nevertheless, there will be a relative tolerance. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I think it is very difficult to convince that when the one and a half million pensioners do not see their pensions cut, it is very difficult to convince when hundreds of thousands of free professionals see serious reductions in their contributions from 1 January 2019, it is difficult to convince when in the new phase of this law workers will finally have the right to attend with a lawyer when they are affected by an employer's illegal behaviour and it is difficult to convince when, with these provisions of the law, you will have the support of the Labour Inspectorate with two new sections, but also the possibility of job inspectors being able to operate against violence against them and in a safety context, it is difficult to convince when you have a bill for the sixty-nine institutions that provide care for children, of typical development children, elderly and sufferers, finally, that you have three hundred organic jobs. And that is why those parliamentary representatives who preceded me spoke about other things. Because at the end - and that will be quite clear - everyone, except perhaps the JRC which I think has said that it will vote against, will vote against these positive provisions that we can now do. And that is why I will be waiting patiently for Mr Mitsotakis to say something in this Chamber, at this critical, important moment, that we can act on our commitments and implement them. I am also going to call on Mr Teddy and other colleagues from the Civic Opposition, to see together the video of the attitude of the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis, when Mr Moskovis was speaking in the Senate Hall. So, to remember a few things and to make real and substantial confrontation. I will continue with something more specific, because there are indeed some objections that I would like to help clarify these confusions, because we have been told a lot in this debate. Do, he says, a trick. What's the trick? Compare 2019 with what would apply in 2019 to these measures that you take and therefore say ‘what would apply in 2019’, ‘What we do’, ‘what will apply in 2019’. You forget the other years. In order to respond to this and to be very specific, and because some colleagues have requested specific figures, I will gladly give them. The Minister said so in committee, but it seems that some people do not notice when we say specific things. Firstly, the final reduction in the rate, whatever you say, will be 33.3%. Secondly: Is that always so compared to what the free professionals pay in 2018 and is it united? No, and it could not have been that way and why the basis for calculation is changed, as it has already been said - and that everyone knows - but also why no one wants to do tricks and poaching. I shall set out specific examples. To lawyers and engineers, what happened in 2018? Annual gross income. Monthly contribution for main pensions of EUR 179, monthly contribution of EUR 94, monthly total contributions of EUR 273. What will apply in 2019? Monthly contribution for a main pension of EUR 148, a monthly contribution of EUR 64,50 for a single subsidiary, a total of EUR 213 monthly contribution. The 2018- 2019 reduction rate will be 22.16%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Other example: Annual gross income of EUR 25.032. Not to say all numbers, total monthly contributions of EUR 391 for 2018. What will apply to 2019? Monthly contributions of EUR 271, a reduction of 30,82%. Another example: Annual gross income of EUR 40.032. For 2018, total contributions of EUR 626, for 2019, total contributions of EUR 388, i.e. minus 38,10 %. So when we say the whole picture, we say the whole picture. This is the reality and I think that anyone who sits carefully and sees these examples, not only in the undeniable matter of a 33.3% reduction in the rate, but also what this will mean from this year onwards in 2019, may well understand that this is a significant reduction in the contributions of insured persons. We are told: 'But you put the subsidiary and the one in the lower.' He says Mr Brutsis - I do not know who makes the bills for him - that at the end they will receive a single and 30 euro supplementary pension. I'm trying to figure out which method he's done this. I'll report the numbers a little bit, so I don't want to say a lot. Regardless of income, all lawyers and engineers will make a minimum contribution for an ancillary EUR 41 and a minimum contribution for a single EUR 23,5. Also, to tell the whole picture, they will pay thirty-six monthly instalments retrospectively and 1-1-2017 contributions that the calls for contributions did not go. So what are the results if you sit down and calculate it with the minimum contributions and with the possibility of increasing their contributions, if and if you want to, and if you have the opportunity to do so with 40 years of insurance? Auxiliary 187 EUR, single EUR 22,100. With 30 years of insurance, additional 118 euros, one-off EUR 14,000. I think that this is something that Mr Brutsi said to us and I would ask him to make better calculations. And I come to something last, which I think is the most important thing. The fact that the New Democracy and other political forces will vote positively is clear. What are they saying? They say "you come to our policy", "we told you", "After you ruined them, then you make the corrections we told you." So let's see what they're trying to hide with all this fuss. If I wanted something to stay out of my speech, it's what I'm going to say now: What are they trying to hide? What Mr. Mitsotakis said at the ICU. That's what they're trying to hide. Because what Mr Mitsotakis said at the IGC is creepy to read them and it will be dramatic to live them. Because Mr Mitsotakis at the IGC, ladies and gentlemen, a little - he spoke very much about the dismantling of the public social security system. You know how? By actually putting the subsidiary to private security.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Mada, if you'd like, please complete, because you've already been well over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u119	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. It is actually a transition that very valid analysts say it will cost at least EUR 30 billion, so current pensioners receiving supplementary pension will be in the air. Because he must at the same time tell us where he will find these 30 billion euros to make this transition. However, the main thing is that he wants to play the pensions of the young pensioners who promises them this famous individual best-beer, who will very well bring them over-performances like those promised in Chile 70% and were destroyed, because they did not get even 20%, 28% did not get caught. Therefore, all the fuss - to understand - is that the New Democracy, in a global criticism of the facts and the insurance system in particular, is trying - and I thank you very much, Mr President, for the time you have given me - to hide its creepy plan for the dissolution of public social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th High School of Larissa. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u122	After Mr. Pafile, please, because it may take time. It's not just a testimonial testimonial. You also want to have an amendment. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u123	I would like to begin the placement of the KKE with the headline of "RIZOSOPASTI" today: ""Arena" for the profits of the workplaces with a dead man every five days". Every five days in 2016, - because for 2017 and 2018 you have not given evidence, at your own risk, according to what they say - a worker sacrifices, dies, spills his blood for the profits of employers and monopolies. And these aren't Rizzospast's. It's the APRC report. Secondly, we had six thousand five hundred fifteen work accidents in 2016. It's the largest number since 2009. Thirdly, we have had a vertical increase in labour market flexibility between 2009 and 2016. I'm not going to say any particulars. You can figure it out. Finally, 2016 was at the lowest levels - since 2001 - the control of state services in the workplace. Also, the work of minors was launched. Your system, ladies and gentlemen, since the day before yesterday was the day of the child, has tens of millions of children working all over the planet and in our country - because the work of the minors under 15 has been legitimised by laws of the New Democracy, which you have maintained - and hundreds of thousands who are literally dying on the job. These are the accomplishments. Do you have anything to say about all this? Why, you know, when you read in detail - for 2016 I say - how many fines and how many sues were made - I'll just say it - you'll freak out. Inside a jungle that exists, measured on the fingers of one hand. That's what's coming up for. Blood, blood, blood, blood. We had six and a half thousand accidents. What are you talking about? Do you understand? What for? To raise the competitiveness and profitability of monopolistic groups. Let's get to the bill, too. Because they were told by the Prime Minister several things, when did the generalised attack on the insurance system began, which was a partial conquest of the hard and bloody struggles of the working class leading the communist movement and where was it limited? The few were conquered and the needs of the system itself were to replace the labour force. It started in Europe as champion of Britain in the 1980s and in our country - to put a semantic marker - from 1992 on the New Democracy Government continued the PASOK, New Democracy continued again, and the crisis and the memorials, which were hurricane for the insurance system, for the common social character of the insurance system, came again. What was the strategy that was taken by all, but by all governments? And I will now say about the current government. It was a reduction in state funding, a reduction in pensions, in order to save money to give business groups and other sectors, and a gradual advance, an opening-up of the road to private insurance, so that it could invest capital and be profitable. Do we agree that this was the strategy? I don't suppose there's a reasonable person who doesn't agree. The hurricane of the memorials came, because they were delayed before, due to the resistance of the labour movement in our country, and they passed them in the drop of an eye. Yes or no? Isn't that how it happened? That's how it happened. This memorandum wanted, among other things: to break down what the workers had won, to cheapen the labour force, to pave the way everywhere for investments to restore the profits of the monopolies. What did previous governments that are being cut today, by PASOK and New Democracy? They have, over time, moved into this strategy. So has the SYRIZA - ANEL Government changed this strategy, or has it moved right to it? What are the achievements of the government that Mr. Tsipras told us here? Indeed, it is taking place for this, it is very proud that it has managed to bring a sound, sustainable and fair insurance system. Swinging! I'll just say it. Let's see: Twenty a reduction in pensions from New Democracy, right? That's right. Reducing funding, right? That's right. So what did the new government of social sensitivity do? Incorporate all previous laws of the last decade. Did he stop anyone? Oh, no. And it brought - I don't want to tell them who they were - in 2010, 2012, then brought in 2015, with great overturns in insurance rights, and finally the great law called Katrugalos, but it's not from the government - it's not personal, it's a political whole - with the full agreement of all the government officials and MPs of SYRIZA. So he brought him, and what did he do? It brought new reductions, that is, it got from the pensioners about 8 billion euros from 2016 to 2019. That's not what the JRC says, the State General Accounting Office says. He also increased the age limits to sixty - seven years. Yes or no? And that's where the builder was killed. Can you sixty-seven years old and sixty-five and go up to the building? Can you work in the third basement on ships with oxygen welding and burn alive? Can you work twelve and fourteen hours just like most people are working to ensure a cut? And yet, sixty-seven, that is, death. That requires capital, they don't care. Did you break the pension into a national and payroll with what guarantee? Only the so-called national, i.e. EUR 360, and leave the tricks - the rest are rewardable. I'll say it later. Did you reduce the state subsidy from 17.5% in 2012 to 9.2% today, yes or no? Who does this serve? And what's your commitment? What the European Union requires, those who suck at workers' blood: to go to 4.2% to alleviate the state from subsidising what? Those workers who, with their own blood, build all of this and pay a lifetime. So no law, new measures. Did you currently maintain the minimum hunger wages of EUR 586 from EUR 751? And you even brought a law, which is now the Brutsi Act, Ahchioglou, and you celebrate. You are applying what you have reported to be inhuman against workers, etc., you have now brought it and said: What are we doing? We're increasing the minimum wage. On what criteria? Mr Tsakalotos said so at the time when the New Democracy had brought it: competitiveness, i.e. capital requirements, and growth. Did you bring it or not? You're playing for collective agreements. There are ten branches that cover 10%, 90% is "jungle". And besides, you are abolishing the basic negotiation between the GFCM - regardless of our point of view - and employers. Who determines the minimum wage? The government, not the free negotiations. Thirdly, did you implement the second memorandum and reduce the minimum pensions for those who did not complete the 67th year of age, yes or no? Yeah, you can't deny it. You have abolished the lowest pension of EUR 486 with the 'Chikalis', as it was called, and the ESS, which was received by the poorest pensioners, namely EUR 2.9 billion. Make accounts. Third Memorandum: Did it increase contributions to the health sector by 2% to the mains and 6% to subsidiary, yes or no? Yeah. Who paid for it? The workers, the insured, the pensioners. Subsidies were reduced by ECU 1.02 billion. in your own decisions, yes or no? They're down. The State General Accountancy says that, not us. Did you introduce an additional levy for subsidiary services only at four years, amounting to 1,251 billion, yes or no? Yeah. Make accounts with the computer so they can come out. Did you fish the widow's pensions by EUR 392 million, with an incredible outcry? Macaubrey! That's where you arrived? Have you arrived or not? You're here. Did you fish the dividends of civil servants by EUR 832 million and all this in three and a half years and go for the fourth, yes or no? Did you fish the one by 30%, yes or no? Yeah. Make accounts. From the change in the method of calculating pensions and at the reduced rates of replacement, again according to the General Accounting Office of the State, 689 million were deducted from pensioners, yes or no? Add to the computer. The minimum pension was replaced, as the Prime Minister said, by the national pension, which is EUR 360 from EUR 486, plus EUR 230, yes or no? Tell me where he is, and we're wrong. So we come to this for this to come to the conclusion. So what did SYRIZA - ANEL Government achieve? Firstly, it maintained the entire framework of the previous governments, i.e. pension reductions and all the rest - not to repeat them - and also reduced pensions in many ways. Secondly, it reduced State aid by saving funds. And now this increase is plastic and, if you want, we can talk about it another time. It also opened the way for private insurance, because when it says "EUR 360 and from there on payroll" the system goes elsewhere, and the other one in front and in the propaganda that is going to happen - what New Democracy says and supposedly you reject it - will go to private insurance, with all the risks that exist. In total, then, what did this government do? He did it in full! And not just did it, it continued where the New Democracy stopped to complete - we do not know what else has, it has another, we know and it will be in the future - the requirements of large capital and of monopolistic groups. That's them. Read all the documents, all the decisions of magnanimity, BSE, SETE, etc., which were formulated in the White Paper, which we said was a curse, black, for workers. The New Democracy and the PASOK at the time, KINAL today, said "go" and the coalition then said "not white nor black, colourless". Eventually, there's the results. So where do you differ in the implementation of the capital strategy and the European Union? Tell us a clue. I gave you all this. Did you do it or not to an antenna? And go further. So what Mr Tsipras says about 'SYRIZA's memorial to the people' will be translated. It's a memorial of the social character of insurance. It's a memorial tomb literally put in social character by SYRIZA. And now what's he doing? He's got a glue and a coffee for comfort. Once again, however, what he shares, these "fly" he gives, again by the workers, takes them. How much did you get from the industrials? How much did you get from the shipowners? What have you done for so many years, that you want to say that you are a left party and you are supporting the weak, to abolish scandalous tax exemptions, unspeakable profits, unbelievable profits, unbelievably, in the crisis and before the crisis now? You didn't do anything. It is not even a measure that hits the globe and the monopolies. Show it, keep it like a fig sheet, anyway. Not even one! In full, in the European Union-monopoly-capital line, workers are being smashed. And now share the gums and coffee. What Mr Mandash said - now he's gone - airplane tricks are cheap syndicate I don't know what level. What do you say? You say: By the laws that we voted on - you do not say so - in 2019 you would pay so much, while we gracious ones say you will not pay that much, but you will pay what you are paying today. That's the point. What are you doing here? Tell us about it. Do not bring the law to 2019. You're making fun of the world, literally. And we're starting now. The reductions you are now making - I do not want to go into detail - balance the increases of all previous years, yes or no? They don't balance them. At best, they stay at the same increases. So, what memorial age are you talking about? Are you working on us a little gamble? Memorandum means abolishing the increases I made before. I'm reintroducing pensions, even gradually, to the level they were before. I repeat the basic at EUR 751. What memorial period? Second, how many are this about? Two hundred and fifty thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u124	If you want, Mr. Paphie, you can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u125	Be fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u126	I'm already fair, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u127	Once and for all, the Prime Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u128	I've already been in sixteen minutes to tell you if you want to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u129	All right, let go now. Twelve and six, eighteen, I'll go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u130	All right, if you want to slowly finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u131	Yeah, we'll slowly shut it down. We're at the end. So this is a big trick, I say it again, and if they say so. And what are you doing else, which is the hardest? Because we, even those change, would vote for them. You're cutting the payroll. I'm reducing 33%, as you say, but you're going to be retiring when. So, a pension that will be calculated where? It will be estimated at 40% of the contributions. So he pays a hundred, for example, the working person all his life and you're going to give him a pension based on forty. The other sixty where did they go? That's it. And because Mrs. Fotio's dissatisfied, I'm going to make a little regression. From 1952 to 1982, the sweat and blood of the workers went off to ETVA and was being given interestless loans to all of them, Bodosaki, Chatsus etc., which they supposedly built Greece with 10% participation. I'm saying, then what happened? To conclude all the funds, as with the stock exchange - you agreed, we said no - and the haircut. So the sweat of generations of whole generations, of our fathers and of our fathers who spit blood to build this Greece, where did it go? You stole him. It's estimated at 70 billion. Not you, the other guys stole him. You continue on the road to complete this situation. I don't want to go on. I'll finish in eighteen minutes, like I said. So we're talking about a tough class policy. Bring us other evidence, from whom you get and who you give. What the rest of us could not and did not have been able to do is unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. If you think you'll temporarily fool the world by sharing mirrors - because the world has reached a dead end and indeed counts the 20th and ten - you're making a big mistake. It's worth it, and he has to take it. And he'll take it over and over and over and over again this system! And he won't choose the way between the Dog and Harybden. He has to set a line like this. Because wealth is produced by the workers, the working class and the populace, and the others are parasites that steal him. But all the governments so far are with the parasites and not the producers of wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr. Tsiaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u134	Immediately after.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u135	When immediately after?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u136	I'm sorry, Mr. Ministers. No Member has spoken. Parliamentarians have spoken and the Members of Parliament are waiting. That's a big list of speakers, about fifty. If you're going to talk for a minute, I'll give you the floor. But I know you're gonna need a little more. Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u137	For the amendments, let them know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u138	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u139	I don't disagree if everyone agrees. Let's start with Mr. Eliopoulos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u140	They are two amendments, 1806/146 and 1807/147 in a number of articles. In Amendment No 1806 there are three articles. The first article is on a second chance programme for self-employed workers, implemented by the OAS. In cooperation with the FBI, we have found the issue for some self-employed people who did not have tax information. So once they're in, testifying business plan to the OAED, they can just get it, to start the process. The other two articles will refer to Mrs Fotou and Mr Petropoulos. In Amendment No 1807/147 - which has seven articles - there are five articles on social security. The last article is a special regulation on the integrated information system for working doctors. Because until now the whole procedure for the doctors of work has been done by manuscripts, and now it is incorporated into the digital system of the information system and therefore some things had to be arranged in relation to the ministerial decision on the information system. The last article also concerns a request from municipalities to be able to join public works and public-law legal entities and private-law legal persons, which are supervised by municipalities. It is a demand that has come from all the municipalities participating in the Social Work Programme and will help them very much in implementation and make the process quicker. Mr. Petropoulos will refer to social security articles and Mrs. Fotou in an article on school meals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u141	Mrs Fotou has the floor, and then Mr Petropoulos immediately thereafter. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u142	In one amendment there is an article, 'Standards for the extension of the School Lunch' programme. As you know, school lunches today are only in primary schools. It's a hundred and fifty-three thousand a day. We're expanding it to both middle school and high school. I think the reason is obvious. We have the financial area to do and it is excellent. I would like to refer to a single legislative improvement. It is about mobilising the positions declared under the ASP, Article 35, in the social protection centres of all of Greece. It's for the most famous three hundred forty-one seats. It is the molecule required by the ALP procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment by general number 1806 and a special 146 concern a regulation on the Equity Fund. It is an old pending before the year 2000, which was unregulated and pending. It concerns the non-insurance of the Equity Fund and the dividend for dividends placed in any position. It was an old loose end and we solve it so that there is no legal uncertainty. The next amendment is a general number 1807 and a special number 147. It relates to the contribution of the paid lawyers, engineers and doctors to 4% as a percentage of the basic salary of the unskilled worker, as applicable. In particular, for the lawyers who have been paid, that charge applies half to the agent and to the lawyer. The next amendment relates to the 3.5% reduction for subsidiary insurance, which results in 3% from 3.5% in 2022 again on the minimum basic salary of the unskilled worker. The next amendment is an outstanding debt to engineers, which is maintained as a dead account to the ECA and must be attributed to engineers. By decision of the Minister for Transport, Infrastructure and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, detailed rules are laid down for the reimbursement of these amounts to engineers. The next one is an addition to Article 8 which refers to the areas affected by natural disasters or natural disasters. We saw this, it happened in Matty, and it's happening right now in Zakynthos. Because there was a difficulty in discerning the company, which is being suspended by insurance contributions and regulated, it can by decision of the Minister of Labour, because the economic situation is generally disrupted in areas affected by such disasters, and the payment of contributions for all businesses is suspended regardless of whether they have been damaged. And there is a final interpretative provision of a previous law, which has never been implemented. There was a doubt as to whether they should be retained by the workers in the banks above in relation to all the other workers with contributions to unemployment. It is clear and correct that this provision does not concern workers in banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u145	Thank you to the ministers and thank Mr. Chiara for his patience. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for seven minutes. We'll go on with the chatter list. At least five will speak until the next parliamentary representative comes to Step, if he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the presence of the Prime Minister has caused us many questions, not the way he sees or perceives the political and social reality, but above all the objections he raised to the policy of Civilian Opposition. There is a feeling that we are not acquainted with, as if we do not know what each one of us has done especially over the last three or four years. So since you think we don't know each other, I suggest we re-establish ourselves. In May 2016, we told you that the law of Katrugalo was a rough law? What was the result eventually? There are countless corrective interventions. Today is a new law. Did we not tell you that this law will increase tax evasion and will tax evasion be increased? Result? Reduction of declared revenues by 1 billion in 2016 and 2 billion in 2017, respectively. Weren't we telling you that all the new children will be found and work abroad? The Greek state will have paid for their education and they will offer their services elsewhere. Result? The Brain Drain effect is literally on the ghetto. Now, how the Prime Minister finds that unemployment is falling must obviously also look for concrete answers. Because, ladies and gentlemen, magic wand does not exist in policies. They ripe policies and produce results, and I refer to previous policies in the New Democracy, or on the other hand, when a few hundred thousand young people are missing, obviously, the rate of unemployment becomes less! Did we tell you that this is how you put additional factors, greater obstacles to entrepreneurship? As a result, IOBE's report says that fewer and fewer attempts are being made. And it is not something that nobody can see wherever they turn their gaze to the Greek market and to the Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day the Katorugalou law was not aimed at the sustainability of the insurance system, but mainly at covering the "hole" of the ECA. Today, obviously, a small step is taking place, no one is questioning it, but we have been calling for a reduction in insurance contributions for a long time. But, you know, I've been wondering how much you've finally given the citizens and the pensioners and how much you still have left to take them, since you haven't cleaned up for two years and you haven't accounted for the part of the aid and the one. If you want to see what the reality is, it is not the expectation and expectation of the terrible twenty euros that promised to increase pensions shortly before the Prime Minister, but the fact that at the moment we are still talking about there are hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens waiting to see what is going to happen with their contributions and supplementary pensions, as well as with the one-off one. Because we said we'd introduce ourselves again. Let us reconstitute ourselves on the budget that was tabled just last night. Are you expecting an increase in investment? Is that the way the Greek economy will be saved next year? Really, how's it going to be? In what way? With what motives? With what state it has to deal with the specific institutional structural problems that exist and we record all the previous years and how this will happen when this EUR 550 million that is still being cut off by the Public Investment Programme is just so that the Prime Minister can satisfy the declarations of the Thessaloniki International Fair. Have you seen, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly does the Public Investment Programme involve for this year? Have you seen it really? Zero investments in the firefighting unit. Zero in public security. Very low in education and health. Do you think that you are supporting the social state, when we have even had so many events in the last two years that, unfortunately, have caused not only too many problems, but also the loss of lives of many of our innocent fellow citizens? And since I heard yesterday some of the SYRIZA colleagues provoking us and wondering what memorial measure the New Democracy has managed to take, on the occasion of, of course, the fact that the pension cut, which you have voted for yourself, you come to'remove' it, to suspend it and, on the other hand, to celebrate. I'll tell you that the New Democracy has managed to limit VAT to half the focus. It is the New Democracy that has never accepted the amount of VAT for the islands where you agree to continue to be in the next year, of course ignoring the amendment that the New Democracy has tabled several times for this practical regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, insisting on a policy of benefits without seeing that the only answer is real growth through investment, through - if you like - entrepreneurship by creating new jobs, it is a utopian position that returns us to the past and is a position which, in a very large way, will, in a second and third year, regain the course of the Greek economy. Look, Greece, our country, needs another policy. It is the policy that the President of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis proposed to Greek society for a long time. It is a policy that sees entrepreneurship, sees investment, creates new jobs and can thus tackle the problem that has been recycled in recent years in our Greek economy and in our insurance system. Finally, because I saw that you were really happy with the speech of the Prime Minister, we must at some point take responsibility for the teaching message that we are sending to society. I am not talking about the white man who can easily become black for what I am voting on today and I think it is a good thing. By the way, the cut in pensions, when voted on, was a good measure that was supposed to help the economy - yes, I know with a heavy heart and difficulty, with the well-known tears that fall on the pen and do not let the ink be captured - now, of course, there is a relief measure and certainly shows the bravery and the leaf! But you know, with this convenience of changing its position, and of course the other side shows that either way or we will show it good, the unreliableness of the citizens towards the political system is obviously increasing. And that will be a very big problem. There may be enthusiasm here, based on the numerous parliamentary groups and the majority recorded in the previous elections, but next time it will not be so. Very simply you know that anyone who sows winds, in the end reaps storms and this sooner or later will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chiara. The reason for this is that Mrs Switching from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was also mistaken. I thought there was a fourth and fifth memorials and, of course, we had never come out of a memorandum nor had there ever been a clear exit. In this mistake I was left with and I would remain until now that this Step a little while ago Mr Tsipras spoke and he was so friendly to convince us that there was no fourth Memorandum. I would not then have been convinced, but in the meantime I read the new menu of the Prime Minister's plane and found that we have indeed come out of the memos. Such a menu has never been made on the most VIP flights! I heard Mr. Tsipras sharing twenty-nine here and saying how important this 20-year-old is for the retired person, and how much it takes and I was trying to make an account for this menu, where a glimpse of the retired person, surely this 20-year-old would rub it in the face of anyone who claimed that. I am giving the Minutes - because publication is the soul of justice - the report from the 'CORDER' today, which is based on the decision of the VIP operator. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So eat, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as long as you can. And scrabbles with ham and fillet and salmon and hamburgers and seafood and cheese and milfei and propetroleum and tiramis. People hear these things and they run their shit while you tell him we're out of the memoirs. However...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u149	Ahh!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u150	Who's sighing? Someone...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u151	It's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u152	Someone's thinking about the menu. However, throughout the time we talk about memorials, two questions are dominated and formulated as long as your triumphs last. Firstly, do these triumphs go hand in hand with the real state of the economy? Secondly, given that the real situation in the economy is disastrous, how is it possible for lenders to praise the government, which has brought these major shocks to the economy? First question. The country - all my fellow Members and our parliamentary representative have said - is out of the market. Our ten-year bond 4,60. From the 21st of August when we were supposed to be out of the memos with a clean exit, we had five cracks on the Stock Exchange. On 20 November, we were on the fifth day of Armageddon on the Stock Exchange. Since August of the supposedly clean exit we had five krahs and banks have lost 4.2 billion since their capitalisation. Full vaporisation in the banks, and that's what you call normality and exit from the memorandum. The Bank of Greece announced a deficit in the current account of 1.3 billion. Have you heard what that means? I don't think so. Do you understand anything from what a trade deficit means, which is beastly, with imported inflation that a month goes up, rising inflation? The price of bread increased in Greece of the crisis. You celebrate for the beastly primary surplus. But don't we have less than 1.3 billion public investment programmes? Do you know what public investment means for a country's economy? When BLOOMBERG, referring to all these negative elements, did he, of course, say that Greece can be faced with another economic crisis because of the banks, did you hear something? And after all that, we are told - and we have heard Mr Tsipras from this step to say it - that unemployment has fallen. But now the OAED announced an increase of 35.80% of the unemployed and not due to redundancies in the tourism sector, because it compares October 2018 to October 2017. Also, the special BSE report has now been made public, which says that one out of four is on a salary of less than EUR 500. So, I know. If one of EUR 1,000 leaves and another three of EUR 300 comes, unemployment is certainly falling. And if they leave and everyone abroad, we won't have any. Unemployment will be zero. There'll be civil servants, retired people and babies. After all these serious and black, we come to the second question: does not all the lenders know that? Don't they see them? Don't they see the economy goes to the rocks? How are the same lenders, who did not close the fifth assessment to the Samara government, even though they knew and confessed that the elements of the economy were better, today to behave like this? Every time we say so, the government is thrown away and said that "we are implementing the programme while you have not implemented it." "We," they say, "we hit where you failed." So they tell us that you were not as good as we are, to remember the terminology of those heroic years. But that's not true either. Because yesterday the Commission stated in its report that the government has not completed and fulfilled any of its ten six commitments. So, while the government has done nothing, the lenders come and say "how nice you make them and what nice you go and how well you go and take the pension and take it and take the other." What is going on here, when you do nothing and when you do the opposite of what you agree? You're sinking the economy. The elements of the economy are different from what you want to present. You haven't even touched the evidence of the Samara government. Because even tourism left him at 16.9 billion in 2014, and you are now abducting him to 14.5 billion with an increase in tourists. So you haven't even reached the Samara government numbers and you want us to applaud you? Why? Why are you trying to achieve what had already been achieved since May 2014? The evaluations were at ‘B’. Did you come heroically in 2015 and drop them in the trash, 'CC', and now we need to applaud you why did you go back to 'B' after four years? Because I remind you that you've been ruling for four years. We were two years and something. Did the Samaras government give you the deposits of EUR 160 billion, you dropped them to EUR 120 billion, now you put them up to EUR 130 billion, and we need to applaud you, because you are still EUR 30 billion below us? So the economy sucks black. You do not respond to your commitments to creditors, but creditors close ratings and allow you to remove measures that they have imposed on you and you have voted on them. They say, on the other hand, that they are concerned with legal decisions on pensions, but at the same time they tell you that non-reduction in pensions does not threaten the viability of insurance. In other words, you want to tell us that while in Samara, the economy was uprooted, the commitments were being fulfilled, we were going out of the memorials by the beginning of 2015 and the lenders found ridiculous pretexts not to close the rating, now they find it all nice and well. So what's going on? Because something's going on. It can't be done like this. The reduction in pensions - I say - and as a privileged measure was not necessary. Why did he come in? And after he got so easy, how does he get so easy? How do the measures come in, according to how you behave in the internal sphere? Why did they make us so much trouble? There was a sentence we could say it was a mess. Tomsen was lifting the world up. He called and said, "Why did you say that? Why did you do the other?" And now there's nothing wrong. Well, look, it's obvious, in my personal view, that the measures are coming in to get out. Otherwise, the measures don't come in like that. We have ruled, too, and we know how they act. Everything shows that these are used, because there is a transaction under the table. The lenders took over the superstition and Macedonia and obviously left us in our destiny with many praises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Buddhism. Mrs Lebanese has the floor. To prepare for the follow-up colleagues, Mr Igoumenides, Mrs Skoufa and Mr Yoyakas. Then perhaps Mr Katsikis, who has asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all have to express our deep sympathy and understand the human tragedy experienced by an important group of our fellow Members, the MPs of the Civilian Opposition. Their hopes for the restoration of the old system of power, the foundations on which they built up the restoration of their own order, collapse. A characteristic example is the insurance system. The Government has succeeded in unifying the insurance funds, changing structures, logic and functioning and making them sustainable and surplus. Today the contributions are paid on time by a majority of the insured persons. Pensions are neither cut nor threatened. Improving revenue allows for a significant reduction in the contributions for freelance professionals, farmers, young scientists. In addition, there is provision for a reduction in contributions for lawyers, doctors, engineers and for supplementary pensions and one-off. The available income, the net profits from the exercise of a profession are increasing. At the same time, the competitiveness of the Greek economy is being strengthened, consumption is steadily increasing and new jobs are being created. Government initiatives are constantly creating positive circles in the economy, increasing market liquidity and improving the economic position of citizens not with credit, but on the basis of real potential. The insurance system is proven to be sustainable, stable and capable of supporting social needs, not through cuts, but by increasing benefits to society. The majority of Greek society begins to recognise that with sound and rational management, redistribution of resources and a set of rules, social stability is guaranteed, without risks to the economy. The differences that begin to be revealed are clear. The primary sector already sees a great deal of improvement. It was only yesterday that the abolition of the trade fee for the majority of farmers was voted on. Today and in spite of the reactions and negative attitudes of counter-population, the contributions for freelance professionals and farmers are being reduced. The next period will reduce the tax burden by increasing the competitiveness of enterprises. At the same time, the minimum wage is increased, the subordinate is abolished, pensions are not cut, recruitment is foreseen in critical sectors for society. Young teachers and young scientists are to be placed in the service of society. The weakest social groups are still supported by the state and new initiatives are adopted to tackle poverty, such as rent subsidies. The Government applies redistribution of resources, ensuring social stability as a basis for economic growth. The increase in social resources does not result from borrowing, but from the real powers of the country. The money is not shared with the people concerned of the old system of power, but it is distributed to those who really need it, either directly with financial aid or indirectly with public and free services. The traditional economic elite is reluctant at the time when the vast majority of society is relieved. The traditional elite is reluctant, because it sees and feels that progressive choices and policies offer solutions to real social problems, unlike their own policies to increase problems and to treat few. The old system is reluctant, because the government every day adds possibilities to the Greek people when they promise opportunities. Our life isn't an opportunity. The modern state cannot be an opportunity. The new social contract, which we and the people are serving, only distributes possibilities. With today's social bill, which paid the marble of mismanagement and bankruptcy, they see significant reductions. At the same time, there is provision, firstly, for solutions to the problems of the EIF, which still keeps handwritten records, causing significant delays in the control of the payment of contributions for the retirement of insured persons. Secondly, the granting of pension to his spouses or children of natural disasters as a minimum obligation of the state to those who lost wrongly. Thirdly, workers have the right to show themselves as political plaintiffs in criminal proceedings against employers on the grounds of non-payment of accruals or redundancies due. Fourthly, strengthening the Labour Inspectors' Corps to further improve efficiency in the effort to eliminate infringement in the labour market. Fifthly, strengthening critical structures and welfare institutions with the establishment of organic sites that will meet fixed and permanent needs in the twelve social welfare centres of the regions, the National Centre for Social Solidarity, the Blind Education and Rehabilitation Centre, the National Blind Foundation. Sixth, extension of workers' contracts to supervised entities responsible for the implementation of the prostitutional services until the final placement of members of staff. And seven, OAED compensation for the maintenance of the free movement of unemployed. The demolition of hopes, the forces of restoration will continue uninterrupted until autumn 2019, when the Greek people will be invited to decide the way we will follow for the next four years. Faced with the wishes, prayers and credits of the old system, we will respond with actions, possibilities and safeguards. I close with an excerpt from the "Violets for a Time" project by Tasos Levadi. "Happy those who did not know themselves. Male men who have silenced their innocence. But blessed were those who gave it all and then looking at a star like the only return." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mrs Lebanese. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three teachers from the 4th High School of Larissa (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today comes at a time when we are actually taking our first steps outside memoranda. Paradoxical though those who led the country to their policy on the rocks, those who led the country to the first memorandum, those who, at the calendar end of the first memorandum, brought the second one, those who had thus established the economy and its results, which led us to the third, come today to say: "Sure the achievement. We came out of the third to enter the fourth or "Sign up the feat. We're supposedly out, but we're not out. It was an exit log. After the 20th of August, it could not be done otherwise." It is essential to place New Democracy colleagues in the committee debate, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have not, ladies and gentlemen, come out of the memoranda because the time has arrived. We came out because we had a plan, we consistently served this plan, we fought, in and out of the country, for the implementation of this project with the majority of society. So we managed to get the country out of the memorials with society upright. "Where is society today?" Mr. Dendias wondered a moment ago. From the less than half a billion euros left by the state funds with the'success story' of the Samara - Venizelos - that was what was delivered to us in January 1915, that is, the state funds with a minus of 500 million - we have society standing, today we have an economic 'cushion', which covers the country's obligations for the next two - three years. I mean, we don't burn to the market. In other words, we have an element that can absorb vibrations and pressures towards the Greek economy and the Greek society. The experience of these three years, this effort, and for building our country now, after the memorials, has been free, but, at the same time, from all the burdens of the past, because it needs a plan, because they need conflicts both inside and outside the country. The example of the non-cutting, the abolition of the pension cut - which, a year now, the publicity projectors have left after we have finished and made sure that the pensions are not cut - shows what conflicts are awaiting us for the creation of the new Greece. Finally, we need to walk with the living, fighting social forces. Do we have a plan? Of course we have a plan. The pillars of the project that we are proposing today in the Greek society are the recovery of work. Of course, we have a lot to do in this, but with our basic roadmap that every worker should be under the umbrella and the protection of collective agreements. Every other is "black" work, it is "black" slavery, it is illegal. That's what we're moving. Obviously, we have a lot to do in this direction of recovery of work, but it is no coincidence that on 20 August, when we finished with the memorandums, the first bill on 21 August 2018 was related to collective agreements. It has a deep and emblematic and symbolic character about how we see the issue of the recovery of work. The second pillar is the deepening of democracy. There is a set of measures. There's a lot to do here. In this context, in my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, and the revision of the Constitution, what the Prime Minister has announced since 2016 in the most official way here, in the courtyard of Parliament and for which the opposition today states "surprisely and in the first place is bringing it here today". The third element is the strengthening of the social state. With this roadmap, we are calling on you to move forward, and we are sure that we are moving along with the living, restless social forces. This, gentlemen of the New Democracy, our political plan, this proposal from the Left to the Greek society, is that you are trying to cancel your occupation on issues of secondary and triumphant importance. You use political trees to erase the political forest. However, no matter how disrespectful you are, no matter how much you scoff, no matter how much you see reality, no matter how much you use the menu of the Prime Minister plane, and no matter how much you use Mrs Vultesis and you other Members of the New Democracy, you cannot ignore the truth. And the truth is that today's draft law - not only this, but today's draft law - which we will shortly be voting, like other measures, is an actual expression of the end of the budget adjustment programmes. The reduction in insurance contributions is a substantial relief for two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals. You cannot ignore, hide, erase, deny that, today, after your questioning end of the memorials, yes, today we have the freedom to vote for what we are going to vote on, yes, today we have the freedom to vote against - I have heard from some wings 'nothing has been abolished by the memorials' - measures imposed by our lenders. How free are we? As far as the successes, the course and the evolution of the Greek economy allow us. Of course, it is one thing that the fighting of Greek workers will not become offshore companies of the rulers, it will not go to the funds of the NOVARTIS account, it will not escape outside the country. The left will guarantee - and it will, unfortunately, guarantee for you of the New Democracy for many more years - that our country's wealth produced will return to the affected society. Have we taken steps? A great deal, I will see you in the budget debate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President, for a few more seconds to complete my position. What is the New Democracy's attitude to all this? He tries to undermine every effort he has to do with government initiatives, from the most recent, Church-State relations, "do not vote for an atheist" to the most distant, second assessment, "old man, Gerun, don't do the favours!" Amongst attempts to create a crisis of confidence between the Greek Government and the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the effort to prevent the Commission from accepting the pension cut, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the official positions of the New Democracy do not express all Members. I know it firsthand. I am also aware, at least from my own constituency, that the official positions of the New Democracy do not express the whole of the people who define themselves in the field of right-wing party. I believe that the dispersion of the New Democracy - in order to make a little serious - in extreme neoliberal positions, a shock that nothing good does for the place, subjection to populism and destruction, in fact express the inadequacy, the inability of the conservative party not to formulate a comprehensive proposal to exit the crisis - has - but to formulate a comprehensive proposal to get out of the crisis that is attractive to the majority of society. We walk with respect and trust to the thinking citizens. We walk with confidence in the fighting forces of society. We think that in all this controversy our people will give their answer after the memorials. On the left, we build the new Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. I would like to ask you, as long as you can, because there are some forty speakers left, and that means that we will definitely go after 21.00, without having spoken to ministers, without having spoken at all, and with the possibility of a party leader speaking, although we do not have such information, it is good to keep the speaking time. Mr Helios has the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I have inadvertently forgotten to say that there are certain legislative improvements of a purely technical nature. I'm tabling them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u159	Mrs. Scouffa has the floor for seven minutes. Here are Mr. Yoyakas and Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Katsikis, and we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, what we have left here, I feel the need, more as a citizen of this place, to catch the thread of breaking down and breaking down the money of the insurance funds, that is to say, money belonging to the insured and pensioners from the outset. As much as it hurts us, I would like to remind you of two tragic moments in the history of the insurance funds. The first concerns the infamous PSI, which may have brought the country's debt cut, but it has also brought about a cut, i.e. a disappearance, the reserves of the insurance funds, the money, that is to say, that they had invested, saved, paid for pensions. Secondly, the fact of the tragic political and economic movement of investment in the reserves of the insurance funds on the stock exchange, so that when the bubble exploded, several billion euros were lost again. Why am I reminiscing these facts? Because in the mind of each citizen a question arises. As of early 2015, public and social security policies, whether they were politically irreversible, which characterised the governments of an ashtray or targeted policies aimed at dismantling social security, precipitation of social security, and thus the delivery of the insurance system to private-economy farmers. This is a policy which, as has been mentioned, has reminded us again and reminded us of the new Republic's leader speaking of the need for private insurance, as if he did not know that again millions or billions of our fellow citizens who have unfortunately resorted to private insurance funds, on one night they saw their savings disappear again. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly wonder why it is not possible to become aware, if possible - or we should stress it, at least the government officials, with even more emphasis - that when this government received the steering wheel of the country in 2015, there were four hundred thousand applications for our fellow citizens waiting for their pension. When would they take it if these policies continued and if SYRIZA didn't come? Never! Why wouldn't they ever take her? Because the deficit in the insurance funds was EUR 1.1 billion! I really don't want to think about the science fiction scenario for the New Democracy and PASOK to continue! Honestly, I have a very big question about what would happen and when all those who in the years of their working life had given money to have a pension at their age? We should also stress in all ways and in all tonnes that the current coexistence is the first coexistence that, after eight years of memorandum, comes and does with the Katorugalo BIOSIMO - in capital letters - for the first time after many decades, the social security system. What does "subsistent" mean? It means that I count how much I will give, who I will give, and that I will not have a monkey pensions. I also bring them back to the discussion table, because I get caught by a lot of my fellow citizens and they say, "You never tell me about "male" pensions, which if the memorials didn't come, would continue to be given to customers "milikey" pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u161	What are you talking about, my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u162	I'm sorry, Mrs. Marcus, if you're being bothered, but they're being really happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u163	Why don't you abolish the Katorugalou law?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u164	A sustainable insurance system is therefore being created. A fair system is being created which means it's not as many years as if you had or had no profit, income, etc., you had to put your hand in the pocket. The free professionals and businessmen, in whose name you're supposed to speak and have to pay the two-month period to the OAU, where would they find them, dear colleague? Where would they find them? So the Katorugalou law comes and makes a fair system that tells you "so much you get, so much you will pay". Under this system, one million and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens, that is 88% of the insured, are already paying less insurance contributions. And here comes the bill to reduce insurance contributions of 33% and 40% to free professionals, self-employed and farmers, to pay even less, while giving them the free choice, if they want and if they can and in order to have a higher payroll, to pay more. So congratulations to the government, I personally have to confess. Congratulations on the fact that for the first time we can be sure of our pensions. Congratulations on the fact that we won the negotiation of the non-reduction of pensions. Congratulations on the fact that controls on the labour market are intensified. Congratulations on the fact that this law for the first time gives workers the right to stand in proceedings against their employers when they do not pay them the wages or allowances. Why, listen - listen, gentlemen, so far, the workers affected by non-paid employment have not had the right to be present in the courts and to speak of cases that have been afflicted by them. If that's possible! Congratulations, Ms. Fotio, who is putting within the bill the provision for the setting up of three hundred organic positions in social welfare centres, the National Centre for Social Solidarity, the National Deaf Foundation, the Evrytanian Chronic Sickness Therapy, positions that are essential, as all the invited social actors who Mr. Brutsis accused them of as government's children, as party children of the government. Because these and so many other recruitments are needed in the public welfare system. For us and for this government welfare and social solidarity are not the pie to which they put their hands, as the private ones are now. The welfare and social solidarity are a constitutional, social, economic and political obligation of the state towards the LEAD, against the minors, against the elderly. That's all and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Mr. Yoyakas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u166	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, honestly listening to the previous speaker, I was about to believe in what world war today brought the country, the pensioners and all the social groups, into what cosmics the insurance system brought, how many new cuts today's governance has done and what we are all actually living in this society. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said on various occasions that the integration of the funds has been roughly planned and is progressing slowly. This has caused problems for the insured, some of which the relevant ministry is trying to solve through fragmentary arrangements. The delays and sluggishness, however, have also caused problems for workers and the funds, problems that have reached the unprecedented. This is what the mobilizations of recent days have shown in various ECA agencies. There are serious shortages in staff and computerization. I also told Mr Petropoulos at a timely question last August. Madam Minister, the draft presidential decree on the new agency of the ECA must be completed so that it can, at least, join mobility and begin to cover at least some basic gaps. And I come, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to the bill. Despite attempting to justify unjustifiedly the most critical regulations of the bill are nothing more than a confession of failure of the Katorugalo Law. We are in fact welcoming you and thank you for the fact that in this way you are even entitled to the criticism we have made in the past of the excellent social security contributions paid by the self-employed, which, together with the tax burden, led to the closure of tens of thousands of individual enterprises and a reduction in the incomes declared by the selfemployed. Nevertheless, you have the courage to advertise correcting your error as a success. But what you are doing is not enough or as important as you want the citizens to believe. And we have a duty to tell them. First of all, the reduction is much lower than it seems, because the basis for calculating insurance contributions for freelance professionals and self-employed people has been increased. It will include from 2019 all insurance contributions paid last year, without the 15% discount in force for 2018. In other words, the main pension insurance contributions are actually reduced by 22% rather than by 33.5%, which is the rate of reduction from 20% to 13%. The overall relief is even smaller because the contribution of the non-employed in favour of the EEAS is increased, since by changing the method of calculating the insurance contributions, 6.9% will also be calculated without the 15% discount. The reduction in these contributions is not for all self-employed people, but only for those with an income of over 7 000 euros. That's not all, though. The reduction in contributions has a future cost for the insured, because you change the way in which pension slots are calculated and thus reduce the amount of the pension. In other words, the main pension contributions are reduced by 33.5% only by name, because in practice we have explained that the reduction is much less. They are reduced to 33.5% and pension earnings. In other words, you are opening the gap between old and new pensioners, at the expense of the second after the Katorugalos law, those who will receive 35% lower main pension and 45% less supplementary pension than in 2014. Promise, therefore, that today, without prejudice to the hunger pensions, which you have in your policy in the coming generations. If that's not populism, I wonder what it is. But there is one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. Even these reductions that the government celebrates are not a substantial relief from the burdens borne by the free traders, the self-employed, the farmers. Unlike your own reeds, the New Democracy, in its proposal, wants to achieve a tangible improvement in the available income of these categories. That is why, together with the reduction in insurance contributions, we are proposing to abolish the trade charge for freelance professionals and individual businesses, but also to reduce to 9% the import tax rate for natural persons for incomes of up to EUR 10,000. More importantly, we are proposing a reduction in main pension contributions, for all workers, for the free professions and for the self-employed, for both public and private employees. We do not intend to create two speeds of insurance by violating any concept of insurance justice. Unfortunately for you, gentlemen of the government, you cannot copy it properly. You are once again trying to deceive, but society has understood it. For this reason and in the next election exam, prepare to be judged re-examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Katsikis, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is really bad to speak a political word, particularly at the level of Utopia. I have heard things say that do not convince the most ill-faithed. I have heard that the central policy of the government is being affected with regard to insurance. I wonder: Can anyone objectively compare what the current government has received? He received all the financial channels of the insurance funds irrigated, while the fund set up after consultation in the ECA today is surplus. So I wonder, in this simple, reasonable argument, which I express as Parliament's minimum, what could anyone answer? Perhaps someone, continuing with the bad, sterile criticism, the opposition tactics, would say that if today's anti-population leaders were still in the government today, they would enjoy things and create another comparative advantage for them. Honestly, though, who would be convinced if they said they would have done better? I think that the Greek people see and judge and hear. And all the self-employed, who once did not have the opportunity to pay the insurance contributions, depending on the insurance class each had, created two pounds. Firstly, five euros could not be entered into the insurance funds for their reinstatement, consolidation and guarantee in the future for pension contributions, and secondly, those who could not pay these unjustly unfair contributions can never get a pension, which is now being done. Insurance contributions have been adjusted to the appropriate level, and the insured can and can pay them, the insurance funds can create a reserve that today is surplus, but the insured tomorrow too, may enjoy a sum which they will be entitled to at pension level. The draft law of the Ministry of Labour is therefore another step towards a fairer social distribution of tax burdens. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government consistently proceeds with the implementation of its programme commitments and proves in practice to the Greek people that, once the cycle of the strict committee has been closed, the re-establishment of social rights which have been discounted in the past, is a matter of top priority. The decline in the income of Greek citizens - as has happened for many years - during the period of the memoranda, is a sad finding, which I believe no one can counter. The Greek households were succumbing to sacrifices, which did not account for them, and yet showed patience and insuperable endurance. Today we are legislating to reduce the insurance contributions for freelance professionals and farmers and to establish a new, more favourable environment for two hundred and fifty thousand people insured. To those who think this step is not enough, we respond that it is just the first step. It is the first step of a series of key political commitments for 2019, as announced by the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. To prove the truth, I will speak to you about two more steps, to which the Greek Government is consistently moving. Of course, all of this creates disappointment to all those who have been micro-political and sterile for three and a half years and have long wanted the failure of central government, as exercised by the current pattern. It is a form of cooperation built on foundations of mutual respect with tolerance to red lines between the two partners, but above all with a commitment to the objective, that which has led us to overcome our ideological differences and differences, with the aim of getting the country out of the memoranda and combating corruption. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Stay in your positions for a while further, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, as we, while we are involved in government work, still have enough steps to go. The return of the retrospectives, as it has recently been introduced, with the one-off payment of sums credited to in uniforms, doctors, judges, universities, artistic staff of the state orchestra and pensioners of all the above categories, is yet another proof of the political will that we have shown, with the aim of treating the social injustice that breaks down into a large portion of the Greek citizens as a result - let us not forget this, gentlemen, and gentlemen of the Anti-Population - of our original signatures that have made Greece a commitment to blackmail and cruel austerity for at least eight years. Of course, I could not go into another area in which you have claimed another strategic defeat, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population. Pensions: no cut will be applied, no cut will be imposed. The final text of the new budget does not contain a measure of the reduction in pensions. We are, of course, talking about cancellation - and I stress this and note it - and not a suspension of the pension cut measure as from 1 January 2019. We have been tabling the first budget since 2008 with a net budget extension of 0.5% of Gross National Product, that is, EUR 910 million. And as the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs just pointed out yesterday, this is the first crucial step towards changing the budget policy mix in favour of growth and social cohesion. The same is yesterday's amendment, which excludes farmers from paying a trade fee. I repeat this as well as other colleagues, but with what I shall say next, I would also like to emphasise this governmental practice, this government policy, which is day-to-day, and something even more important: the election promises and commitments are now being implemented. In particular, farmers, members of agricultural cooperatives, as well as agricultural and school cooperatives, are excluded from the payment of this tax, regardless of whether or not they have been five years since their first start of work. In its draft law, the Ministry of Labour has reduced by 33% the contribution for the main pension scheme for freelance professionals and farmers since 1 January 2019. Also, for scientists, doctors, lawyers and engineers, the contributions for subsidiary and one-off are reduced retroactively as of 1 January 2017. 88% more of the free professionals, self-employed and farmers pay less than the previous system and they certainly pay fairer contributions, since they are linked to their actual income. We Independent Greeks, confronting SYRIZA, made a fresh start. We have succeeded and continued to succeed where you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, failed. We are therefore successful, because we have taken the country out of the memorials and we are institutionalising ourselves in favour of Greek taxpayers and not against them, as you have repeatedly done in the past, by imposing multiple cuts in family income - it is true - in the majority of the social system as a whole. We are returning substantial sums to the Greek taxpayers, which you deprive them of, contrary to the previous governments to which you have participated, who have not just returned to Greek citizens the sums and labors of life, but have, on the contrary, removed the acquired, by punishing, authoritarian attitude and disposition and by zero resistance and submissiveness to external cheques. That is what you have done in previous years, and we have the courage and courage to tell you and to account for it. That is why the people's verdict was a catapult to you during the last two elections. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say this again and let me become unpleasant, let me become tiresome, let me become boring to those of you who do not like to hear the truth: the Independent Greeks continue to implement our initial commitment to Greek citizens by this draft law. We remain consistent in our mission. We are curing the bad texts of the past, putting the national economy back on constant track, and paving the way for a better tomorrow, achieving where everyone else has failed. The Greek people will recognize this once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Catherine Marcou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has become so familiar with the political lie, it feels so comfortable, it can easily even oppose itself. What he votes for has nothing to do with it. After a while, he can vote against it as if nothing had happened, without any responsibility, without any guilt. Sometimes it is said that SYRIZA has ideological obsessions and prejudices, which are responsible for his genuine and political behaviour. Now we know that SYRIZA - and hence the government - is an invertebrate thing that mutates ovine. He can therefore vote and vote out anything, provided that anything that passes through his own license, from his own hand. This serves its reproduction through the customerry and plundering of the state: recruitment, new secretaries, new state structures. In fact it is the core of the post-multiple process, the so-called "old" that he denounces. The title of the bill is ‘Reduction of insurance contributions’. You should have added a "... and corresponding reduction in the pensions of insured persons". But that's how the story of heroic exiting the memorials doesn't come out. Besides, until these professionals retire and discover that you have told them half the truth, who lives and who dies! For example, insured with thirty-five years and an income of EUR 15,000 since 2002, the current data would receive a pension of about EUR 422 per month. With the new contributions and Article 28 of the bill, it will take 281 euros a month, a smaller pension by 1/3. And when that happens, you will of course come and denounce the government then as neoliberal, class and analgesic. Of course, to get you to retire, you must have picked up the badges for years. What young man today will be able to retire when 62% of jobs are part-time, when he sticks half an hour, when one out of three pays 317 euros a month, according to the data from the FBI? Because with the fatality of 2015, the consequences of which we have not yet seen, your experiments, your tactical attitude to power all these years until today, you have led the real economy to total collapse: the collapse of investments and productivity, the collapse of wage levels, the collapse of the quality of education and care, the fleeing of businesses, young professionals, and even pensioners abroad. What's to say first? Despite your triumphs, reality is merciless. The markets remain closed for the country, the spreads are disappointing, the Greek banks are downgrading, risk losing even the profits of the European Central Bank and the Greek bonds EUR 4.8 billion, because you cannot go ahead with the agreed reforms. Really, why are they agreed? Since we're supposed to have left the memorial three months ago! This story breaks down, too. You are proud of the surpluses that no one has asked you for, which have come out of the bleeding of the productive economy, so that you can then return some money as charity. And to think that you asked for 3.5% to become 2%. And then you became king's elders and you made 2% surplus of 4.5%. Instead of pursuing sustainable, sustainable growth, stability, a friendly business and insurance environment to bring about investment, to create productive, stable jobs, you always have the look at the communication profit of the moment. Even the Public Investment Programme frozen it, sacrificed to the altar of overcrowding. Thus, you have ensembled the country and the Greeks where you want, where they are vulnerable, to stagnation and misery. One wonders, therefore, when we hear the various speeches and suggestions made by the Members of the House who celebrate the reduction of insurance contributions. You think citizens don't understand? You think they have a fever? Did you think that with this kind of smokescreen, the so-called gifts, the lasting ones, he went - come and said - the world will be confused and forget that every euro you return to him with one hand, you take it with the other, that today you are reducing the insurance contributions you have increased, even making fun of the free professionals and scientists for wearing ties? Perhaps you would have more respect to them if they were wearing possets, such as the inspiration of the law that is actually falling apart today, by abolishing the single contribution, its main pillar. Another grand piece of shit: Two years ago you presented the Katrugalo law to us as the great insurance reform, which will supposedly restore the injustices of the past. I believe we all remember Mr Petroupoulou, who told us that he was walking on the road and that the citizens were spontaneously squeezing his hand because - he says - they paid less insurance contributions. Maybe thanks were cut off, so he said to cut further the contributions. I'm kidding, of course! The truth is that the “cartrongal” of the FCCA destroyed the labour market. It guided widows and low pensioners to despair by the unexplained cuts in widow's pensions and the abolition of the CSCE. He made the state a partner in the revenues, but not in the expenses of every professional and every farmer. It's a system that makes hard work for the hard workers of Greeks, so that the party customers and SYRIZA executives can do well. And today you're trying to cover the tragic mistakes you're making. But the damage you've caused in the country is incalculable. And it is damage not only to the economy, but damage to the institutions and, unfortunately, damage to national issues. And that's why you can't stand bourgeois society with rights and freedoms. A popular, authoritarian democracy would like with the greatness of your friend Trump and the leaders of the Balkans. But the moment comes when things change. Mr. Mitsotakis has already submitted this plan - fewer taxes and contributions - for the relaunch of the economy, for the simplification of procedures for the promotion of investment, with creative Greeks and Greeks in front of the productive sector ahead and the public sector as a supporter, jobs, opportunities, confidence, truth and stability, normality and security for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Karasarlidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that after a long period of hard budgetary policy this cycle has been closed and today our Government can pass a bill giving a significant reduction in the insurance contributions of non-wages, farmers, free traders, self-employed persons, and a number of other regulations such as the one under Article 23 of the right, namely, the presentation of a policy of paid pay and compensation for redundancy. In other words, workers for the first time acquire the right to stand as political plaintiffs in criminal proceedings at the expense of their employers. We have the opportunity to vote on this bill today, because the Government has dared us to reform the insurance system with the integration of the funds, with the creation of the ECA and other structures. He dared, in other words, to change the insurance philosophy. Yes, we have created a system fully adapted to the period of the economic crisis, but it gives room for reforms to meet the specific needs of society. Colleagues of the other parties - there are no one here, only you -
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u173	I'm sorry you don't have any in common.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u174	... let me tell you how, when you are exercising your criticism, you are either voluntarily forgetting, or artificially ignoring that the legislative changes that were adopted in 2016 were passed in the context of memorial legislation, so this meant that revenue through contributions should also be increased by insurance and other costs to be limited to what is necessary. Today, after we have succeeded and removed the country from the memoranda, we support the social rule of law, the main component of which is the insurance system. We intervene with redistributive and remedial mechanisms for the benefit of these citizens and the greatest sacrifices, in order to correct any injustices that have been caused by the implementation of economic policy measures that had to be taken in previous years. We are doing so with the social principle that suits the rule of law, intervention and balance of inequalities, and we feel it to be our duty to the citizens and, above all, in the middle class that has the most creative and developmental part of society, which has been affected in recent years. Yes, we are recommending a sound system of insurance and not in the context of election purposes, as you say to us, but with areas and reforms, with areas that have been done in the past and with reforms that are being carried out today and will be done in the future, with hard work for almost four years of our administration and, of course, with the sacrifices and participation of the Greek people. We have received a deficit in the insurance funds and will hand over the EVA at the end of the four-year period with a surplus. We have created a sustainable social security system. 88% of farmers and free professionals pay less contributions than they pay. The outstanding basic pensions are about thirty-five thousand, and you've handed us over to the four hundred thousand unfinished. The figures therefore confirm that the destruction of the Opposition and especially of the New Democracy once again will fall into the void. And you know, this bill is the third favourable measure of the twenty for which the Prime Minister committed himself at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki and said he would vote for Parliament. And despite your irreversible cries, colleagues of the Opposition, who are rather serving an early pre-election policy, you will be forced to vote on it all. One by one, you'll vote on them. Today, however, the debate in this Chamber should take place on other conditions, because insurance is a national issue. Your political intervention, ladies and gentlemen, should be in the direction of consensus and, as far as possible, better reform. Because everyone's objective should be an acceptable, enforceable and stable insurance system, which is inextricably linked to the needs of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Katsiantonis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the Prime Minister's suggestion from this step, I am now sure that his hypocritical abilities are unbelievable. If I didn't know better, I'd actually have tears in my eyes. From the one tears of joy about the image he told us a little - very much - that it prevails in the economy of the country, in fact it is all good, it is all blooming. On the other hand, he showed us how sensitive he is for retired people, that would be tears of sadness. It seemed that the Prime Minister had a great mood today to surprise us. And by saying this, believe me, I'm not trying to praise the Prime Minister, but your surprises are nothing but positive and pleasant, since all you achieve is to self-determinate the Prime Minister himself with you, as with this bill, which actually clings to the rug-slide of Katrugalos. You have presented to us that this is a law - a point of reference for insurance reform. You told us, even by hitting your hand on these benches, that this law would bring the tops down to insurance justice and would equate the insured against the old, supposedly, inequality. What you did not tell us, however, was about the sloppiness of your toil and that you were counting backwards for his abolition, as two and a half years after his vote, you are striving to collect it. Unfortunately, however, its disastrous effects on the economy and the insured, which since 2016 have been kneeling with the extermination contributions you have imposed on them, do not easily collect. So, we have now come to have a dead end to free professionals, former tide workers continuing as employees, but in practice they have seen their wages cut off because of setbacks and above all, we have the conclusions recorded in recent years, which, unfortunately, have shown a sharp fall in the number of self-employed and freelance professionals. Obviously, the latter understands what it means in terms of a circular economy, since the reduction in their number has naturally brought about a reduction in their declared incomes. You know now that you have destroyed the free professionals, the doctors, the lawyers, the engineers, the economists and above all the farmers. And of course, you have destroyed the economy, because it is not enough to impose a tragic insurance system, you have continued in the same tragic way the tactics of overtaxation, which has dissolved and even dissolved what remains of the country's productive fabric. Is it really the development and development of the insurance system the two high-speed categories of pensioners? Really, how rewarding are the unfavourable contributions paid by the insured? If I put this question to myself, the answer would be in capital letters "THELL". And the whole thing is getting even worse, since at the same time, for example, in order to freeze the pension cut - with which of course we do not disagree, but under other conditions - what are you doing? You're cutting out for the unemployed. Cut tests for the needy in public health. You are rightly facing the inability to administer medicines and tests to cancer patients in time. We must not forget what happened last August, where many of our fellow citizens were literally pleading to approve the Etoposide and the Oncotype DX test. Of course, you are creating groups of unemployed, since the insurance system does not help to boost employment, which is about one million unemployed in the last one and a half years I would say. These and many other things continue to do completely unhealthy and lack of strategic planning. Gentlemen of the government finally deprive our country of valuable liquidity and ultimately all you achieve is to pooren Greek citizens. You know, you don't tell us anything about fictitious surpluses - if people understood what the fictitious surpluses meant! - on which you rely and continue to rely to get us out of the Memorandum. Of course you were the ones who plunged us into this for the last three and a half years. Because really, if you knew the size of the disaster with the memorials that you imposed on us, you'd be looking for corners to cry before the cry you'd cast after the results of the polls. Fortunately, however, the Europeans - even those who have been mocking you for so many years - have finally taken this one away, since they are singing to you in their last report on the fact that you have forgotten after the end of the memorandum that you have agreed, and not one of them has been completed. And at this point I would like to ask you a question. Really, why do you act so splittingly and self-destructively? And well, for the latter, if you want to self-destruct as political entities, I don't have a personal reason. We are talking, however, and above all we are talking about the Greek people, because you are leading them to destruction with your own actions. Very soon you will see a card face the crew of your political and social time. And it will certainly be a ruthless ax to the citizens' vote. It is never too late for wisdom and consensus, as long as you follow the path of reason and dialogue, as we have called on you repeatedly from this here the Step. And be sure, gentlemen of the government, that the world, the Greek people no longer have delusion, does not believe in easy solutions and certainly does not believe in lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for you and I would ask you to agree. We still have thirty-five speakers. We still have the whole of the ministers. They haven't spoken. There may also be a request for secondary periods from rapporteurs or parliamentary representatives. You realize we're going too late. There has been an attempt to see if the list can be limited. Colleagues aspire to speak and do well. There can be no cut-off. I would like to ask you, please, to agree to do the seven minutes five.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, this cannot be the case all the time. It is always at the expense of the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u179	Don't tell me anything I agree with anyway. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u180	Parliamentary representatives are always talking more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u181	You're right and don't argue, because you're right. Those who are half the list then usually suffer this consistency. But I'm telling you, we'll do it if you agree. If you don't consent, let's keep it in the seven-minute. I expect us to go after ten - if it's ten and it's not much longer - if we go like this. If you consent, the Heads of Parliament, the Parliamentary Representatives, will inform me at the Chair. For now, I'll hold the seven-minute. But one thing you want, please, to go to five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st PESAL Volos. The House welcomes them [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Rizzos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be as soon as possible. Besides, I have the feeling that the issues of today's bill, the significant reduction in insurance contributions for freelance professionals, farmers, self-employed, engineers, lawyers, doctors, young scientists, for whom a system of discounts is already in force, has been made known to the Greek society precisely because they concern it. And I have the feeling that the opposition itself, despite the opposition krone and the well-known lines we have heard here today, is aware of the three years known for earthquakes, plagues, oppressions, knows that today's bill contains a series of positive measures, so it cannot go against it. Moreover, I would remind you that as of 1 January 2017, about one million two hundred and fifty thousand non-wagers, 88% of the free professionals, in other words, pay lower contributions and even lower than those paid before the operation of the ECA, the single social security institution. Today we are going to alleviate the contributions for an additional two hundred and fifty thousand unemployees. I think it is to highlight the importance of the creation of the EMCDDA for the insurance reality of our country. I'll stand on two things. The bill, in addition to what is very important, has an extra value, for it is precisely because it makes it completely inappropriate for the argument that there was nothing important that we came out of the memoranda on 21 August. So the bill that we are discussing today shows precisely all the positive effects that are included in this if it matters that we have come out of the austerity programmes. Ask, if you will, and society, which has a positive impact on all that we are going to vote on today, if that value is there. Secondly, it is a bill that in practice helps the world of work significantly. Soon, as we all know, we will have the minimum wage increase, the abolition of the minimum wage, what is the most embarrassing for our country. It was an opportunity they found to bring him to the country on the occasion of the memorials and they even shake our fingers. At the same time, it has been possible to sign up to the extensions of sectoral collective agreements, which have a positive impact not only on wages but also on guaranteeing better working conditions. So it has such value, self-worth now, this exit from the memorials. Let me give you an example: the APRC is expanding its offices in northern Evros, something that had never been done so far. Faced with all these developments in the workplace, we can see what the New Democracy party tells us. On rhetoric level? "Government's ideality at work, which deals with collective agreements," Mr.Mitsotakis told us. ‘Out of eight and fixed work’. All these diamonds have been said in this Chamber. And let us also see at the level of purely practical practice Mr Samaras' success and unemployment hit 27.9%, while today unemployment is at 19%. Nevertheless, we hear voices saying 'we are destroyed and we are not going well at all'. Until what did we have before? We had the release of guards, cleaners, the abolition of Municipal Police, the availability of technical training and of course the availability to fellow doctors from IKA by Mr Georgiadis. It was so great that the New Democracy's interest in the world of work that its former president, Mr. Meimarakis, forced even in 2016 to say that fired cleaners are not reform. I mean, noting all the above, that there is a conscious effort from specific Parliament's wings to play the ball out of the court all the time, as the footballers say. Why? In order not to have any real debate on the world of work, on the recruitment to be carried out in health, education and the social state, on the development that needs to come to our country, but on terms of justice and transparency. We become eyewitnesses of the contradiction every day on the one hand to denounce opposition MPs that there is not enough staff in hospitals, in schools. We say yes, that's what it is. The memorials broke these structures. Here we have this phenomenon: Questions about a Evros Hospital, a doctor, are being tabled. So what should we do? If they kept the ratio one to five, we'd have to wait for another four doctors to come in. That's the logic. So now that the country is breathing, we are also launching recruitments that must be done both in health and in education and in the welfare state. This is neither a pretext nor a ruffles of SYRIZA. So we have to stand out and see what we want. Do we want health structures finally to be served? Do we finally want to have teachers and teachers in our schools? So we're still waiting for that answer. To close, I believe that despite the difficulties we have here, the public debate will be held and it will be positive for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, before I give you the floor, I will announce our guests who enter the gallery. Immediately after you get the floor. Dear friends, we still have no news of the information I requested. We're going slow, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, what time do you anticipate if you allow?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u185	Around 22:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u186	If we go normal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u187	If we go normally, where we can go next. I am absolutely sure that before 22.00 p.m. we will not finish. There are thirty-five speakers, the Ministers, the secondary ones. I made an appeal to be five minutes. Anyway, we'll see. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the report by the Chamber of Deputies VENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, fifty-eight members of the European Committee on Economic and Social Affairs (ESC). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with a comment on a piece of the bill that can be recorded in the small ones. And I say it is recorded in the young because, as we have often demonstrated by the Ministry of Labour, a number of legislative arrangements that we had been through in the previous period, either to combat undeclared and imputed work, whether for the employable or for the whole web of workers' rights, have often been recorded as small in the face of the major economic issues. We have always said that these small provisions relate to the lives of thousands of workers. I remember that when I had first assumed the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate, I was told by a Health and Safety Inspector from the Volos region a case where in one check he was bathed with oil and threatened to be burned alive at the time of the check, if he had proceeded to the confirmation of the infringement and of the fines. I think that what is being done with this bill today, which we legally shield the inspectors, is to upgrade their position and ensure that in any case they will have legal support and they will not be alone against anyone, apart from a self-evident step that had to take a state that respects these workers, it is also a great thank you to all the audit workers who daily in very difficult circumstances do everything they can to protect workers' rights. I think that this government has shown just how crucial the protection and upgrading of control mechanisms are, because at the end of the day it is the protection of workers. First political observation. It has emerged in the debate that the New Democracy is constantly relying on catastrophe. But here we have to ask a political question. Because the New Democracy is constantly resorting to destruction, a disaster that is never confirmed for me. Reviews that wouldn't close, a cutter that would come in '16, didn't come in '16, would come in '17, not in '17, a program that wouldn't close in '18, a credit line, all out. The New Democracy resorts to destruction for a very simple reason. Because whenever she is forced to speak programme, her programme competes sharply with the International Monetary Fund programme. Many times it goes beyond it and precisely because it understands that it cannot set up a hegemonic narrative, it cannot set a framework and consensus within the Greek society when in public administration it defends 5 to 1 when at work it is against collective agreements, when it is against increasing the minimum wage, its last refuge is destruction. A catastrophe that constantly seems to be inconsistent with reality. Unfortunately, the second point is that we are constantly discussing without respecting the facts at all. There's a record from the New Democracy that you brought overcrowds, you overcrowded, and so you've destroyed the economy. At the same time, if one compares the numbers of surpluses signed by previous governments, one sees that in 2015 they had signed a primary surplus of 3%. The current government after the unnecessarily negotiation of the semester has achieved a deficit of 0.25%. In 2016 primary surplus 4.2% signed. The current government has achieved 0.5%. In 2017, a primary surplus of 4.5%. The current government achieved 1.75%. In 2018, a primary surplus of 4.5%, the current government achieved 3.5%. Only in this period, from this unjust negotiation, they say, this government won 20 billion. That's a given one. We cannot overcome this with the convenience of all the rapporteurs of the New Democracy talking about surpluses. Second part, second evaluation and pensions. They come here and say that the pensions were an unnecessary measure. Can we just remember the second evaluation? Remember that when the Greek Government said that 'I will not close the second assessment unless I win the collective labour agreements' - which we won today seems to have won - the Civic Opposition said so much and so many other measures, it said 'close and do not discuss any more', it said that the evaluation is not closed because we have ideas. We remember very well Mr Hatzidakis telling Moscovisi to tell him whether the government will fail, because the New Democracy programme has been built on the basis of the commitments made by the country. And commitments meant cutting pensions. And it is clear from the positions that have been made today by the rapporteurs of the New Democracy that the New Democracy actually defends this measure and I think that perhaps the clearest thing is when people come out - such as Mrs Xafa - advisers of Mr Mitsotakis and not just defend the measure, but show that she also has a structural direction that should be supported. I now come to a third element, which shows that we still do not respect reality and data. We have heard of a negative record of 'ERGAN'. We've seen it before in the committees, we'll see it again here. Firstly, the 'ERGAN', which shows for the tenth month, is a positive record of sixty-eight thousand positions. Secondly, the annual issue of "ERGANI" will soon come out, and when comparisons are made in the annual issue of '18', with the annual issue of '14, it will appear that over four years in the private sector there will be more than four hundred thousand net new jobs. It is also very crucial that the proportion of full and part-time work remains at 70-30 and not at 68 hearing from the rapporteurs of the New Democracy who take a picture of the moment that is not all of this. What, though, is the greatest smuggling in this area in the Anti-Civilization Civics? To his credit the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsis, and in the previous draft legislation on labour, he said exactly the following: 'With the structural changes we have made to the labour market, we have reduced unemployment'. This phrase is a phrase by a consistent man who respects his policy and respects what he has done. I would simply add that, with structural changes - what we call 'neo-liberal counter-reform' - which you have done on the labour market has created the wages for which you are currently accusing the current government. And what is today's government's answer to the wages that you created with this neoliberal counter-reformism? I will give you a simple example of the contract for the hotel staff, the extension of which has been signed by the Minister of Labour and has become compulsory. There, the minimum wage is 780 euros. What does that mean? A young man twenty-three years old, working for 511 euros, is currently taking 780 euros. So our response to the neoliberal counter-reformation we have experienced is the reintroduction of collective agreements, the abolition of the underpaid wage, the increase in the minimum wage and the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate. All this, at the end of the day, means increases in wages for all these workers. As there are several things to be said about the minimum wage and the procedure, I would remind you that this government has already tabled a proposal in the Constitutional Review. It is proposed that the minimum wage is negotiated in the national collective bargaining, and that is where we will see each political force standing, where it stands and what it defends. Allow me, in order to respect the time, to make one final point. Since the first moment we have mentioned many times that labour issues are issues relating to democracy. The question of democracy that exists today, not only in Greece, but throughout Europe, is a question that has been created, not just by the rise of the extreme right, but by the space that has given the extreme right the dissolution of social relations, the eruption of inequalities and the devaluation of labour, which has occurred throughout Europe. That is why we say that protection of work is also a protection of democracy. And how critical this struggle is, we see it in Greek society, where we see a series of aspects of social cannibalism taking the head. We see these aspects of social cannibalism in people who defended those who shot migrant workers in Manolada and talked about boats that just got some out of the air. We see the faces of social cannibalism, when Golden Dawn is characterized by a popular authentic movement. And we see the faces of social cannibalism to all those who are willing to justify kalashnikov, and two months now they are struggling an innocent man. And this battle for democracy, like the battle for work, we will give it and win!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will do you the favor today, and I will admit that there is a fourth memorandum, so that a burden can be put on you. It is the Memorandum of Government SYRIZA - ANEL, a memorandum that we promised the Greek people and did so. It is our memorial, which undeniably leads the country to the clear exit from your catastrophic, material remembrances of previous years. Our memorandum restores collective agreements, shields the defenceless until yesterday's workers and restores their lost dignity. It is the Memorandum that redefines and increases the minimum wage and abolishes the subordinate. It's the memorial that puts a definitive brake on the employer arbitrary. It is the Memorandum that leads to justice all those who have done an institution for lawlessness, corruption and strife. It is the Memorandum which not only cuts pensions, but creates prospects for greater growth and measures to relieve over EUR 1 billion. It is our Memorandum that makes the promise of recruitment to health, education, special education, the permanentization of his workers "Help at Home", workers who are now an integral part of society and who have had them hostages, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation for the last five years. The day before yesterday, you had the nerve to protest outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for their alleged restoration. It is the memorandum that gives free access, without preconditions, to medical care, to helpless, insecure, insecure fellow citizens. It is the Memorandum that finally sets up the public social security system on its feet, a system that in the beginning - not to forget - in 2015 was unable to pay pensions. Four hundred thousand pensions were untreated. We had a deficit of 1,100,000 euros. Today, we have 1,200,000 euros surplus. In simple terms, that is to say, the sustainability of the insurance funds is guaranteed. In fact, I would like to ask you where you have hiden in these days the destructive parrots who came out in the morning panels talking about pension cuts and pensions of 150 euros and 200 euros. As magically disappeared all this time, although there are still some individual. It is the memorandum that creates prospects for our country to stop being seen as Europe's poor relative and finally to be treated as an equal member that will play an important role in creating a new, balanced European policy. Mr Mitsotakis - a prophet after all, as usual - tells us now that the pension cuts were inappropriate. Certainly that is not worth commenting, because everyone knows under what circumstances we have signed this measure. But it is important, Mr Mitsotakis, that the result be achieved. What Mr Mitsotakis deserves to tell us is this: The twelve cuts in pensions and salaries of his own government, which, I would remind you, were the cuts which impoverished the Greek worker and the pensioner and dismantled the insurance funds? If so, where did the money go? Mrs. Gennimata, the day before yesterday, said the Prime Minister asked the Greek people to thank him for what we were doing. Mrs. Gennamata, we want to tell you that neither we nor the Prime Minister are asking anyone to show gratitude. It is our commitment, obligation and duty. We are, however, calling for the Greek people to judge us for what we are doing, as we are calling for you to judge for what you are doing and bankrupt the country. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another proof of the acquisition of budgetary space, of freedom of movement, of surplus budget and of the ECA which leads to a deep and substantial reduction in free professionals, self-employed, farmers, young scientists, doctors, lawyers, engineers, that is to say the entire middle class. This draft law, whether you like it or not, is undoubtedly another positive and important action by the current government. Provision is made for the winding-up and payment procedure by the EMCDDA of the outstanding health and social security obligations that have been incorporated into the EEAS towards pharmacies and other private entities. The right to a statement of civil action shall be established only in order to support the category of workers whose wages are due, as well as the planned redundancy compensation. In addition, the effective fight against job-infringingability calls for a strengthening of the geographical coverage of the EIA structure. For this reason, it is planned to set up new labour relations inspection departments. Do not forget - and I say this because Mr Brutsis is here - that in half Greece the only control mechanism for the state, the EEAS, had been deactivated. Here, there was also a feasibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we have really fought hard. We've earned enough. We win because we claim the law of the Greek people who have been tested for eight years. We continue the war against the local and foreign establishments, against strife and corruption, against the political system that created the prospects for the impoverishment of the Greek people in the past years. Be sure that this war will be won. The Greek people will win it. Really, ladies and gentlemen, will you, for a long time, insist on your record of a fourth disastrous memorandum? Mr. Brutsi, let me personally address you, because you said hypocrites and lies. You said that supplementary pensions and one-off pensions were abolished, and you set an example. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thirty-five years ago, you said that the subsidiary for the self-employed will be under 30 euros and 3 000 euros the one. I want to let you know why you didn't do the arithmetic right. With the minimum contribution, with thirty-five years of service, the supplementary pension will be 139 euros and the single 18,984 euros. Let me tell you something else, because you have caused me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u191	Don't say any more, Mr. Comrade. Not to go in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u192	I'm done. Wait a minute, Mr. President. Because you spoke in your speech on group redundancies, in Presidential Decree 94/2014, clarification 53/466, in 2014 what was foreseen? Who was the Minister of Labour? Mr. Brutsi. What did he predict? The first team redundancies. I don't want you to answer me. I would like to tell you that the Greek people will answer you with their vote in October 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, on personal grounds I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Brutsi, why don't we leave the dialogue now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u195	I'm alone here listening to the storm.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u196	There is not even elementary understanding here. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I will be very brief in answering two, three comments from the SYRIZA speaker. Firstly, I would like to repeat for once, that SYRIZA spokesman and SYRIZA's colleagues must hear it: the total release of collective redundancies, whether you like it or not, has the signature of SYRIZA - ANEL. I'm saying this to get it over with. It's Law 3447/2017, Law SYRIZA - ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u198	Do you question the President-in-Office's Decree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u199	Secondly, he said something about supplementary pensions and the one-off one. I don't know where you're from, so I want to say this one more time. I said it once in my report, I wanted to stop it and bring it back. Because this is about the future and it is a structural change which neither lawyers nor those who pay subsidiary and one-off, so I tell you, Mr President, that after today's vote on the bill, the subsidiary is effectively abolished by means of defection, and so is the single one. At constant prices, I repeat, the single one will reach EUR 3 000 and the AS at monthly payment level EUR 30. If you continue to object, I will ask you - have scientists - study a proportionate approach - very easily - at constant prices after thirty-five years. You opened the way to business funds - I welcome this - but you can't be with each other either. The supplementary pension for freelance professionals and self-employed persons is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Does anyone doubt that you're going to fall out on this provision, too, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u202	It's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u203	One. You're going to fall out. You want thirty-five years? We'll be grandparents and we'll see. As we read it, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day both for the memorial era, which we are already experiencing, but also for the future of the overall plan, which we are implementing. This draft law is another step which marks a number of positive measures for society and the economy, measures announced by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and will come one - one for vote. Your every positive vote will be a tombstone in your destructiveness and an assumption that what you promise as Opposition, we implement it as a government. This is therefore another step towards strengthening the citizens' income available, boosting growth and restoring injustices. In other words, the enormous success of exiting the memoranda should also be seen in the daily lives of the citizens. We are well aware that interventions such as those brought by this bill on reductions in social security contributions to self-employed, self-employed, scientists, farmers are upset, because they are contrary to the Pinochet insurance, which you dream of. What is your plan, this "insurance Pinochet"? It is a deep class option in favour of the few and strong, reduction of contributions only to employers, transfer of funds to the multinational companies - whoever has money, pays and gets a pension - but also reduces paid pensions, since you will be deprived of resources from the insurance system. The others? The weak? In Kaidas, along with a compliment that they're lazy, that they're also failed. We are carrying out a reverse project, and indeed successfully: strengthening the world of work, solidarity between generations and protecting the weak. That was the core of your own disastrous policy, which aimed to break down the world of work and its rights. So what happened in the world of work and the insurance system until we take over the country's governance? The minimum wage was EUR 586 mixed, the subsistence salary of EUR 511 for young people up to 24 years old, unemployment close to 27%, two and a half million uninsured fellow citizens who were invisible of your own insurance and income and benefits, a medium-term reduction in pensions by 40%, without reducing contributions and an insurance system with a deficit of more than EUR 1 billion. Finally, you also took the money from the EOPY to pay the pensions, thus creating debts in hospitals. It's really a feat. You have a great talent for inefficiency and enormous obsession with neoliberal ideals. It doesn't explain any other way. That's a huge failure. That's the truth. So what did we do on the reverse? With the creation of the ECA, we managed to reduce contributions to the vast majority of the world of work, which with reasonable contributions began and paid. Secondly, we have reduced unemployment to 18.9%, creating three hundred thousand new jobs, increasing the revenues of the EPC - very reasonable and self-evident - and thus the deficit of the insurance funds that you have had from us has turned it into a surplus, which will be around EUR 1.1 billion for 2018. We have covered insecure fellow citizens in medical care, restored collective bargaining, and we have already activated eight branches, which relate to the daily life of two hundred thousand workers. We remove the lousy underpaid wages and increase the minimum wage. I'm going to do a little parentheses here. The leadership of the GFCM has decided not to participate in the dialogue to increase the minimum wage, because - he says - the SYRIZA is doing so for election reasons and votes. It is a disgrace and degeneration for the trade union movement, the only tertiary body that can take part in the negotiation to play your games old-fashioned at best and at worst match with employers. We, therefore, continue with this draft law and we are also lighting up two hundred and fifty thousand professionals, through reductions in insurance contributions to free professionals, scientists, self-employed people and farmers. In fact, in several cases, reductions reach up to 33%. So it restores a disproportionately heavy burden on the middle and high tiles that have "cut back" to get out of the memoranda and we can now alleviate them. I hear the argument that, as long as we reduce contributions, this is a admission from us that you were right to shout for so long, so you are entitled. You overlook the fact that it is a minority of those who paid more and we are now alleviating them. This is the first prisoner. Second prisoner: Really, why have you never reduced contributions to many while ruling? You only reduced the employers' contributions once in 2014 by a little and you didn't even care for the workers. Where are they, ladies and gentlemen, the destructive scenarios that have been so long for new contribu tions, reductions in pension shocks and gone by saying? You are consciously lying, making policy in terms of communication rather than substance, as has been admitted 'by mistake' - in introductory terms - and Mr Mitsotakis. Finally, someone else has the liar's name and someone else has the favor. And to close, a historical regression. Your two biggest lies are: First, that the Prime Minister lied at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition in 2014 and made other lies and your second lie is that he took the "no" and did it "yes", despite the fact that you voted "yes" in the referendum. Let the truth be heard once: The 'no' of the Greek people, therefore, has brought us out of the memorials. We have called for 'no' in the agreement to bring about a better and not to leave the European Union, and that is exactly what we have done. If you do not believe, take a look at the results of the September 2015 elections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two - and I'm closing - don't rush! When the election time comes, you will see that the Programme of the 2014 International Exhibition has been implemented almost all of it, even with some compromises. Then your account will collapse as a paper tower and we will compare your things with ours! People see and judge and see it in their pocket every month. He sees and who really cares about him, and so he will renew his trust for another four years, so that we can fully restore the lost ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u205	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u206	There have been some false information before, and I would like to put it to you. Mr Brutsis said that the reduction in the contributions for assistance and one-off, as all free traders can pay the minimum, about EUR 62 per month - of course they have the opportunity to pay further - will lead to the end of supplementary pensions and one-off pensions. He has given the example of an insured person who, with thirty-five years of insurance, will end up receiving - if I am not mistaken - a single EUR 3 000 plus a 30 euro supplementary pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u207	At present value.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u208	The reality is - fortunately for us, as you said - that with thirty-five years of insurance and the contributions we are introducing today, given that the free trader will pay the minimum of the contributions we import, he will receive a single EUR 19 000 and an additional pension of EUR 140 per month.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Castaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which, through the reduction of insurance contributions to the ECA, improves the income of two hundred and fifty thousand professionals, scientists and farmers, who account for 12% of the directly insured. The remaining 88% pays far less than in the past after the combination of the funds, i.e. the creation of the EBRD with the law of Katrugalos, as it prevailed to be called. And why are we talking about this today? Today, the finances of the unified ECA are allowed. Other improvements will also come in pension performance time - huge steps have been taken in the past - and in widow's pensions, increases in wages and pensions will come. And instead of having a unanimous decision on this relief, we have cries and attacks on the government by these counter-population forces who have committed to the detriment of social security for decades and believe that we and society have suffered amnesia. What happened in the past? You want to refresh our memory? Let's not go to the '60s when the reserves were deposited with 5% inflation and the drachma run by more than 30%. Let's look at today's, the most recent. A few years ago, the most famous state bond haircut stole from the insurance funds about 13 billion euros. And you have the nerve, Mr. Brutsi, to blame - today is your honorable - for hypocrisy recital and to shake our finger. You also know very well what the last name follows you since you were Minister of Labour, 'the wage and pension cutter', by the Ministerial Council Act you imposed and legislated on the undersubordinated wage for young people under the age of twenty-five years. How many billion did your government, the Government of New Democracy from the Treasury of Officials with the structured bonds? "Opening on the property of workers and pensioners and the workers' shift tomorrow," wrote "RIZOSOPASTI" in February 2012. "For years it became a mess" you told us in June 2014. So we also remember the pit in public health, which has been charged with the debts of billions of EEAs. We remember the stock market too. We also remember the pit with armaments expenditure and the pit with the seas. What should anyone want first? It is such a looting that this country has suffered, which some may indeed forget. That is why it is important to wonder where some guilty and accomplices can shake our fingers. Those who grabbed food from the table, those who took all the gifts, tell us that art to rule the people is difficult and only they can do it. The Greek people paid for their "art" and will unfortunately continue to pay for it, because the damage they caused is great. This bill is only part of a policy on social security, on labour, on the follow-up to previous laws. Now, without memorials, we are taking a step forward in recovering work, by improving the negotiating position of workers, by the free collective agreements, by increasing their income, the minimum wage in 2019 and the abolition of the subordinate, with the support of free professionals, farmers and scientists, by strengthening the social state. Nevertheless, despite all the positive measures coming under the first Memorandum of Understanding, such as the reduction of HPAI, the abolition of trade tax, the reduction of tax rates, the reduction of unemployment with new jobs, the cancellation of the Pension Reductions Act, and later the abolition of the Tax Tax Act - we will fight and achieve this too - we are not saying that we are done with the Memorandums and the Crisis. We have a long way to go, and this road to the future lies on the other side of the cliff, from the one where you led us, even as a one-way road. They can, as long as they want to baptize the fish meat, make jokes, they can say and say, "Goodness, they can distort reality to irrationality, but in society's scale the concept of decent work, the social state, justice, transparency and social solidarity will always count. These are the core of our own policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Augias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the government, even if the return is occasional. This bill is a confession of guilt. It's the admission of your destructive mistake. With today's bill you are finally pulling some of the Katorugalou law, a law that you appeared as an insurance reform two and a half years ago, a law that you appeared as an incision to the insurance system of the country two and a half years ago. You were saying similar things then. This is an insurance reform which has brought about the dissolution of the insurance system, as you admit today. This is an insurance reform that has been followed by the sterile and deadlocked way of inputs and cuts rather than by real reforms. Today you are starting to dismantle the insurance law of Katrugalo that with such passion, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, you have supported and voted. Since the first moment, we have been denounced for two and a half years that the Katorugalou law is unfair, does not lead to a sustainable insurance system and is not of a contributory nature, with low supplementation and gift cuts and permits in the calculation of pensions, such as five years for thirty pension years. From the first moment in the last two and a half years we have been denounced that the Katorugalou law is strengthening the tax evasion and leveling all the insured, but downwards. There is no compensation for insurance contributions with benefits. He's creating two classes of retired people. Then, of course, you were obsessed with the Katrugalos Act and a key pillar of it that was the single 20% in insurance contributions. Then, of course, you were passionately defending the country's productive potential as a fair choice to impose extremist contributions that led to stamina and suffocation, based on the small and medium-sized enterprises. You didn't realize you were destroying thousands of professionals, that you were povertying citizens, that you were punishing creativity. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the truth is that in your day your wages have fallen further, the debt has increased, the dues have increased. Most forced measures have ever been implemented by tax, while taxes and insurance contributions have reached the highest levels of modern Greek history in proportion to GDP. At the same time, the statements collapsed. The figures highlight your destructive work. The story of the primary surpluses you sell to us has dragons and traps. The proportion of tax revenue, but also of social contributions to GDP, has become the most historic one in your day. I will mention the following two elements. The GDP tax rate was 25.4% in 2014 and was launched at 27.5% in 2017. The share of GDP insurance contributions was 13.5% in 2014 and reached 14.6% in 2017. You received an economy in growth "more than 0.7%" in 2014 and led it to a recession for two consecutive years, i.e. "min. 0.3%" in 2015 and "min. 0.2%" in 2016. Indeed, you were able to achieve a real achievement, considering that a accumulated recession had precedented over twenty-five percentage points and that opportunity was lost because of you. While calling yourself workers' defenders, you have the sole responsibility for the new reductions recorded on your day at private sector wages. Dependant labour pay per employee fell by 2.3% in 2015 and by 0.9% in 2016, which means that employees receive even less than 2014. Indeed, in terms of purchasing power, the damage is even greater as inflation has returned to positive soil. As for the famous increase in the minimum wage - we have heard it here today - you are the government that has led Greek workers to be paid today with wages of less than EUR 317. According to the data from the ECA, one out of three employees is paid EUR 317. You are the government that made the generation of 317 euros. At the same time, you have caused the labour market to be overturned, after you have dominated flexible forms of employment against full-time. According to the figures in the 'ERGAN', only for October, parttime work exceeded 62%. Of course you are the government that led five million seven hundred thousand Greeks to owe insurance funds and the public the extra-real amount of EUR 137 billion, for which you are not speaking about. Today you're coming to make another cubism. Of course, it would be more honest to tell the citizens that you were wrong. But that also requires boldness, which you do not have. At least you're coming to fix a part of your mistake, which is something. You are therefore attempting to correct your mistake and abolish the fundamental principle of the Katorugalos law, which was the uniform principle of contributions. It reminds you of something, I guess. However, you are trying to correct your errors with semimeters, fragments and clipboards, friends and friends. Despite the 33.35% reduction, contributions remain very high for major categories of free professionals and scientists. From 1-1-2019 the loss of the insured income is abolished by 15%, so the reduction is shrinking even further. The method of calculating the pension is changed so that all the beneficiaries of the reduction have at the same time an equal reduction of 33.33% of the main pension. You deceived those who were employed with a service note - the well-known blocks - as you suddenly pushed them into the production process as employees. All these thousands who believed you and were victims of the Katrugalos Act, after the vote on today's bill will have a serious problem again, and that is why there will be pressures from outside their workplace, because of the high non-wage costs they will no longer be inconsistent with the rest of the workers. You create new problems for them with the carelessness and contempt that you legislate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, still. You are effectively abolishing both the supplementary pension and the one-off pension. After today's bill, supplementary pensions and one-off over time will lead to constant prices of EUR 30 per month and EUR 3000 respectively. In essence today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are doing well to abolish supplementary pensions and the one-off of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the reduction of insurance contributions, but we disagree with its limited application only to freelance professionals and scientists. You're trying to correct a mistake of yours, but you're creating new problems. You create two categories of workers with the same professional status. Contributions continue to remain high, as the remnant of the Katrugalou law does not work with the necessary recompense and proportionality. And these are basic principles to be effective, but the insurance system is also a fair one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u214	The contributions for employees remain exhaustive. Non-wage costs reach 41% with negative results at work and wage levels. Ladies and gentlemen of the government - I am closing down with this - with poorer, fewer and worse paid workers and increasingly weaker businesses you are seriously threatening the viability of the insurance system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u215	Thank you. My colleague Mr. Psychoyos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a sound answer. Responding both to the catastrophe scenarios that are being worked out by various circles and likes to adopt, in particular, the Civic Anti-Civilization, truly restraining its hopes, and even though this seems to be a oxymobile to the average citizen, the 2019 pension cut. But also in the confidence that the troika would always be here, that it was not worth fighting a government in such unfavourable circumstances and that nothing changed after August 2018. It is certain that this is not a success story and that there is still a long way to remedy injustices, heal the wounds and strengthen the middle and popular strata, such as the bill today sets and tries to restore them. In this direction, the government is using the fiscal space that has a clear target and a different policy mix in order to alleviate those most affected by the economic crisis and the chronic austerity policies brought in by the memorandums. We aim at policies that will cause the people to breathe and which will take place the next time through a series of bills to come to Parliament. The package of these measures began a few days ago with the resolution of EUR 820 million retrospectively paid to doctors from the RIS, university, judiciary, uniforms, state orchestras and related groups. The provisions introduced in this draft law provide for a series of positive measures for society and the world of work. First, with the new insurance scheme in force since 2017, most of the society has been reduced, it has seen reductions in contributions compared to those in force in 2016. This is a reality experienced by the Greek people, it is known, despite the make news and false evidence, and therefore cannot be called into question. This draft law substantially reduces insurance contributions for an additional two hundred and fifty thousand self-employed, self-employed and self-employed persons. What does that mean with numbers? For revenues of EUR 9 000, the reduction will be EUR 400 per year, i.e. 22.14%. For incomes of 12 000 euros, the reduction will be 803 euros per year, i.e. 33.35%. For revenues of EUR 20,000, the reduction will be EUR 1.336 per year, i.e. 33.35%. And for revenues of 30,000 euros, the reduction will be EUR 2.003 per year, i.e. 33.35% again. As far as lawyers, engineers and doctors are concerned, these reductions will be slightly smaller, because until 31/12-2020 the reductions already applied to these sectors apply. However, as a whole, the reductions will be higher than the contributions for an ancillary and one-off. In addition, farmers' insurance contributions are also reduced by 33.35%. In particular, the minimum monthly contribution to EUR 74 shall be maintained, as applicable, for incomes from EUR 4,922 to EUR 7,400. The farmer or the farmer, though, with an annual income of EUR 10,000 - and I would like to stress here that all these categories and revenues from 10,000 to 30 000 do not refer to some rich people, but to small and medium-sized self-employed farmers and workers - with the current framework would pay a contribution of EUR 150 per month, while in 2019 he will pay EUR 100 with an annual profit of approximately EUR 601. Another important arrangement is the liquidation and payment of the health insurance, pharmacies, other contracted individuals, health service providers, etc. by the end of 2019. A characteristic example from my industry is my fellow lawyers, who have received hospitals, can even be seen from 2012. With this regulation, they will finally be paid and can be strengthened in their work and in their lives. Apart from the above relating to social security, I would also like to point out some other provisions of the draft law that make substantial changes to the world of work. For the first time, therefore, workers are entitled to stand as politically claimants in criminal proceedings against employers because of their lack of payment or compensation for dismissal. In this way, we are actually strengthening the procedural position of workers with their presence in the court, which so far has not been foreseen. I particularly welcome this provision, because it was something that we SYRIZA Members had asked for with an amendment we had tabled in September 2017 and we are happy that it is finally being implemented. Furthermore, further institutional and organisational strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate is important. Let us not forget that the APR has been a front for the Ministry of Labour in recent years in the fight against the deregulation of the labour market and the exploitation of workers. In this way, the political leadership shows in practice the importance it attaches to this area and the control mechanism, which, together with the reintroduction of collective negotiations with the favourable regulation and expansion clause, will lead to minimum basic rules on the labour market. Finally, there is the establishment of three hundred and forty-three organic posts with targeted recruitments, sixty-nine bodies and social welfare and solidarity institutions that care for children, young people and chronic sufferers. While Article 27 extends and continues the free movement of the unemployed by means of public transport, through the OAED. These provisions show that we speak with works and deeds. We are practically showing the social objective of our policy. We show practically through bills, daily interventions and other initiatives that we are struggling for every person living in this country to live decently, to have equal rights and obligations, to enjoy equality. I do not want to go any further with the opposition, especially New Democracy and KINAL. After all, they are the ones who played the money of the insured on the stock exchange, the ones who haired the funds' reserves on the PSI and therefore they cannot say much. And for another reason: because our cubit, the left cubit, is too high and has a focus on man and his needs. We therefore welcome the bill, but we still have a lot to do and a lot to do. Thank you very much. I am voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u217	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, if a bill were to be judged by the reactions that this is causing to the opposition parties, the current one would definitely score with a fine, ten to tons. The combination of the substantial reduction in insurance contributions to a large proportion of our citizens, with the non-reduction of pensions, has created an explosive cocktail in the Chamber today. Anxiety, anxiety, and finally irritation. These feelings emerge from the discourses of opposition MPs. However, no one spoke of the unprecedented blow of our insurance system during the memorial period, when the sacrifices of Greek citizens did not take place and the reserves of the funds were either to the north on the mountains of speculators, or to the pretext of curbing the government debt, with the famous PSI Samara and Venizelos. Through a coordinate planning, the current government has managed to reverse the situation by rationalising the financial data of the EPC, but also by more general strategy to reduce unemployment and increase the number of people employed, who are now contributing to our insurance system. A noteworthy example of the importance of reducing unemployment for the sustainability of the insurance system is the fact that in 2017 alone, the two hundred and fifty thousand young workers paid EUR 470 million. They have thus made a decisive contribution to overcompensation of the revenues for which there was then a great deal of zeal from the Democrat Opposition to link it to the pretext for increasing taxes. This draft law reflects the prosperation of the sacrifices of the Greek people and of the government's policy. By maintaining the minimum contribution to the levels laid down in the Act of 2016, this legislative initiative reduces insurance contributions for an additional two hundred and fifty thousand employees. With regard to the main pension for the selfemployed and the self-employed, the insurance contribution is reduced from 1 January 2019 by 33.3% and is set at 13% of the current 20%. At the same time, for farmers, the reduction amounts to 33%, with the rate being 12% of the 18% which would be at the beginning of the new year, against every catastrophic scenario and every view in favour of continuing to impose unfavourable measures, on the grounds that they are structural. In addition, the contributions for supplementary pensions and single doctors, lawyers and engineers are reduced to the minimum currently applicable, i.e. at EUR 64,5 per month. Against these tangible profits of a wise policy, what is being proposed by the New Democracy? As its Chief of Staff informed us from Step ITH, it was aiming to reduce the main pension contributions from 20% today to 15%. As he said, the measure will concern all workers and will be applied gradually within four years in a forward-looking manner. I will go through the frontal way and ask myself: in what economy? In the damaged economy, in the deported, as you have always supported today? Who would make your promises? The inventors of the underprivileged, those who have abolished collective agreements, those who have reduced the minimum wage of more than 200 euros, people who have deregulationd the labour market and reduced full employment from 60% to 45%, those who have literally dismantled the Labour Inspectorate and closed the eye on 'black' work? The time when people's incomes were only compressing, without any reflection, has passed unreturned and it is good to see it. The political choice of the current government is to stand next to the worker, beside the insured person, trying to limit his injustices and to relieve him of the excessive burdens and arrogant obligations that he has imposed in the Memorandum years. The government thus supports the social security system, as well as the values and conquests of decades. The question that the Greek people have to answer is one: Neo-liberalism and violation of any working and insurance rights or safeguarding the conquests of popular movements? Are we going to return to the social jungle where employers and workers are hostages or are we going to ensure equal rights and equal access for all citizens to the structures of the welfare state? This is what we are about to vote on today, ladies and gentlemen. The lies have been finished with them and returning to the worst days of postmultiple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. My colleague, Mr Langer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to begin with the amendments relating to health, which really show how you are dealing with the last minute's regulations to cover your own illegality. The excuse for urgent procedure is flawed. Four years now you are now legislating by way of derogation, by circumventing all legal procedures, illegally. This can be tolerated in an exceptional case. In this context, however, crime is a burden, as the lawyers say, on a continuous and serial basis. Two things may happen: Whether you are incompetent or something else must happen. In any case, however, you're really amazing. At the time you celebrate triumphing for some alleged success, at the same time you confess your complete failure. Two in one, sort of like Vidal Sasoon one thing. So let us see what is sincere and what is hypocritical. What really reason do you have to triumph? Did it not cut pensions? Let's take things from the beginning, because with you guys in trouble, we have to start with the basics, the ones in elementary school. In a normal country, favoured by a normal government, it is normal for a government to triumph for a measure, which abolishes something that the former had established. A government, in other words, that comes and repeals a bad law that the bad previous government has voted, has every right to be proud of it. It is not normal for a government to triumph because it abolishes a law which it itself negotiated and voted on. That's not normal. Otherwise, we will come to the point where the government in question will legislate, and then come to legislation and say, "Give me." Nice guys you guys are after all! The metro of the further reduction in pensions you brought it, you negotiated it, you voted for it. And I say'more' because pension cuts have already been made by this government: 35% in the mains, 45% in the new pensioners' subsidiary, and a total of twenty-one reductions for both old and old, such as the CSCE and others. From the outset, therefore, we have said that this measure is inappropriate. We have even tabled an amendment calling for you to come and vote together. Our President, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, did not stop on all his journeys and all his meetings with the representatives of the institutions to point out to them how unnecessary and harmful and this measure is, which Mr Tsipras never did when he was in Anti-Population. On the contrary, you and Mr. Katrugalos declared that it was a law jewel, which ensured - what was Mr. Katrugalos saying about it? - insurance law. The Prime Minister said so in his speech. He also said that it was a'rehabilitation'. But since the insurance was ripped off by the Katorugalou law, why are you triumphing today for today's law? It is therefore welcome to all of us to reduce some contributions to groups of professionals, such as farmers. Let's say it's about 10% of farmers. It does not concern all farmers. But you admit - it is enough to read the report in order to find out - the complete failure of the Katorugalou law, a law that we have told you from the outset how bad, unfair and punishable for work. You saw the professionals protesting on the tie movement. Kick - threaded now you're pulling out the Katorugalo Law sweater. And you're doing well, but you're not celebrating! You'll bring bills in the next period, and it's about some tax reliefs. Is that what you have the right to celebrate? Why? Why will you reduce the tax on businesses from 29% to 28% or VAT from 24% to 23%? But one of you found it at 26% and the other you found it at 13%! Just tell me what Mr. Tsipras says to the Greek people. "Greek people, in the four years I have been in power, mad at taxes. I broke into the middle class, but if you give me four more years, I promise you that I will bring back things where I found them in 2014.” Awesome! "Give me eight years to get you back where we were in 2014." Hypocrites to the end! And what is the means to justify this supposed success? What's the cheese? The most infamous surplus, which no one has asked us to do and which is actually a brake on any development. It makes it - I'd say - forbidden. It is a surplus that all of us know - and better than all of us Greek citizens know - that it is not the product of real development. It is not a product derived from the growth of GDP, but it is a product of overtaxation, of payment and of bleeding the corps of public investment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is simple and simple: a country that takes the money from the public investment corps to make it Christmas election tips cannot talk about growth. That's not how growth comes. Meanwhile, the country is leaping at all levels. We cannot get out on the markets, which is what makes a country's economy normal. Why else, who will come to invest in a country where the economy does not stand on its feet? And since we talked about investment, in our country the investments are not coming today. They're just leaving. They carry their seat elsewhere. The day before yesterday was the 'Titana'. Yesterday it was the 'BLACKROCK'. "ELLENIKI CRYSOS" is outlawing demanding compensation of hundreds of millions for the delay he has suffered. The Greek? The Amazon's jungle! Should we eventually change the investment of the Greek island, make an investment and organize safari in the Greek forest? It wouldn't be a bad idea. The public debt to private individuals rather than being paid is growing. The private sector was launched, with thousands of employees remaining unpaid for months in the public sector, such as school guards, but also in the private sector, such as OAED programs that remain unpaid. Reforms have reduced to the extent that our institutions are hitting the alarms and tell us that we may not get the money we are given on time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It makes us take 600 million about the end of the year. Our counterpart is at 4.65%, when Portugal, another country that came out of the memorials, today is close to 1.80%. The economy of the country goes from bad to worse and does not just show it, the European Union itself says: 'We are the last in Europe today'. Of course, we have scandals, like the recent DEPA that you're trying to hide. I'll just remind you for a minute - and I'll close with it - what the DEPA scandal means. People are listening to us from upstairs who might not know. The Public Gas Provider, ladies and gentlemen, has a customer of a well-known businessman's interest. During the years and following credit to this company, the latter, the company, had to owe the PPC tens of millions. Then, then, the CEO sent an extrajudicial where he invited them in a reasonable time to pay back. Otherwise, he would have to stop providing and take the necessary measures that the law tells him that he can carry out. What was the result? The next day, the CEO was fired asking for the money. And what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Fotella, you can finish it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u222	And he was appointed as a young man. Who? The CEO of the company that owed the money. The epitome of the conflict of interest. And it doesn't end there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Firela.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u224	Just a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Colleague, you've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u226	I'm just gonna need a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u227	Yes, but we have to come to an understanding. Help me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u228	I'd be done in a minute, Mr. President. It's not over there. But what's he doing? It gives the right to payment through post-paid checks to six, seven and eight months, not even of the same company, but of the third company, offshore. How reliable is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u229	You're done, Mr. Lightla. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u230	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, we have been sitting all day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u233	Yeah, but I asked for the seven minutes to be five. You didn't agree. Now nine, ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u234	You have all shown tolerance, Mr President. People will think we have some kind of staff, and that's not happening. I'm just finishing up with this. One thing you didn't forget: Upgrade the Prime Minister's menu. The new menu has beef fillet, salmon and other treats to be offered to passengers. It was the plane you would sell with "good morning", along with the armored Mercedes. The Greek people see and in a few months they will give you the answer you deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u235	Thank you. Please help, ladies and gentlemen. We still have twenty-five speakers. So we're going too late. Help the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, fifty-one members from the 3rd CFP of bees. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Welcome to the Greek Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the draft law on the reduction of insurance contributions. Thank you for coming! Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. What passion fills with a fly in mind? Your passion! Tricymia! And I do not understand why so passionately, when at least so far we have not heard the New Democracy formulate something different that could be a way out for the major problems of social security. What I have repeatedly heard, and the Greek people too, is that you promise another situation in the Social Security system, with the dissolution of the ECA and the transfer of subsidiary insurance to the private sector. This means a complete collapse and abolition of any supplementary pension provision. The example of the National Bank is intense and people live where they do not retire in December, because in 2005 the government made the incision and put the young people in another subsidiary fund and the old left them in what they can no longer give a single euro. That is what you promise to do about subsidiary and main meetings. The result of the deficit resulting from the reduction in the levy as a whole and from 20% to 15% is measured. That's what I hear from the New Democracy. I have not heard support for social security and pension rights. What we are hearing is a promise, if the New Democracy government comes to things, to drastically cut pensions from the first year. The two-and-a-half billion that will arise as a deficit cannot be balanced otherwise, because we have repeatedly explained that 16.2% of the budget expenditure alone can be provided for pensions in relation to Gross National Product. So it is specified that the fate of the retired suffers enormous catastrophe and that you promise of the future. The Minister told you that, with thirty-five years - and these are based on proportionate studies, it is not because we invent the figures - and with the small contribution, the minimum, paid by the insured, i.e. only EUR 64 together with the one-off, that is, EUR 40 only in the subsidiary, the pension comes out of EUR 139 and the one-off contribution of EUR 23 is being paid close to EUR 19 000. Why is that? Because the amount you pay has one return. In the year that passed us, in 2017, the return on the Single Insurance and Insurance Fund, the EIB, was 3%, and we estimate by 1.5% the return on capital. So it's a conservative prediction, because over time you can actually get bounces and not get that much of a performance. Right now, it's so much money coming out. However, as if you do not listen, you say exactly the same things and do the same gestures. The same instructor trains you what to say, the same scenario and you do the same gestures. It's impressive. We all see you making the same move with confidence, that is, seemingly, as to the correctness of what you say, but you cannot confirm them at all. You say that all this policy, which we confirm as correct, is based on evidence experiments, that we are changing the evidence, that we are not giving pensions, which is why we have surpluses, that we have increased contributions. The contributions paid together by the free professionals, farmers, scientists, and for 2018 are together 1,700,000 euros less. How can we get a reduction in contributions? In 2017 we received 730 million less contributions than you say that we broke him in relation to the previous year, when there was no n.4387, the Katrugalou Law. How come we slaughtered our free professionals? It's not working. But why did it happen, and we have better revenues, will you say? Because, my dear, collectivity has increased. People who have not been able to pay all these years and have been strangled all the time and have not been able to meet basic health and medicines requirements that they did not receive, because they were debtors, are the reason why we had such a good result. I submit for the minutes information on the collection of contributions and the increase in collection in all categories of insured persons. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, presents for the minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] As far as pensioners are concerned, it will be confirmed that we have not cut pensions. We promised. And we promised not just because we wanted to, but because we knew that the International Monetary Fund imposed this provision on us, and we had to accept it in order to overturn it, which is now the case, because the third assessment had to be closed. We knew we would achieve the surpluses we had said and we did the above. A million four hundred and twenty thousand pensions will not be reduced and you need to add six hundred and twenty thousand to them, with an average increase of around 96 euros, monthly. These are the evidence. That is, two million eighty thousand of our pensioners not only will not have a reduction, but six hundred twenty thousand of them will also have an average increase of EUR 99. Farmers have no influence. Six hundred thousand farmers have not entered this procedure, but they will be gradually increasing their pensions, with information that the Minister will give you. We have studied the data and proceeded with a better return on the farmers' pensions. They are the pensions of the farmers you want, on a proposal from PASOK, which once again expressed the farm, to degrade them again to the OGA situation, which, by decision and the 2002 law, would no longer give a basic pension in 2025. To let farmers hear that they want to be taken away from the bodies of the rest of the citizens of this country, to degrade them to a hunger pension, when what is already achieved, and to be confirmed, is an increase in pensions for farmers. And I come to widow's pensions. Let me start by saying that all the provisions we have put forward, namely No.4387, are changing things in depth and improving them. It turns out in every way I'm going to tell you. You say that with twenty-six of the legislative interventions we have made, we correct and we dismantle the Katorugalou law. We're cleaning up the old system. It's about old times. I can list one by one, but I don't have the time. We made a contribution of 354 million that you had wrongly withheld. We gave insurance to people who didn't have medicine and health, even though they had debts from the past and couldn't have had cover, just because they gave the minimum contribution since 2017. We gave retrospective insurance to the school guards you fired. They have been hired and we have been fully covered with insurance, with summer legislation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] We have reduced by 50% the contribution of those who have forty years of insurance and can continue. We gave the farmer the opportunity, with a simple statement, to become a direct farmer insured, when he had to wait two and three years before. We paid an extra-institutional allowance to the sufferers in the way they are suffering from quadruples, but they are not quadruple. We have given farmers the possibility of reduced takeovers. We have given it - and I say it about PASOK, KINAL or, as it is said - the possibility for those with an income of up to EUR 4923 to be able to grow without paying contributions and without having a pension cut. I'm talking about Mr. Koutsuko. Move it, Mr. Constantopoulos. This has entered into force by regulation already since 2018. There is a regulatory provision. Read it. The farmers are covered. Farmers who have made an old application and are registered by old without surcharges and interest, because they have been delayed by the system to register them, will have no health contribution obligations, because they have not been covered. We have abolished, with this provision that we are now going through old debts to the single pensioners of the health pension fund. We gave parallel insurance increases in pensions by 0.75% for each unit above. Anyway, because I do not want to abuse time, if you see all the provisions, we have neither altered the substance nor the structure of Law4387. Instead, we have strengthened its aspects, and we have corrected all the problems that existed for many decades, culminating in the reduction of debts from the old system, which were strangled with 100,000 euros, 150,000 euros and 200,000 euros of our fellow citizens. And deleted by selecting a button to delete their debt, maintaining the insurance contribution to one of the insurers. These things even in your dream! And no one ever did, because you in all these years when these problems were created or you abstained or caused them. We solve them and we will continue to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Anastasia Gara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am always interested in discussing a bill in this House, mainly because I expect to hear fundamentally political arguments on the subject that we are discussing. So today I expected to hear and discuss politically always arguments about the philosophy and structure of the insurance system, improvements, changes or anything else that can be corrected, as the insurance system is one of the most important pillars of the social state. And that is about thousands of workers, and we are insured and retired. I would also expect to discuss whether it is also in the right direction, and today's reductions. Because there could be more good proposals. But I also expected to hear examples and arguments about the Pinochet system, about the redistributive or analogue system, to analyse whether we should play the money insured in gambling or on the stock exchange, talk about structured bonds, and whether they have benefits. Also, we need to talk about the benefits of the PSI. However, I note a lack of arguments and a disgrace - I would say - from the opposition parties. At best, the word of the anti-population parties highlights destructiveness. Sometimes he talks about cooking or using conspiracy arguments. So we heard that the Katorugalou law is a graveyard for the insured and pensioners, but you have not explained why or at least I have not understood it. Why is it a tombstone? Why is it a fairer and more proportionate system? Why have the contributions been reduced for most of the insured persons? Why in a year has he managed not only to balance the system, but also to have a surplus? Why was the basic national pension introduced? Why is it a tombstone? Honestly, I do not understand and I urge colleagues and colleagues to explain this to us. We heard - listen, listen! - also that it was a dark plan to impose measures to then make them look good to the Greek people. As Mrs Vulture said - which we heard a moment ago - the logic says that measures go in to get out. And since that is what the logic says, Madam President, I would like to ask you: why did you put billions of money into it and not make one? Tell us a memorial measure you imposed and you've taken it back. So why didn't you bring back the dozens of cuts you had made in pensions, since the measures are not to get in, but to get in and out? That, however, is annoying and that is causing a great deal of disobedience and absence. Why, we have seen that Mr Mitsotakis, like the other heads of the parties, did not have the courage to come to Parliament and really to discuss with political arguments about the basic pillar of the social state - I repeat - our insurance system. Because they only use the insurance system as an argument and as an element of opposition and destruction, terrorizing the Greek people. We have not heard a single positive proposal which could help improve this system. So what is disturbing is not only the non-cutting of pensions or the reductions to the Greek people. What is annoying is the success of the Greek Government, is the success of the Greek people, the success of the Greek people coming out of the crisis, getting out of the memorials and the burdens with corrective moves, the reductions to Greek citizens, but also the stimulus to our production, economy and society. We will therefore continue to support the insurance system, as we have been doing since the first day, but also the social state, no matter how far the New Democracy is. We will continue to support the weakest and most sensitive social groups, we will continue to remove injustices. One - we will lift these injustices that have been imposed and created over time. There are also responsibilities for this, and there are some people in this country who need to be apologised at some point. We will continue to return the surpluses produced to the Greek people rather than to the pockets of friends and acquaintances. Because the Greek people deserve these surpluses, as they produce, they move the economy. The economy is not moving into someone's pockets and becoming richer and richer. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going back to this bill. I think that, from whatever viewpoint, it remains a fact that this draft law brings significant reductions in the insurance contributions of about two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals, self-employed and farmers. More specifically, while maintaining the minimum contribution to the levels provided for in the relevant Act of 2016, we are reducing the contributions of the self-employed to a main pension by 33%, from 20%, which is currently 13.3%. Farmers are also significantly reduced to 12% from 18% in 2019 to 13.3% from 2022. I would also like to point out that in recent years the Ministry of Labour has voted for the draft legislation, namely this bill, but also the draft law on pension regulations, the strengthening of the protection of workers and the rights of persons with disabilities, but also undeclared work, constantly introduces regulations that strengthen and extend workers' rights, improve their everyday lives and seek to create a framework of normality that was absent in recent years from the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into detail the positive provisions of this bill. I would, however, like to make a special reference to Article 24, which provides for the establishment of a new Labour Inspectorate based in Orestiad and of competence and scope in the Municipality of Souflios, Dimotikou and Orestiad. Also, the competence of the Alexandroupolis Department and Samothraki is extended. Let me remind you - I will not take much time, Mr President - that in a recent tour of Mr Iliopoulou and Mrs Ahtsoglou they had spoken with workers and the inspectors and had accepted the request to create this section. It was a commitment of the Ministers, and today we see that the night in which the law was passed will also be a fact. This is of particular importance to me and shows which of our political representatives, that their problems are being addressed, but also that they are working and implementing their commitments. In closing this speech, so as not to eat time, I would just like to remind this House. It is definitive and it is reflected in the budget that the measure of the pension cut is cancelled, shall not be suspended. I understand why New Democracy insisted on parole. He wanted to bring the cut back - that's what I understand - precisely because it's part of his political programme, part of his philosophy policy. That's why we're different. Because we know how to set targets, we know how to fight, we know how to achieve them for the benefit of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u240	I will only say one word, Mr President. Because there is the phrase 'over 25 years' in some of the provisions and this distinction will be abolished in 2019 for the 25 years and below, it is unnecessary to say it now, because this provision is of short duration anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Minister. The Houseary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Hadjisavvas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. It is indicative of the strange state of this draft law that everyone celebrates, everyone approves: lenders, loan sharks, New Democracy, PASOK, along with the government. Actually, they don't exactly approve, congratulate each other on who came to the other's seats while arguing. So when they congratulate each other and celebrate Greek society must be afraid. When the government agrees with lenders, it means that they will be affected by labour and social rights. SYRIZA representatives are mainly enough to read the draft law as it was distributed. Otherwise, if they are deepened, they should be primarily admitted to the mistake of the Katrugalo Law. On the other hand, the spokesman of the New Democracy spoke only three minutes about the bill. What else can he say, after he agrees with everything, along with PASOK, who forgets that their own duplicate, as they served for decades, led us to a cliff with the funds reserves, the toxic bonds, the PSI and all the others, which the Greek people now know and sees some people go to court and prison? So we were put in the memorials, reduced with SYRIZA 80% of the incomes of the Greeks and led to the migration of thousands of Greeks, whether scientists or workers. But how can they speak and admit the mistakes they made in previous legislations? The Memorandum Governments made these mistakes by overtaxing and bleeding with unbearable contributions. But these mistakes cost human lives, closed stores, businesses, closed homes, mortgaged the future of our children. And now you think that with such laws that return some "fly" will open up the stores that have closed, they will pay off the debts to which they have submerged the workers and the free traders? The young men who migrated will come back with such bills? So you are voting for the Katorugalu law on insurance justice, that is, the basic pillar of 20%, again not enough. The reduction must be made even greater, there must be more general care for how companies survive, how workers survive, because the reduction in duty will result in a higher burden than the relief that this bill brings. Over 60% of workers work with part-time and rotating work, paid at EUR 300 - that is their pay - and they do not count as unemployed, they seem to be paid, as do thousands who fled abroad are counted as a reduction in unemployment. All of what I mentioned will be well lived by Greek society since 1 January 2019. Confusions already exist in some categories. They have denounced some wage lawyers who changed their institution that they were doubled into the funds and the automatic system pulled them out of the arrangements. We are going to find illegal pensions and other irregularities, and, on this occasion, punish those who took their pensions lawfully and fairly, and are now being called upon to pay for the broken and thus big businessmen and the media who owe millions of contributions and employees are never called upon to pay. There's no talk of them today. Only it is enough that these big-time debt-sufferers give your parties a step from New Democracy to the JRC, so you can speak. For a state of law, social security is not only a concern to see whether the person paying pension contributions will at some point, which of course has to get and be entitled to it. It is also the free and quality health services that the state should provide to the citizens. But the Memorandum Governments have broken all these working rights and if they are now saying that creditors do not have any more requirements, then that means that they have taken everything and nothing else left to take and that is why they have no other requirements. If we get out, as they say, from the memorials, then nothing will be taken back by those who lost rights, except some "fly" that will be for their survival. Social security, therefore, at all levels, is a state's obligation, as is the State's right to work for all. But what you do not tell the world you are calling on him to make sacrifices again and again is that in all international discussions we are talking about the debts of the states and the insurance funds and that in the coming years on a global scale, as the collapse of the banking system came, and the collapse of the insurance system worldwide. Now, for the bill relating to justice insurance: Where is justice? The French-speaking mammoth Jean-Claude Oswald took out the bracelet and left. He was the master of the "black funds" of the "SIEMENS", arms looting, flying radar of the "ERICKSON". He tabled a question to this effect by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn II Athens, Ilias Panagiotaros, and he asks a few things very simply: Is it so easy to escape from this surveillance system? Is it so easy to take off this tracking transmitter, the bracelet they say? What will be done to prevent others from following the example of this one’s escape? Also, the Golden Dawn was confirmed regarding its attitude to retrospectives. Already there are voices that say they lose the right to retroactive claim. There is one example of police officers and special guards who were hired in 2010 and 2011, who with reservations and taxes from the retrospectives are asked to pay between 250 and 4,000 euros each and now some "do not worry, plus - but there you will assimilate them, go to zero, and all good". We're kidding, I mean! With regard to the issue of several thousand euros in retrospective Members, it is good not only that no Member should collect retrospectively, but it would be right not to dare and vote on such things. In all this comes the Greek schoolchildren to give us strength. Despite all the problems each student faces in his home, the survival problems faced by his parents make occupations and marches against the sale of our Macedonia. Everyone supports the students in this move. Few marginals only react, something left ideological fossils of the SYRIZA, against the occupations, against the protests of the students. They cannot understand - and this is the great fear - how from a perfectly controlled by ideologists and infrared left-hand environment students come out who become a patriotic river and shout that Macedonia is Greek. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the effort made by one of the government to engage in within the same paragraph and connect the Golden Dawn with kalashnikov, the shooting of workers in Manola and the shooting of the dead. It's good for SYRIZA the issue of kalashnikovs, kalashnikov robbers, don't touch it, leave it better. As far as Manolada is concerned, it was shown that they were fans, even organized by another party, whose plundered voters you, so it is likely that your perpetrators are now also your voters. And as far as the shooting of the dead is concerned, let us now, the Left has built a heavy industry of political fraudulent production on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Loverdes has the floor to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I have listened to Mr Petropoulos, but a part of his speech in the first few minutes I have not heard it because I was out of insight, Mr President, and I ask you to speak on it. Our arguments, not my own, have been raised, but in general the arguments against which every Member of Parliament opposes their very ambitious and arrogant sometimes arrogances for their achievements. It's called an element that's interesting. He said the man: how it is going to increase contributions to the free traders, farmers, etc. And did EKKA have for this year 1 billion less revenues? My reaction arises from this phrase. Mr Petropoulos is missing, so will colleagues. If it has 1 billion revenues for the year 2018, then it means that the data, that the insurance relationship is going well and that the ECA has now the money needed to cope with the insurer's difficulties, it is false. Secondly, if we really see the issue of this number from another perspective, we need to make two findings, which I particularly want to ask him. Is it true that the avoidance levy has increased? Is it true that the insured, in view of the unreasonable burden of contributions, which look like taxes now, resort to the solution to declare smaller incomes under EUR 8,000, in order not to be insured with the burdens of the insurance contribution, as laid down by the Katrugalos Act? These are questions that X-ray its findings and I would like clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u245	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. My colleague, Mr. Cavadas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the wise people tell us that lying is short of legs and, unfortunately, the moment of truth is enough for you. It is time for citizens to judge strictly the damage you have caused both the country and the citizens. One by one, your delusionals collapse. They break down and land you perversely in reality. As much as you are trying to mislead citizens, however you are trying to mitigate the tragic effects of your policy, you cannot reverse reality. And the reality is, everyone has now understood you. They've realised that with tools of populism, false promises and misinformation, you can't do the white one. Whatever returns you make, citizens know and will give you the appropriate answers to the elections that are coming, whenever they decide to do so. Because the circle of lies has to be closed. And it will close in the next election campaign for both the good of the political system for both the country and the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a bill that is a little bit more dismantled by the Katorugalou law. We are talking, in other words, about a further fucking government which fully vindicates the position of the New Democracy, which has been shouting for two and a half years now about the monstrous 'big insurance reform', as your previous Minister has advertised it. Today, then, the government itself comes to change what, for two and a half years, has been passionately defending. It comes to abolish the substance of the law, i.e. its fundamental principle of the single contribution. You do it like the pension cut, which you voted for, and now you get it back. You're right. We agree, too. But you don't, because you suddenly loved retired people, but why elections are coming and you want to secure the chair. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, two and a half years ago you imposed a uniform and horizontally neutralist contribution, which led to impoverishment and suffocation of the country's productive potential, which unprecedentedly burdened the private sector, which have disappeared every prospect of healthy entrepreneurship and have punished creativity. Today you are attempting to correct your error with semimeters, fragments and clipboards. But neither can these interventions cover the particularly negative consequences of the previous law. In particular, firstly, the contributions remain very high, despite the 33.3% reduction for major categories of free professionals and scientists. Secondly, the deduction of insured income by Genoa by 15% is abolished by Genoa, so the reduction is considerably reduced. Thirdly, according to Article 7 in the draft law, the method of calculating the pension is changed, so that all the beneficiaries of the reduction have at the same time an equal reduction of 33.3% of their main pension. Fourthly, you eliminate supplementary pensions and one-off pensions. The most important thing, however, is that today you admit that the exterior increase in the contributions you have made has led to a reduction in both the number of self-employed and the self-employed and their declared income. You even admit in the preliminary draft budget that your ideological obsessions harmed the most productive parts of the economy. They harmed free professionals, doctors, lawyers, engineers, economists, self-employed and farmers. Unfortunately, however, you are forgetting about the business again. You even refuse today to make a reduction in insurance contributions to employed persons, dare to reduce the contributions of businesses and entrepreneurs, reduce the non-wage costs. You stubbornly refuse to give a breath to other private sector workers who also suffer from your punishing policies. Listen, Minister, and a paradox that shows you have no idea how the market works. In a category 2 book company all insurance contributions are deducted from profits, while in a category III book book company they do not deduct. In other words, a third-class company, if it has a profit annually of 100,000 euros, pays about 8,000 euros more than the second-class company, for it will also be taxed for insurance contributions. Isn't that unfair? Isn't it unequal treatment? Shouldn't that be corrected? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it would be nice before you came here with this bill to make your self-criticism. At least you should have had the political courage to face reality. The reality is that for your days taxes and public debts have increased to the public. We are talking about hundreds of new real estate auctions and thousands of bank accounts are being seized, even for debts of EUR 500. Nowadays we have reached hunger wages. We've reached 317 euros. You abolished the ESS. You have brought the collective redundancies, while six out of ten workers have part-time and rotating jobs. And you boast that unemployment has declined with hunger wages! These are your "achievements". Unfortunately, the list of your tragic policies is not exhausted here. You transferred the public property for ninety-nine years. You brought additional measures of EUR 9.5 billion. You've broken up the economy. You've dissolved the middle class. The poor have become poorer and you share them with a group and benefits. Discover unprecedented terrain, promising assignments. You plan to throw away tens of thousands of priests from the state, putting in so many new assignments to build your party army. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. All this is unprecedented and humiliating about the Greek political riots, on the backs of a people hoping for better days, on the backs of pensioners who are shaking for their pensions and on the hopes of young people hoping for a job. So lower your eyes in front of the narrow world, because the arrogance of authority does not allow you to listen to them. The world is suffering, but you continue to believe that the antidote is lies and populism. But soon the world will give you the answer you deserve through the poll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u249	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u250	I would like to make a very brief remark, because it is an element that we hear and rejoice with the New Democracy colleagues. Obviously there is a party note telling them to refer to the fact that six out of ten private workers work parttime. This comes from nowhere and has nothing to do with reality. Read a little carefully the evidence. At the moment, seven out of ten workers are full-time and not part-time. You're getting and reading wrong...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u251	Are you fighting us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u252	I'm talking about the evidence. Can't we just call the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u253	Are you interrupting the talkers' turn to say this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u254	No, I'm not interrupting the show. You have a problem with restoring the truth? I'd be done if you didn't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u255	Is that the evidence, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u256	Yeah, that's the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u257	Mr Colleague, the Minister has made a clarification. I don't think that's out of its reach.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u258	Well, then I'll interrupt now and tell you about the evidence we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u259	I didn't interrupt anyone. I asked for the floor and said a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u260	There's a flow here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u261	Please, Mr. Comrade. I can run the conversation myself. The Minister gave an explanation as to why he is responsible for these matters. What can we do? Let this thing be called into question, but it has the right to intervene to say something that it thinks it is not true. Mrs Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Would you have to bend your eyes, Mr. Colleague, and not accuse us that we should bend our eyes to the Greek people and not take over the chair? What chair? The one we rightly understand, why did the Greek people trust us in his vote? You should therefore be patient by October 2019 and then we will see what the Greek people will decide. For the time being, it is clear that the first steps of memorial Greece have been quite noisy of the old political system and that part of entrepreneurship that has been linked to it. Their concern is so diffuse that every day the country is flooded by a false news orchestra, and here too, and efforts to disorientate. It is not so much about their disappointment that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government succeeds in getting the country out of the crisis when they have failed to manage it. It is mainly the fact that their prospect of returning to power is dramatically removed. At the same time as it is necessary to make a substantial controversy about the content of development, which is a sure prospect, the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis are engaged in a crescendo of catastrophe in order to curb its momentum. When this doesn't come out of things, then they bleak, inside and out of the country, that it's the ones who can promote it better. With unbelievable verbatimism and an amazing speed in changing positions, they attempt to poison every positive initiative by the government and inspire doubt and suspicion to the Greek people. But the facts are facts. Pensions not only will not be cut but, on the contrary, about five hundred thousand pensioners will see from 1-1-2019 their pensions growing, precisely because of the insurance reform that we are doing today. And the main pension contributions are reduced by 33% for freelance professionals, self-employed and farmers and the scheme of reductions in contributions for young scientists improve and decrease to a minimum the contribution for single and even retroactively from 1-1-2017 for self-employed, scientists, engineers, lawyers and doctors. EKKA, with the Katrugalos Act, is a surplus of 1.5 billion euros and gives us the margin for reducing contributions to a million two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals, self-employed and farmers. 88% of these categories already since 1 January 2017 pay lower contributions than those paid before the operation of the ECA. This further reduction will be decided on with this bill, a reform which has, for the first time, linked the real economic potential of the self-employed to their insurance contributions. We certainly recognise that this is painful for the destructors, but who forgets that they have given the insurance system a deficit and four hundred thousand unpaid pensions? In particular, in 2016 with the old scheme only 27 % of the self-employed paid a monthly contribution of less than EUR 200. In 2018 with the new scheme 88% of self-employed pay a monthly contribution of less than 200 euros. With this bill, two hundred and fifty thousand extra employees will see a reduction in their insurance contributions. The additional relief in 2019 is EUR 230 million and a total of over 700 million compared to 2016. The total relief for the self-employed from 1-1-2017 to 31-12-2019 will exceed EUR 1.7 billion. Allow me here, in particular, to refer to the article on the insurance contributions by farmers, particularly as an example of the favourable arrangements that we are introducing. The main pension insurance contribution for farmers with an annual income greater than EUR 4922 is reduced by 33.3%, i.e. 12% of 18% in 2019. The minimum monthly contribution of EUR 74 on the basis of the applicable minimum wage for income from EUR 4,922 to EUR 7,400 shall be maintained. I am tabling an indicative table on the Minutes with the reduction of insurance contributions for the main pensions of farmers. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Chryssolula Katsavria - Sioropoulou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, all the above-mentioned persons have the possibility of paying higher amounts of contributions if they wish to build up the right to a higher pension. The free movement of the unemployed, the institutional shielding of the APRC, the reorganisation and strengthening of the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as many other favourable regulations included in this bill, as well as those that will follow, of course, do nothing but prove to have entered a transitional but extremely interesting period during which the positive effects of exit from the board and the memorandums are overtaken. Perhaps the opposition is angry or awkward in the face of the collapse of its mythology. It is her problem and not the society of many. However, nothing can stop our efforts for a better tomorrow for the Greek people, for their needs and support, for the reduction of unemployment, for our country's progress towards fair growth and productive reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and three teachers attending the Korinou Pieria High School. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, boys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to inform the House that the Committee on the Reporting and the General Balance sheet of the State's implementation and control of the State's budget submits its report to the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: a. ‘Preparation of the State Financial Year 2016 Report’ and (b). ‘Preparation of the Balance sheet of the State of the financial year 2016’. My colleague, Maria Therlerite, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is proof of the new memorial period in our country. The exit from the memorials is not typical, as is often mentioned by the Opposition, but essential. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] With the present bill, the grant of the rent to four hundred thousand families, the returns of the retrospectives to uniforms and doctors, but also other measures that will follow, such as the reduction of HISPIA, will be more secure in their daily lives and with a view to the future. In contrast to the New Democracy disaster about the break-up of our insurance system and the collapse of the economy, we are responding with concrete budgetary changes, with priority for our fellow citizens who have borne the biggest burdens, such as farmers, self-employed, young scientists. In this way, then, a step - step by step, but firmly the country comes out of the difficult situation and implements the commitments announced by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, with the aim of restoring the economy, but also the practical support of a significant productive part of the country, the free traders. The bill, while maintaining the minimum contribution to the level laid down by the Insurance Contribution Act, reduces them for an additional two hundred and fifty thousand non-employees. I will not go into detail what is happening in every sector. I will focus only on free professionals, for whom from 20% today, it goes to 13.33%, for farmers it is reduced from 18%, from 1-1-2019, to 12.67% and then 12.67% for 2020, 13% for 2021 and 13.33% for 2022. The insurance contribution for the main pension of young scientists - the future of our country - for the period up to the fifth year of their insurance is reduced from 19% to 13%, improving the current scheme of deductions. In this context, the overall relief for self-employed persons by 2019 will be over EUR 1.7 billion. Only by such concrete and tangible measures will free professionals be able to maintain their business, but also to dare investment, of course, in connection with other financial instruments that are expected to work. Young scientists will also be able to become active in the labour market and not to leave our country. However, this draft law is not limited to reductions in insurance contributions. It also includes a number of positive measures relating to employment and insurance. One of these is that workers are entitled, for the first time, to stand as political plaintiffs in criminal proceedings against employers on the grounds of non-payment of their wages or redundancies due. The workers, in other words, who are directly affected by the employer's illegal conduct, will be able to attend the proceedings with a lawyer and exercise all the rights conferred by the procedure on the parties to the proceedings. The Labour Inspectorate is institutionally and organisationally strengthened by the establishment of new departments and the establishment of an integrated legal framework for the protection of labour inspectors. We are all aware of the work done by labour inspectors, particularly undeclared work, etc. This is how the APR is upgraded, as a key institutional mechanism for intervention in the labour market and for improving labour relations, in order to create as high a quality of work as possible. In addition, inspectors are shielded in the performance of their duties in relation to attacks during their audit work and there is provision for an operational system of legal representation in the event of a judicial dispute, which arises again in the performance of their duties. I would also like to refer to Article 35 on meeting the needs of sixty-nine public institutions and, above all, social welfare centres, with the recruitment of three hundred forty-one permanent staff through AEPI. Of course, we do not appoint our 'our own children', as it is said, but I think we cover the needs that these institutions have. We know very well who is in these institutions and therefore how necessary it is to meet the needs of these institutions. At the same time, until the jobs have been filled, there will be an extension of the three hundred forty-forty to a person who is currently serving and their experience will be exploited by a great moleculation. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendment on the abolition of the trade fee for farmers - members of cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives, social enterprises and inactive businesses. In other words, the obligation to pay a trade fee of EUR 500 for social cooperatives and for workers' cooperatives is abolished. You realise that for us it is very important to develop the social economy sector, the third sector, and that is why we are making such a provision. Agricultural cooperatives, school cooperatives, social and solidarity economic operators, in the form of social cooperatives or workers' cooperatives, are also excluded - yet another element that our government has brought it through legislation - as well as companies of whatever legal form they are in liquidation, bankruptcy or inaction. Ladies and gentlemen, these are measures - and I conclude with this - which aim to support these businesses in providing tax incentives for integration into cooperative forms of activity, for the creation of these cooperative enterprises, but at the same time to exempt from tax burden natural and legal persons or entities no longer engaged in business. Finally, we think that the abolition of the trade fee for farmers - members of cooperatives is very important, because that is how cooperatives are promoted, not as a left ideology, as many of the opposition are afflicting us, but because in all Western societies co-operation is, in general, the solution to large multinationals. The survival of small and medium-sized farmers is therefore linked to the existence and proper functioning of the cooperatives. We are therefore moving on in this direction, in fact, to follow up the first law of 2016 on cooperatives. At the moment we are giving this opportunity to develop the partnership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u265	The next speaker is Mr Vlachos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my intervention from what the Minister said earlier. You know, I interrupted him at that time, because I didn't like the style when he said "The elements that give us...". All of us, some people give us something. That's life. We don't all know it all. So what did we say? We said that in the new jobs 62.05% is parttime. These are elements of the 'ERGAN'. We said that for the month of October - that is what colleagues say - I would not say, because you caused this debate - we have a negative record of twenty-thousand lost jobs. Because, in fact, the Prime Minister said earlier that something is happening in October, something is raining, something is snowing, so I will talk about last October. So last year, it was less than ninety - eight thousand jobs. I would also like to refer to the October last year, where it was less than eighty-two thousand lost jobs. This year is a hundred twenty thousand. That is the increase we have made. And you tell us about the evidence we have. We shall read the details of the ‘ERGAN’. If we're wrong somewhere, then tell us exactly what the mistake is, to come to an understanding, because we're probably talking about different things. So this study was not needed for intervention and for correction. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget for 2019 has been submitted these days, which, in our opinion, is a parade of the deadlock in which the country is located. Why is the country in a dead end financially? Because, indeed, this budget, which prescribes the financial figures for next year, does not seem to have any serious prospects. We see on the side of the government that there are celebrations that the country came out of the memorials, etc., but you forget that this agreement that began in 2015 ended in August was completed. You also forget that this agreement, i.e. the third memorandum, was made so that the country could, in the meantime, come out of the market. Today that you come to this Step and share promises, you make promises to finance, celebrate, carry a climate of euphoria, I would like to tell you that the country has not so far come to the markets. I wish it would come out! The hope of all of us is to come out! Alone if it doesn't come out! But does it not go a little further into your mind that some difficulty can arise? So, with such ease, you're going through this picture in the world? In other words, you do not respect the anguish of our fellow citizens who really see the hardships, because they see them as difficult, because they live. They also see our fellow citizens that the country has not just returned to normality, which, as I said, was the goal of the third memorandum, but they see poverty policies continuing, budgetary targets remain high, public property being committed for a century. We see that the debts of the citizens to taxi and the insurance funds are constantly growing. We see that the overdue public debts and these are increasing. And we see the Public Investment Programme constantly being curtailed. These are the elements that identify this cruel reality, which I spoke about earlier. And this harsh reality - no matter what you say, no matter what we say - the citizens live and they will judge us. You know, it's not true in words. Anyone can claim what they want. You bring this bill. Again and in this we have seen celebrations, happiness, all good. And of course, you do not feel a little uncomfortable using opposite arguments to what you were saying two and a half years ago. Two and a half years ago you came here again, in the same euphoria climate, you said that insurance justice, the single contribution system and all that would solve every problem with the insurance system. And after two and a half years you come with the same ease and say exactly the opposite, that fortunately they are falling, which we told you at the time, that this level of insurance contributions does not lead anywhere. And of course, you knew that there is a reduction in insurance contributions in the New Democracy's programmes. Of course, today, despite the 33.35% reduction - we want to be honest - we say that it is still high and even high in categories of free professionals and scientists. Also from 1-1-2019, as has already been mentioned, the reduction of the insured income is abolished by 15%, so the reduction is shrinking even further. The method of calculating the pension is therefore changed, so that the beneficiaries of the reduction have at the same time a similar reduction of 33.33% of their main pension. Obviously, we are creating the unprecedented, to have two categories of pensioners: those who have suffered the cuts and those who have not suffered them. The Prime Minister said earlier that Mr. Mitsotakis did not come to Parliament. First of all, I do not know if there was any understanding, because we see in the last few times the Prime Minister looking for an opportunity to come and say some pleasant things and go. We knew - at least I as an old parliamentarian - that the Prime Minister's presence is obviously important and is in consultation with the Bureau of Parliament and with the parties. I don't know if that was the case. However, if we go to the point of order rather than to the point of order, I would say that Mr Mitsotakis would come and do what exactly? 'Let us hold a dialogue' one colleague said earlier. But what dialogue? I told you today that you came here and said exactly the opposite of what you said two and a half years ago. What dialogue? Where can we watch you? Where's the beginning and where's the end? And, of course, we cannot enter this micro-party logic of yours, which, of course, this bill does not think will serve your electoral objectives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end with that, Mr President. I hear there have been cuts from the previous government, from the previous governments. What do you want to say now how many cuts were made earlier and how many were made by your own government to get even? Is that what we're talking about? Well, forget that when cuts have been made in the past and this government comes in and fails to withdraw these cuts and not only does it fail, but it also makes new cuts for the same reason, essentially politically covers the previous cuts. Is it so hard to understand that? If you come and 20% do 25%, you politically charge 25% rather than 5%. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Vlao, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u268	We, of course, as has been said by our rapporteur, will vote for this improvement and any other improvement you bring, which favours the difficult everyday life of our fellow citizens, in order to breathe. Of course, we believe that with a different policy, with a different political agenda, with a different hierarchy, things can go better. This, obviously, is the New Democracy's hope to the citizens for the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Vettas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam and Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 an insurance scheme was received that was severely hit by structured bonds, was severely hit by the PSI, was severely hit by the untreated assets of the insurance funds, was severely hit by the lifting of the APR. And this is a response above all to loved entrepreneurship: the APR is not just a mechanism to protect workers' rights, it is also a body - a mechanism to protect healthy entrepreneurship competition. Anyone who did not protect the APRD was a fan of unfair competition. Undeclared work is not, you know, a bad feature of work, it is also a bad feature of entrepreneurship. In 2015, however, we received other things. We received deficit funds, received nine hundred thirty ways - listen - listen! - the granting of a pension to a country with 10 million inhabitants. To say things by their name, a man in crisis who had a shop in Larissa, Volos, Carditsa, in Athens, paid twenty years of open shop up to 5,400 euros a year. Listen to a reasoning: The New Democracy Government for twenty-five, twenty-six or thirty months - or while it was in the government - has been able to charge this professional with EUR 13 000 to 14 000. Anyone who is listening at this moment to know that from his total debt, the 13 000 to 14 000 owes them to the analgesic or, if you like, to that Samara - Venizelos government's inability to take action. What would happen today if that policy continued? Let me tell you that the average debt of a trader - because that is the word - professional shopkeeper in 2014 was EUR 35 000 to EUR 40,000. These were built from 2009 onwards. I'm not talking about bastards, I'm not talking about debts and debts before the crisis. I'm talking about the time of crisis. If we did not implement the major reform, ladies and gentlemen - I think 850 is stable, multiply the two months and add the surcharges and the fines - if we did not then, in 2016, pass on the reform of the insurance system, today a dealer, a man who has a shop, would owe an average of 60,000 to 70,000 euros. So we passed in 2016 in the first phase of the insurance reform, which I call it 'insurance justice': you pay in proportion to your income. I want to make a reference to George Karugalos, who has implemented this government commitment, this government strategy at a time very difficult for the country both politically and budgetaryly. At that time the reform was structural and so is with structural reforms, there are problems, deficits, excesses. Now I'm going to phase two. It is the stage of removing the injustices and building the new insurance system. I know that it is very difficult for a country to go through within two - three months of these harsh monumental coercives and commitments to labour protection policies, to sustainable development policies for its insurance, management of its property. It's very important what we do. I don't want to get into this bill myself. I will not go into any reductions at all. I will just say that the reduction in insurance contributions is money in the world's pocket. These 400 to 3,000 -- and more maybe reductions -- are 400 to 3,000 per year in the pocket mainly of social professional groups, which have been most affected by all this time. But I'm going to stand in two parts of the bill. It's two different positions, so I'd like to compare them. The right of a worker today to take his lawyer, to go to a court where he is affected by illegal actions by his employer and to claim his right to be in force for the first time. For the first time! Of course, the AAR mentioned before that it is not only about the work itself, it is also about the operation. It is institutionally shielded, organised, increased and populationed and I think it will be an important tool for the further sustainable development and a fair development of this country. We found in 2014, for anyone who remembers, as a criminal offense the debt to the insurance funds. Criminal offense! It wasn't a matter of state. It was New Democracy and PASOK at the time, it was Mr. Samaras and Mr. Venizelos at the time. A criminal offense to a man’s weakness because some have cut wages and pensions. To destroy his case, not to be able to pay and not to be a matter of state protection, to be a matter for the prosecutor. So these people have done absolutely nothing. We abducted that criminal offense as soon as we got out of the government. We gave health and care to thousands of my colleagues, professionals. Who forgot that? Count them as you like, in millions and billions. We gave thousands of people the opportunity for him and his child to go to hospitals. This has been done for one main reason. For we have accepted that all this debt was the result of a crisis created by the PASOK and New Democracy governments, not since 2009, but over the last forty years. I'm running my word a little, I'm not going to stand in the bill anymore. A few days ago, the Ministry of Labour made a very important intervention. There was a delay of twenty-six years. Well, twenty-six years, didn't anyone see the double insurance? A man had IKA, for example, was hired. Suddenly he did a job, opened up a block. Start of trade. He was never notified. So one Friday morning, a billet written "coloured 30 euros" appeared. That's how it was. Ask your places, the amounts were ten, twenty, thirty thousand euros. If he hadn't had a stroke, he'd go to see what's going on in IKA. That was the behavior of the world. And a few days ago, I think, a ministerial decision was signed or, anyway, a provision which lifts this injustice. Twenty-six years have taken it to remove this injustice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Vetta, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u272	I will end in a minute, Mr President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u273	Not a minute. You're already talking more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u274	Wait a minute. Collective agreements: important to us. Immediately the next day, after the exit, we extended ten collective agreements. One hundred and ninety thousand people get a bigger share. What did I hear a moment ago here? I have heard Mr Aygeakis say that this intervention promotes employers to fire these people and to hire others with lower qualifications. I don't think I heard it all. What was intriguing to the employers? Who told him his employers look like one? Who told him that Greek businessmen, who have viable businesses, want to look like Mr. Augariani? And I close, Mr President, by saying this. I wanted to say to Mr Tindemans a word about Alexandria, because it has been heard that we are losing Alexandria. I want to tell him that Alexandrias aren't for everyone. Alexandrias are for dreamers, for fighters, for sensitive people. And if I could compare a poem - usually poems have no reason to confront -, I would say this to him, which are three lines from a poem by Manolis Anagnostakis: "Now you are simply viewers, insignificant policies within the crowd and no one can applaud you anymore." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u275	The Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr. Theano Fotou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, today I hear from all the wings - and this is really the surprise - how good the former pension system was. But everyone knows it was not sustainable. It was a deficit and it collapsed with the crisis. Of course, New Democracy and PASOK know very well that they did not pay pensions not only from incapacity but also from a lack of money. One billion percent of the deficit after twelve cuts and a 40% reduction in pensions. That's why you inherited four hundred thousand pension benefits, which were unpaid, and today we've reached them to forty thousand, as you all know, within three years. You have all forgotten, but also the JRC, that the free traders, farmers and scientists have ceased to pay their insurance contributions within the crisis and have been uninsured and unhealthy - who does not know that? - and that they once again started paying for their contributions and having health and insurance cover with the "patient" Katorugalou law. Finally, you can't say the same thing. With today's bill, among other things, with the announcement of 340 permanent staff posts and procedures, we support 69 public institutions that provide care to children, the elderly and the disabled. They are these institutions which have been deprived by the 'five to one' rule and which we have changed to 'one to one' rule, namely a withdrawal - an intake. But Mr. Mitsotakis promised Thessaloniki that when he came in his kingdom he would restore the rule "five to one". The existing AS staff of the sixty-nine institutions will receive a high moleculosis and at the same time ensure their work by the end of 2019. It was a promise we made. With today’s bill, we extend the hundreds of fifty - three thousand daily hot meals except for primary school children and children of the evening high school and high school. But today Mr Brutsis referred to social transfers and poverty rates in Greece. Yesterday we tabled the first Memorandum of Understanding in Parliament without austerity measures and with increased social costs in 2019. Increased social costs relate to social transfers. Social transfers, to come to an understanding, are money you give for welfare, social benefits, to deal with poverty. You call them'sexuality' and 'pre-election benefits'. Mr. Brutsi, I told the committees too, but the truth is not of interest to you. In 2014 with a Samara government, the average for Greece's social transfers to Europe is less than 19.1 points. In 2017 the difference is 16.6 points. What do you invoke? I don't understand. You mean he fell with us poverty? It's obvious. Indeed, 36% in 2014, three million eighty-four thousand citizens at risk of poverty, 34.8% in 2017, namely three million seven hundred thousand citizens. We don't triumph, but they're two thousand less civilians. But you have forgotten something else: Our country has had the highest rates of poverty and child poverty and in the years of prosperity. A crisis, in 2008, 28.1%, i.e. more than one out of four citizens, was poor. In other words, more than one out of four citizens was poor. That growth you've achieved. She's the one you want to repeat. Development, unfortunately, does not mean alleviating inequalities from the outset, it does not mean that if you have growth, you have a reduction in inequalities. If you apply neoliberal policies, it often means exacerbating inequalities, that is, policies that favour few and not many. That just means growth and poverty at 28.1% I told you before. However, as you read the data from EUROSTAT, Mr Brutsi, - in fact as you do not read them - you did not notice that we have 24.5% of child poverty in 2017 when Spain has 28.3% and Italy 26.4%. How do you interpret that? This is because the social welfare model of the southern countries, Spain, Italy, Portugal and we, to date - that is, with you before - had common features: small social transfers. That is why we have related indicators, poverty, child poverty, unemployment and parallel indicators, the demographic problem. That is the model of the countries of the South, and that is what we are changing. It is a model of poor in services, without horizontal benefits that favours customer relations and corruption, which all leaves them in the family. Family to save, because state doesn't exist. It's a model of antiproductive, uninvesting, anti-developmental. That is what you have implemented to date. That's what you want to do again. Why do you not listen to the North Europeans saying that every euro at social costs has a positive growth factor, namely returning to growth of EUR 1.3 or EUR 1.6. For every 1 euro, it turns you 1,3 euros or 1,6 euros, i.e. it's an investment. Ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to reverse the path of social disintegration. Firstly, we have spent for the first time since the start of the crisis of EUR 1.6 billion on poverty, when you had not given for five years a euro for poverty and extreme poverty. Not a single euro! Secondly, poverty rates today are lower than those that existed in 2008, before prosperous. Why am I saying this, after I said that for child poverty, ELSTAT says it's 24.5%? Because when ELSTAT says and EUROSTAT “2017” means incomes of 2016. So, what we have achieved, we have only achieved with the measures of 2015 and 2016. When they enter 2017 and 2018, the CRL etc. And all the other policies we have done, we will fall and you will see that this year we have under the percentages of poverty and child poverty, from the days of the most prosperous prosperity and growth. Finally, we have more than doubled all the budgets that we received for welfare. Why have we managed to reduce poverty and child poverty? For we have increased the money for the child and with the policies we have had in a terrible three-year period, that is, from EUR 800 million that we received, we have reached EUR 1.3 billion. In other words, we have given more than EUR 500 million. We are now moving on to a change in the predictive model. It becomes digital so that customer relations and all other phenomena, such as corruption, etc. can be stopped. We are also doing ten contagious actions for the child: Firstly, by 2020 we extend all school meals to all primary schools in the country. We currently have the lowest percentage in Europe in school leakage. Is that what we're interested in? It's 6%. Precisely, school meals helped greatly in this. So we expand 190 million for six hundred thousand children. All primary school kids will eat for free. Second, all the kids at the nursery stations. Free voucher for a hundred and fifty thousand children, worth 280 million. Thirdly, a grant of 600 million for six hundred thousand families for a housing subsidy. In other words, it will start in 2019 to 400 million for three hundred thousand families. Fourth, child allowance. We put 400 million more than 650. Result? The child’s allowance today comes from a million four hundred and fifty thousand children, a million five hundred and fifty thousand children this year. This means horizontal policies and immediately the population embraces them. Fifth, regarding the CRL, 760 million for six hundred and thirty thousand of our fellow citizens. Of them, sixty thousand three hundred sixty two are children. Sixth, Roma integration into society and work. I'm only telling you the titles. Seventh, law - shield for unaccompanied refugees. Eighth, camps for all. We're setting up camps for all the children. Ninth, law on assumption and adoption. No children in the foundations. The platform will open in December. Tenth, pilot program of dismantling. We are doing all of this with great reforms and inventions which the European Union embraces, for example the solidarity card. What the European Union will give with what we, with dignity, have done to all its citizens and not to packages. Eliminate the forty-eight and electronic disability file, completely new throughout Europe. We are moving forward to new policies for the whole population and we are here until October to see what the Greek people appreciate and what they do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u277	Mrs. Gennaia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, three years later we are on a completely different point. We managed to create and have a country that has definitively closed the circle of memoranda after the clean exit. We are a country that can itself formulate its policies, which can set its priorities freely. This is due to the efforts and vision of the Left and our Government, who believed and fought for this exit. What did he fight from? From the suffocating size of the Memorandum Committee, which was inherited by previous governments and their convicted policies. It is also due to all those who made the greatest sacrifices during the crisis. To those who lifted many burdens that most often did not account for them. So to all of these, the Prime Minister himself, addressing the IGC's step two months ago, with a sense of responsibility and full consciousness, stated that he made concrete and clear commitments about how each citizen will be able to feel in everyday life what exactly the end of the memorandum means. These very specific commitments are now being implemented through relief measures, support for the social majority. This moral obligation, because that is how we feel about it, we do day by day. So such a commitment is also the bill we are debating today, a bill that follows on from the amendment adopted a few days ago on the return of retroactives to special wages. This bill provides for reductions in insurance contributions for self-employed, young scientists, doctors, lawyers, farmers and engineers. They introduce favourable arrangements and correct some of the injustices. The first part includes basic provisions relating to reductions in insurance contributions to the main and secondary pensions sector, provided for by 1-1-2019. The percentage of the monthly insurance contribution is reduced from 20% to 13.3%. Already, since the application of the Katorugalou law, although it has received adverse criticism, the figures show that from 1-1-2017 1.25 million non-wagers pay smaller contributions. In 2016, with the old scheme, only 27 % of the self-employed paid a monthly insurance contribution of less than EUR 200. What about 2018? 88% of self-employed persons pay a monthly insurance contribution of less than EUR 200. Today, with the current bill, the contributions of L.4347/2016 are reduced for more than 250,000 self-employed. In addition, favourable regulations are introduced for young scientists under the age of five. A reduction also occurs in farmers' insurance contributions. I would also like to focus on the regulation of Article 23, which is coming to regulate a legal basis that made criminal prosecution against the employer for not paying tied fruit. Such unfair treatment for workers ends as the right to a statement of political treatment is introduced to workers who are due and earned wages and the anticipated redundancy compensation. This regulation is of great value to millions of workers in practice. In addition, the possibility of free movement of unemployed persons is provided. So this bill is, in fact, the implementation of the number two of the Prime Minister's commitment to PPC, and it is another vote of an overall project that has essentially a visionary character for the memorandum Greece, an overall development plan for the country in three pillars: recovery of labour, strengthening the social state, deepening democracy. During the debate of the bill in committee, we received a positive message from Brussels for the approval of the Greek budget without even any comments, which confirms the definitive exit, the positive course of the Greek economy and the extremely successful handling of the government and, of course, it is a proof that we have the budgetary margin to pursue our own budgetary, economic and social policy, just as we promised the Greek people. The budget, which was tabled yesterday, is the first memorial budget without adverse measures and with significant reductions. So we move firmly on to the next steps: Eliminate the impairment of pensions, reduce the HISA, reduce the contributions for workers under 24, seven and a half thousand recruitments in special education and in the 'Help at Home' programme, increase the minimum wage. Even with our proposal for the Revision of the Constitution, the deepening of social rights and strengthening the social state are in our main concerns, they go first. It ensures that social rights are shielded at work, health, welfare and social security, that workers are protected from discrimination on the grounds of age, that collective agreements are guaranteed. Because, gentlemen of counterpopulation, we don't care about chairs. We came to offer work and service to the many and weak. Why we are not burdened with corruption, state devastation, SIEMENS persecution, NOVARTIS, armaments, because we do not carry out impulses, but planned and well-designed acts, because our aim is to hand over to our children a better country than the one you delivered to us, because that is why we committed ourselves to the Greek people, that is what we are implementing, because very simply what is fair will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u279	Mr Ursouzidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, no doubt August 2018 sets a new period for the country. On the occasion of this fact, then, it would be nice to remember what the previous periods were and we arrived here when we arrived in May 2015. From 1974 to May 2010, the country passed a period of, for many, artificial prosperity, a period of dismantling public money and complexity. There are some people in the process of this period, but the reality is undeniably that the country has reached bankruptcy after the alternative management of power from PASOK and New Democracy. The dominant figure of this period is the longest-lived Prime Minister. I am referring clearly to political responsibility, which bears the stamp of Kostas Simitis. The second period, between May 2010 and May 2010, when the Memorandum enters our lives, until 2018, is a period that brought citizens against unprecedented situations, many in absolute poverty, impoverishment and despair. It brings the entire seal of the government of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos, of the guilty ones, of the worst twin power the country has ever known at all levels, on all issues, national and non-national. I remind you what the Prime Minister's position was at that time on the matter with the northern neighbour and what the position of the Minister of Foreign Affairs was. It is well known that whoever runs on two boats - as the Greek people wisely say - is predetermined. The third period begins in August 2018, the so-called "memorandum period", which bears the full stamp of our Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras. It starts optimisticly for the country, with relief measures absolutely necessary for the people who have been diagnosed, who suffered in the eight years 2010-2018. In the case of a bill, no one submits that a reduction in insurance contributions in itself will solve the problem of insurance. But there is one reality that we need to see. When insurance contributions were reduced for all the free professionals - I mean 80% - to the minimum of EUR 167.5 from 500 and 550 euros paid this month, people breathed, adjusted the debts paid by the believers in the “we have eaten them” doctrine and managed to respond. So from the budget deficit for the current year of 250 million, we have reached a surplus of over 1 billion in the ECA. This was the first basic condition for the non-reduction of pensions, without overruns in public works. I would remind you that only for three projects, according to the Court of Auditors' report, E65-Ionian Road - Olympia, overruns amounted to EUR 1,200,000. To better understand it, the work of the new hospital in Komotini is 55 million. So, it's like we only paid twenty hospitals for three projects over a few years. All these projects - I remind you - had to be received in 2012 and received in 2017. So these were the two main prerequisites, as well as respect for the hardship of Greek citizens. That was our success. Now, because the Greek people responded: because, at last, they believed in a government that can be defeated by the state of pimps. This is a reality that is also credited to this government, which for four years has not shown a casting of economic scandals, as we have experienced in previous years. So this is what the Greek taxpayer will have in mind when he is asked to vote - whenever he is called to vote - for the next governance of the country. We note, however, that the Greek people feel that you are condemning the government for the measures it is going to take on the other hand. The position of Mr Mitsotakis' advisers on the issue of non-cutting or reduction of pensions is well known. On the other hand, while you claim that the country's finances are not well, tomorrow you will come here and vote for the non-reduction of pensions. You have kept all these years on the two lists - the Lagard list and the Borans list - in drawers, setting the question of their insolvency, that they cannot be exploited. These lists, however, brought more than EUR 1 billion into the Greek public, and these lists became the reason for the property of people who did not respect the Greek people and today some of them being in prison. That is the reality and that is why the Greek people have trusted us. So the doctrine, together, "we have eaten them and therefore together we have to pay them" prevailed in politics. And the great drama is that you have continued in the years of the memorials to behave in the same way. Intact with the country's economic environment, you passed laws and literally laid all free professionals on the wall. This has had to change undeniably and that requirement should be created so that today we can talk about a reduction in insurance contributions, which was in this part of 15 000 and above the weak point in the bill that we voted in favour of, the well-known Katrugalos law. That comes to be cured by the government. We spotted it in time. Unfortunately, the lenders insisted. However, under certain circumstances and under the Greek people's response, this is now possible. Finally, I would like to say that I find you last very much in favour of unilateral actions. You have denounced us when we voted on the 13th pension, that it is a unilateral energy. Tomorrow you will say that, yes, we are voting on it, as will you vote on all the positive measures that are coming. The period can therefore be described as an optimistic period for the country, and you are obliged to vote on everything that you denounced at the expense of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Pratsol has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, it concerns the reduction of insurance contributions for professionals, self-employed and farmers, 250,000 people are being helped. And what is the reaction, which we have been following today all day, of the major and minor opposition? I would say that it is awkward, panic, but also a concern about the lost account of the destruction of the economy and, more generally, of the country. One of the key commitments of the Prime Minister in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki for 2019 is to be implemented. This is a flagrant legislative initiative by the Government, as along with the other measures included in the budget already submitted, delineates the gradual degressivity of the painful effects of the long-term crisis and the protection of social cohesion, leaving behind the catastrophe that the opposition has been cultivating for some time, investing in the reduction of pensions and economic catastrophe. We will all remember Mr Hatzidakis' position in the Senate on the visit of Moskovsi to Greece. Unfortunately, measures are coming for them that will literally lose their sleep. In particular, the provisions of the draft law provide, inter alia, for the following: The share of the monthly insurance contribution for the main part of the pension insurance of former OSH and the former EAFRD is reduced from 1-1-2019 to 13.33%, as against 20% currently in force. The percentage of the monthly insurance contribution for the main pension sector paid by the persons in the former EAFRD and the self-employed high-education schools registered in the scientific associations or chambers shall be 13,33% from 01/01/2019 during the first five years following their entry into insurance. The monthly insurance contribution for insured persons insured as self-employed in the former GAAP is also reduced from 1-1-2019. Specifically, 12% from 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019, 12.67% from 1-1-2020 to 31-12-2020, 13% from 1-1-2021 to 31-12-2021, 13.33% from 1-1-2022 to 31-12-2022. The corresponding figures are 18%, 19%, 19.5% and 20%, Article 3. The basis for calculating the monthly contribution of self-employed and self-employed professionals who are insured before and after 1-1 1993 in the EIF's supplementary pension scheme is redefined and is calculated by a percentage of the minimum basic salary of a single employee over twenty-fifths - the phrase'more than twenty-fifths' leaves after the legislative improvement - instead of the current allowance. In addition, those who have acquired fictitious insurance with the former scheme, without taking advantage of this time of a change in the legislative framework, may be subject to the provisions of Law No.4387/2016, by paying the difference to increase their pension earnings. An application from many mayors, but also from other categories, is met - I will speak about mayors, because we have been in contact with them many times - who had been on board for four years and have bought this year's supplementary allowance in eight years. With a mistake, I would say, interpretation of the law, most have received an ancillary allowance for ten to fifteen years. By the correct interpretation, these amounts had to be repaid unduly. Today, then, the law comes and corrects this injustice, I would say - because you cannot collect money that has been paid many years ago by some people - and abolishes this refund. I think it is a fair treatment to all these people, who are - at least as far as I know - around the hundreds of seventy. These are mayors who had been members of parliament, as well as other categories of insured persons. In simple terms, for free professionals, self-employed and farmers, the main pension contribution is reduced by 33% from 1-1-2019, while maintaining the minimum contribution. Also, for scientists, doctors, lawyers, engineers, the contribution for subsidiary and one-off decreases retrospectively from 1-1-2017 to a minimum of 64,5 euros. In addition, with the insurance reform adopted in 2016, 88% - and we must stress this against what is called - the free traders instead of EUR 450 to EUR 550, who were paying old, now pay EUR 167. And this is a basic regulation of the Katorugalou law, which has so much been obscured. Ladies and gentlemen, rationalising all these improvements is important. Together, with the other initiatives of the Ministry of Labour concerning the reopening of collective agreements, its basic principles, the process of increasing the minimum wage and the abolition of the 'progression measure', which is the subordinate wage, as if the workers under twenty-fifths must have half a life - those who are today shed crocodile tears for Brain drain, which is really hypocrisy - are a package of measures to bring back a network of protecting workers' rights and which is a precondition for strengthening their income. This is a central government priority for fair and sustainable development in the country after the Memorandums. Because exiting from the memoranda is not a slogan, but a substantial change in the relationship between the citizen and the social state. And that should be put right in their minds by everyone who thinks we're not out of the memoirs. I will obviously not fail to mention the hot issue of the non-reduction of pensions for months now of the public debate. We have also watched a campaign of terror from Opposition and many media about the threatened reductions. They systematically maintained the climate of fear and insecurity of retired people and were disproved once again at a celebrity. This government has taken the country out of the memoranda and now has the opportunity to move on to fiscal expansion measures, to make positive social interventions aimed at a better and fairer country, whether or not it likes it. Because, as the poet Nazim Hickmet says, "The most beautiful days we haven't lived them yet." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u283	The next speaker is Mr Kaisha from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I did not live seventy-two years in this country, listening to the MPs and some ministers of the New Democracy and Anti-Population, I would think that it was SYRIZA's fault for all of the evils. The evil demon for the country is SYRIZA! Today we hear SYRIZA put us in the memoirs. This outrageous for ordinary people was heard by this Step. The bad guy SYRIZA went bankrupt. SYRIZA did all that we're talking about now about insurance, SYRIZA is the fault of workers being made redundant. Also, all that has been done so far in this country, SYRIZA has done so. Why am I saying it? We don't know he didn't do it? Of course we do. Why are they helping them with the media and a year now they're always saying that pensions will be cut? And it's time, and pensions aren't cut. They know what they're saying is a lie. They know that it does not respond to the reality that common sense does not fit that. So what's the aim? The aim is not to have hopes for this people, not even for SYRIZA. "SYRIZA..." - they said - "...is like us." That's how they started. Now they say: “It is worse than us. Will you believe in him?’ And the more things go, the more they don't get out. Why? We heard the pensions won't be cut. So, what do they say now? What they've been saying for a year and the world was afraid of its pensions, it's not gonna happen. And not only will they not be cut off, but we will also increase. So, if they change patterns of conversation, what should they say? How much the pensions will get up, how much better things will get. So, people are talking. That's their target. That's how they'll go, with the only difference, of course, that the world's been scented, they're scented. It's not the first time that things have been loaded to others. But we will continue our work. I come to the bill that says we are reducing insurance contributions for professionals, the self-employed and the farmers. It is a measure involving two hundred and fifty thousand people - it is not a trivial number - that reduces from 20% to 13.3% and for farmers from 18% to 12%. There is one question: why is this reduction being made? This reduction is because it was too much for these people to make. We have pointed this out from the outset. We couldn't, of course, predict that things would go so well. And it's not too late, it's just a year since 2017 -- it was implemented on 1 January 2017 -- and the insurance system was surplus from the first year. So you are giving us this injustice and the difference that we have mentioned, to correct it. And we fix it. I would like to say that a self-employed person pays both parties, that is, he's both a worker and a boss. So 20% is on both sides. It's not just from one side. That is why the sums of EUR 40,000 and EUR 50,000 a month paid huge premiums, paid EUR 8 000 and EUR 10,000 a year. We are therefore correcting this. At the hearing of the institutions, where there were nineteen bodies, we heard from the seventeen that this measure is positive. We have heard from two bodies - and I would like to make it public - from the representative of the WTO - that we know this representative of the WTO roaming - and from the spokesman of the new PESEN that they will abolish the Katorugalou law. Of course the evil is not with them, the evil is that the opposition is saying that it will abolish the Katorugalou law. And the KINAL.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u285	The same day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u286	And ahead of you, you were talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u287	With an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u288	If they come to the government - with their dreams, in any case - they remain in place. What they're not telling us is what they're gonna bring. Because before, they tried too many times to fix the insurance. I'll report to you the laws. I don't remember the numbers, the ministers, but I remember them. Law of Loverdus, law of Siufa, law of Reppa. Yannitsi's failed bill. What were all these laws? What were the results of all these laws? To reduce the pensions of insured persons by 40% in accordance with the laws of 1911 and 12 and two million or more to remain uninsured and cannot meet their obligations. Of course he couldn't move that system forward, why? Because it had nothing to do with income. People couldn't pay their contributions. Why? Because even the measure they had taken was depending on the squares that your office has, with that you should be taxed. Big medical office, lots of squares, lots of taxes. Small medical office, fewer taxes. What now has the income to do with the doctor's squares, only you could find it, no one else. Our insurance policy has three principles. Firstly, contributions are based on income. Secondly, a basic national pension is introduced which will be for everyone. And thirdly, the reward part to be added to this pension. I think it's a solution. We're not satisfied and we're not saying we made the perfect insurance system. There's a lot of imperfections, there's other injustices, here we are, we'll see, but the water's in the groove. This is the insurance system that has a perspective, because the proportional study says that by 2070 it is sustainable. Thank you very much and I invite you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u289	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, let me make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-three students and students and four educational sessions from the General School of Kalambakas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Katsafandos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will excuse me, because I will try to spoil the festivities you have been trying to set up in the last few hours, both with the Prime Minister's position a few hours ago, but also a few hours ago with the budget deposited, which you are doing. This is because, even in this budget, the last budget submitted to Parliament by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - because, to be honest, there is no one in this Chamber who really believes that SYRIZA will win in the next elections, but outside this Chamber there are none - there are two things, hypocrisy and taxes. So you have brought a budget which actually turns into a number of points, and at the expense of the citizens, what you yourself had tabled a few months ago in the preliminary draft. Because you may want to convince the Greeks that the budget contains only positive measures, which only correct your own mistakes, but there are some details that you are hiding them. And unfortunately these are more taxes and less social benefits than you yourself committed to the Greek people in July. And to be clear, because we have heard too many numbers from the previous Minister, Mrs Fotio, who told us that there were four hundred thousand thousands of pensions, I think we have lost the sense of measure here. Greece has ten million inhabitants, Mrs. Fotou. You said that four hundred thousand pensions were on the ice in New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u291	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u292	That's what you said. When you get the minutes, you'll see. You also say you pay allowances to a million and a half children. At some point we will think that Greece does not have ten million inhabitants, but that we are more than twenty million, with the figures you are all telling us. However, to be clear about what I want to say, tax revenues for 2018 were provided for in the state budget of EUR 50.17 billion and received EUR 51.26 billion. In other words, you have taken more than EUR 1.1 billion and it is what you are coming to share with us. It is the unfair taxes, the unfair over-taxation, which has hit the entire Greek society, and you now come, as a counter-duty, to return it back to some. Unfortunately, lying doesn't end here alone. And in 2019, 50,19 billion euros were foreseen, but the target is now up to 51,11 billion euros. In other words, in 2019 you intend to put more than EUR 920 million in taxes, which is almost a billion. But that is not what you are telling us, ladies and gentlemen. But there's something else you're hiding. Especially for social benefits, as you said, which will also be increased, in the medium term, you are planning 2,425 billion euros to be provided. Now, you tell us that you are giving 1.676 billion euros, which is 30% less, which is 800 million euros. This EUR 800 million, of course, is to go to pensions, which you under your law wanted to cut further, and now you celebrate that they are not cut off. So these are two basic lies, which you have tabled to the budget. You're trying to introduce the white as black again. However, we will see all this more thoroughly in the debate that will come about on the budget. Let us now come to the draft law which we are debating today, which concerns the reduction of insurance contributions. Acknowledgement first: You unfortunately need more than two and a half years to understand the obvious, what we called you from the first moment both us and the productive bodies and the insured, that the Katrugalou law simply does not come out, leads to a dead end, since neither insurer justice provides nor solves problems. On the other hand, its implementation has created much more. Several of what he had anticipated - and this proves to be - have already been annulled by judicial decisions. But you don't have the political courage to take all the law back. You don't have the courage to say you were wrong and ask for a big apology. But as you do for a large number of issues, so do you. On the one hand, you defend him and on the other, you salamize him, cut him into a piece. That's why the bill, which you bring to discuss, is just dismantling another mistake of yours. However, you do not now dare to bring about a brave arrangement, which would help hundreds of thousands of workers, free traders, who have gone to "execute" financially with the contributions you have imposed on them. It was unreasonable contributions. On the contrary, when you were told by all those who were told today that it was a little extreme that you had imposed, you were ironing and you were mocking them. And do you know what it was, ladies and gentlemen, the most prosperous thing you've ever done? You planned and planned to apply social automation at their expense, that is, to turn a part of society against this part of society. Do you want me to remind you what you were saying about the lawyers and the ties they were wearing when they were strikeing? Now were they right? Suddenly, did the lawyers get right? Did they get the ties? So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, when were you telling the truth? Then, when you described Katrugalo as a revolution for insurance and social law or today with the corrections you make? Unfortunately, however, the answer is that neither then nor now are you telling the truth. I quote a few simple facts again. In 2016 you imposed uniform and horizontal exterior contributions, which led to professionals being suffocated and suffocated. You have therefore achieved a reduction in the number of self-employed and self-employed professionals and their declared income with this exterior increase. So you destroyed the insured and created huge problems with the FBI. I am opening a parentheses here - it's the only insurance fund in the country. Once when we went to make the funds three and two, you were 'in the bars' in this Chamber and you blamed us. But you have united all the insurance funds in the country with great success. From 1 January 2019, the loss of an insured income is abolished by 15%, so the reduction that you are bringing in even now in a few days, unfortunately, will shrink in terms of its result. Despite the 33.35% reduction you have brought, the contributions remain very high for important categories of free professionals and scientists. According to Article 7 of the draft law, the method of calculating the pension is changed. What do you do with that? All the beneficiaries of the reduction have at the same time an equivalent reduction of 33.33% of their main pension. So whatever you give them by reducing contributions, you get it behind their pensions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm just gonna need a minute, Mr. President. I shall mention something about both the blocks and all these people who were running to close them by thousands and turned them into employees. All these thousands who believed you and were victims of this law, after the vote on today's law that we are discussing, will be under pressure from their workplace, as they will now be inconsistent because of the high non-wage costs compared to the rest. Ladies and gentlemen, we are telling you quite clearly: if you had the courage to abolish the Katorugalou law and opened a serious debate under the real problems of insurance in our country, we would have been present, we would have tried, we would have been here without any idea, because we believe that insurance is a huge problem, which is not only about today, but also about tomorrow in the country. Unfortunately, however, you, even this very big issue, are using it on pre-election terms and fireworks in communications. For this reason, we may vote for the reduction in insurance contributions, but we are firmly opposed to the logic that governs you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u293	The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is more than ten hours now that we are discussing in plenary the bill proposed by the Ministry of Labour for the reductions in the insurance contributions of the free professionals, the self-employed and the farmers. Most of the arguments have been heard from the side of the parliamentary majority and from the side of the opposition. I will try to sum up the main reasons why this bill, which I understand you will be voting in favour of, results in significant reductions for tens of thousands of people insured in that country, for tens of thousands of professionals, but also in response to the basic arguments I hear from the standpoint of counter-population. There's some objective data I think. As much as we want to make our different political assessments or not to accept any reality, because it may not be a good thing for our opposition account or party embodiment, there are some objective data, which I do not think anyone can ignore. I'd like to start with these. Yesterday the budget for 2019, the first Memorandum of Understanding. This budget proves three specific things: The first is that the cycle of budgetary adjustment, as has been well called the budget cuts in reality, has been definitively closed, because the budget for 2019 has no budgetary limitation, on the contrary it contains measures of an expansive total of EUR 910 million. So the first presumption, which one cannot ignore, is that we are now ending with the cycle of budgetary restrictions and going through measures that are expansive, that is, in fact, tax relief, tax relief for citizens and social expenditure on the part of the state to the citizens. That's the one given. The second presumption that the budget submitted yesterday confirms is that the exit from the memoranda was not a formal date. If it were a formal date and it meant nothing essential, then the 2019 budget would be the same - or about the same - as the 2018 budget. The great change is that now this exit after 21 August is translated into very specific policies that strengthen, improve the income of the country's citizens. The third presumption that the budget submitted is that the country has now recovered its economic sovereignty. The country, that is, the government and Parliament can plan and implement policies, vote for measures, annul unnecessarily measures to a regime of political freedom, that is, without direct coercion, the direct imposition that existed in the period of the memorandum. That is also a given one. These are, in my opinion, three elements which have an objective status, namely, however much one tries to color them differently, and one can only see them. Aside from the objective facts, however, there is a political commitment for us. The Prime Minister called it a memorial to the people. I would call this more a debt to society. Our duty to society is to make the exit from the memorandum, that is to say, to make this exit felt for the citizens with direct moves, to take immediate steps to improve their income. I believe that this debt is served by the bill we have in this House to reduce contributions to two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals, self-employed and farmers. This debt is served by the cancellation of the pension cut measure and the increases to be made to about six hundred thousand pensioners from 1-1-2019. This debt has been served by the reintroduction of collective labour agreements in the country since 21 August. This debt is being served by increasing the minimum wage to be paid in January 2019 and abolishing the so-called underprivileged wage for young people. It's a debt to society. This is our attitude to things. Faced with this attitude, the image of Anti-Civilization, especially the Anti-Civilization, is more a stand against reality at first instance. He refuses to accept that the circle of memoranda has been permanently closed. He refuses to see the objective data I described. He refuses to accept that an expansive budget has been tabled. And I wonder how one can deny things that are numbered. In other words, anyone who wants, can enter the site of Parliament and see the budget and see what we mean by an expansive budget, how social expenditure is strengthened, and how taxes and contributions are reduced. This is an expansive budget. They're numbers. He refuses to see that the country recovers its freedom and can cancel unnecessarily measures, even though this has now been confirmed by all sides. I am not very sure what this denial of reality serves. It may serve to rescue the opposition account that has been made several years ago in connection with a permanent collapse, a permanent disaster that will come to the country. I do not understand how this serves the reality, the lives of the social majority. There is a permanent denial, therefore, of reality and an investment of all their money in a disaster that never comes. We lived in the course of the negotiations on the request that ratings should not be closed, the first evaluation, the second evaluation. Refuse. We have experienced this on the grounds that the budget cut will be implemented. They've been disproved. We were told then that the debt would not be settled. The Greek debt was settled in the summer of 2018. They've been disproved. We were told we wouldn't get a clean exit. They've been disproved. We were told that pensions would be cut off, and that is exactly what confirms that we have no exit from the memoirs. They've been disproved. We were told that we would have a credit line and that we would not have a clean exit. They've been disproved. I don't understand what this investment serves in black, in destruction. I heard in the morning the rapporteur of the Officerial Response say, as a new bet on black, that we will not go out on the markets or that we will not get the returns from the SMPs and ANFAs or that the tax-free in 2020 will be reduced. You will be disobeyed in this, too. I don't understand what this bet serves in black and in destruction all the time. Today, then, we are discussing a bill that sees significant reductions for two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals, self-employed and farmers. It provides that by maintaining the lowest contribution, the minimum contribution, the premium for freelance professionals than 20% will be reduced to 13.3%. They will have a reduction of about 33% in the contributions they pay. The contribution of farmers will be reduced to 12% from 1 to 2019. The contribution for young scientists will also be reduced to 13.3%, improving the current system of discounts. For self-employed scientists, engineers and farmers the premium for supplementary pension and one-off will be calculated retrospectively from 1-1-2017 on the minimum calculation basis, i.e. at EUR 64 irrespective of income. From the point of view of Officerial Opposition what we have heard about this bill: It is still in the same pattern around a disaster, around a constant defeat in relation to what is really happening, and in this bill we are tabling. But I think this is perhaps a little more serious, more dangerous, and I will explain why. This argument concerning insurance is a step in the right direction towards undermining the public social security system. And this has been done in three ways by the Qualified Opposition: with what he has done while he has been a government, with the opposition rhetoric that he is developing in relation to what the present government does and its planning positions on what he will do, if at some point there is a government. And I would like to explain: In fact - several of the Members of the parliamentary majority have said so - after twelve horizontal reductions in pensions of up to 50% are handing over the insurance funds with a deficit of EUR 1,100,000 and with a total of about four hundred thousand pension benefits. I think it's a real negative miracle to have made so many cuts and deliver such deep deficits to the funds and so many unpaid pensions to the drawers. Therefore, firstly, it is the acts that lead to the undermining of the public social security system. Secondly, it is the opposition rhetoric. As long as the current government legislates an insurance reform and tries to set up the public social security system at its feet, it makes an investment in false evidence, that the free traders are being devastated from the contributions, that pensions are not paid, that the surplus of EFKA arises due to the cessation of payments and a number of false ones in fact. 88% of the free professionals pay less on the basis of the warnings that go to people - I will submit the information in the Minutes shortly - the surplus of the ECA is there and has mainly resulted from an increase in income for employees due to the decline in unemployment. We have not changed anything in the employee's contributions, while pensions are paid, they are heading towards their complete liquidation. The second is that they undermine the public social security system. Watch out, they're undermining the public social security system. It is not a question of government or not, it is that we have a public system that is constantly being undermined by false news. And the third one that comes to confirm perhaps why all this undermine is being made, we heard it mainly from Mr. Mitsotakis at the ICU when he described his plan for his own insurance. A Member of this House described it as a 'insurance Pinochet' and I think it was a good designation for the insurance if the New Democracy took place at some point. There very clearly described exactly what the plan is, subsidiary insurance to go through the current system - which is at the pillar of public security, control, supervision of the state under the public guarantee of the State - to private insurance companies and to transform the system into capitalising. This system poses the following main risks. Mr. Mandais called it creepy, and I think it's a very good character. In the Greek insurance system, today's contributions pay today's pensions. If, therefore, we go to a system such as that proposed by Mr Mitsotakis, where the contributions go to private insurance, this automatically cuts the resources for the provision, for the payment of the current pensions. A million two hundred thousand supplementary pensioners, therefore, stay straight in the air. If the state comes to cover this hole that will be created by the escaping the flow of contributions to private insurance companies, this will mean approximately EUR 30 billion of costs for the transition to Mr Mitsotakis' insurance system only for subsidiary insurance. I have not talked at all about the subsidiary insured, that is to say, the people who have so far paid supplementary insurance contributions and who would reasonably have to see benefits in relation to the contributions they have paid. There is something they have done, something they have to take. If the contributions are again directed towards private insurance, as Mr Mitsotakis described, then the today supplementary members must somehow be compensated for, somehow, benefits for what they have paid or will remain in the air. If they don't stay in the air and the state covers it, it will be an additional EUR 20 billion. We are therefore talking about a EUR 50 billion transition cost in a country that had a GDP of EUR 180 billion. For whose benefit? Today's subsidiary air-insured, today's ancillary pensioners in the air and public funds should be loaded on this huge phase. And the profit to whom? In the private insurance companies, which are already advertised by managerial placements for how good the returns are in the funds of the insured? This, in my opinion, complements all the image of the undermining of the public social security system, the image which was starting to be built by the acts of Officer Representation and which is complemented by its rhetoric, but also by Mr Mitsotakis' direct account of their programme. Before I go to what we do, I would like to submit some information in the Minutes, because all this parafiscality has to end over what is happening with contributions and pensions. Nearly all the spokesmen of the Officerate said the bill is a confession of failure of the government and a admission of the bleeding suffered by young professionals with the new insurance law of 2016. I repeat that the reality is that the vast majority of the self-employed - about a million two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners - from 1-1-2017 pay less than the previous pension scheme. More specifically, before the insurance reform, the insured persons who paid up to EUR 200 a month were 27%. After the insurance reform, insured persons who pay up to EUR 200 a month are more than 80% of all free traders. So we must finish with this lie, that there has been a bleeding of the free professionals, the self-employed and the farmers. I'm filing this evidence from the FBI, which proves the alerts that were sent to the freelance professionals last year. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, the New Democracy has again argued that the new insurance policy has led to thousands of businesses and blocs being shut down. The reality is that the number of free professionals and self-employed in 2015-2017 increased by twenty-seven thousand individual businesses. I am tabling the AIA data, which demonstrates the growth of individual enterprises over the two years. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thirdly, the New Democracy has again argued that pensions are being broken by insurance reform. The reality is that the average old age pension before the insurance reform in IKA was EUR 720 and after the insurance reform the average old age pension is EUR 720. The former OAU was EUR 920 before the insurance reform and after the insurance reform it was EUR 900. The former OGA was EUR 470 before the insurance reform and is EUR 480 after the insurance reform. I am tabling the relevant document confirming what I have said. [[At this point, Minister Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is another question if we consider these pensions to be low - I agree that these pensions are low, that they are low - and completely different to build a narrative that the new insurance is tearing down pensions. I heard from Mr Brutsis - I replied to him during the debate - that with low contributions supplementary pensions are actually being abolished and the one-off one and that an insured with thirty-five years of insurance that has contributed to the low amounts that we are voting on today will receive a single EUR 3 000 and an supplementary pension of EUR 30. I repeat that we have run this scenario completely with our proportionate principles, and the reality is that with these very low contributions for assistance and a single professional will receive thirty-five years of insurance a one-off pension that will be close to EUR 20,000 and an ancillary pension of EUR 140 per month. As for the change of the philosophy of insurance reform - because he said that - that we are actually cutting off the insurance law of 2016, to recall the basic element of this insurance law, in which our disagreement with the Change Movement lies, which in his proposal says there should be no connection to the real income. We say that there should be a connection between the levy and the actual income. That was the philosophy of insurance reform, and we are obviously defending it. That philosophy in no way changes. That you reduce the premium, that is to say lowering the percentage of the contribution to be paid by a freelance professional, does not change the basic point of the insurance reform, which is that people are now paying on the basis of their actual income. I think that this is right and fair, because it was completely absurd and unfair for an insured person to pay the same amount as another, regardless of their income. One cannot, in other words, have very high incomes and a very low income and pay the same, only because they are both in the profession for nine years, for example. I think that this was a very big distortion of the previous system, which we have restored - and rightly so - is also the core of the justice of the insurance company. Where are we today? I said that the funds have been received with a deficit of EUR 1,100,000 and within less than three years the public social security system is standing on its feet and is surplus. It is not a question of how much the surplus is now. It is important that the system has become sustainable in the long term and thanks to this firmness, we are also able to cancel the unnecessary measure of pension cuts. Now, with this intervention today by the bill, the whole of the professions, the self-employed and the farmers will pay less contributions than the previous system. So we have a system that has become sustainable. We have overcompensated the deficit that we have received. The whole of the insured will pay less than the previous system and we will clean up the back-up and outstanding pension applications that we have received. So the system is standing on its feet, it has a long-term sustainability, and that is an optimistic picture of insurance. It obviously has problems, obviously there are too many things left to do, but there is still a rehabilitation and credibility in the insurance system. This, in my opinion, is not a question of success or failure of a government, but it is a reserve for the future. That's why I don't understand why the officers of Officers are refusing. It has nothing to do with whether this thing was set up by these ministers or by others. It is important that you have an insurance system now for the country which is a reserve for the future, for our children, for the next generations. In this optimistic view - let me say so - the insurance system reflects the increase in employment, the decline in unemployment. I have often pointed out that the surplus of EVA is mainly because the revenues from employees have increased because unemployment has fallen, i.e. workers in the country are increasing. This optimistic aspect of social security reflects the reduction of undeclared and implied work, the result of the priorities we have set, the targeted action of the Labour Inspectorate. This new aspect of the insurance system reflects the efforts we are making to regulate the overall labour market by reintroducing collective agreements, by extending the sectoral collective agreements, which now cover about two hundred thousand workers in the country. This new optimistic aspect of the insurance system reflects our efforts to combat overall infractionality in the labour market through a series of legislation that we have brought to Parliament in recent years. In this optimistic view of the insurance system, even more impetus will be given to the forthcoming increase in the minimum wage and the abolition of the underpaid wage. In this new optimistic view of the insurance system - which keeps it stable and the public health system, as all payments to the public health system are made on time and this is very important - our struggle to regain work in the country is ultimately reflected. These are our labour priorities. All this serves our central debt to society - what I told you at the outset - to increase the income of workers, strengthen their negotiating power, extend their protection. I think we have proved it now - and we prove it in the very near future - on which side we are and who we are trying to support. We support the world of work. These will continue to be the ones to express. The only criterion for the success ultimately or not of our work is the continuous improvement of their lives and their everyday life.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Kalambakas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mrs Vayonakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u296	It is a little difficult after this storming speech by the Minister, which has been substantiated to answer the issues raised by the opposition, to take the floor. However, to justify the fact that I went up to the Step, I'll tell what I've written. Colleagues and colleagues, today is a good day for the Greek Parliament and for the Greek people, not only because we are voting on a bill that relieves thousands of our fellow citizens by reducing insurance contributions but also because it demonstrates in the clearest way that we are now in the memorial era, in which we can, for the first time, have, after a decade, reasoned budgetary expansion. We would like this extension to be greater, but our margins are specific. That's why we're not talking about benefits. We are talking about gradual restoration of injustices, about support for layers that have been hard hit by the crisis and prolonged austerity, and we are talking about supporting social strata, which we consider to be a vertebral column for the realisation of what we call 'just growth', namely young scientists, free professionals, small and medium-sized farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that SYRIZA's account, as long as the time goes, is confirmed. It was neither easy nor it was the effort that we all started together. However, it seems that there is a compass here, there is a plan, there is a strategy, and I would say that this is contrary to what is happening in the field of Officership. I therefore call on you to see this bill, as well as the measures that preceded it for collective agreements, for the return of the retrospectives or what will follow, namely the reduction of HNPH, the grant of the rent for the three hundred thousands of families, the recruitment of special education and the "Help at Home" programme and the most emblematic, perhaps, the abolition of the reduction of pensions as part of this plan which the government majority had in the first place. At first stage, we were aiming to support the weakest, the ones that the crisis was leading to the margin, and now by exploiting the financial area that was created, we are aiming to support medium-sized, free trade, self-employed, farmers. This bill is only a place in this effort. Dear colleagues and colleagues, to the bill now. The Katorugalou law was created to ensure the viability of the insurance system without needing another horizontal and blind pension cut, with the integration of the insurance funds and the logic of linking insurance contributions to the actual income of any employee, professional or self-employed or farmer. And he did it because the insurance system that we received on the verge of collapse with a deficit of 1,1 billion is now stable and surplus. Although this law, Law No.4387, has many positive elements, even for the majority of them - as has been said on several occasions - who are insured by 80% and over, the contributions are smaller even today, yet they also produced injustices by putting burdens on social groups of medium and large incomes. This bill of law wants to heal these injustices. And this is about two hundred and fifty thousand self-employed, free professionals and farmers. In particular, insurance contributions for the main pension of selfemployed persons and self-employed persons from 1-1-2019 by 33.3% are reduced. From 20% today he goes to 13.3%. Similarly, farmers' insurance contributions are reduced to 12% of 18%, which would be 1-1-2019. This is set at 12.67% in 2020, 13% in 2021 and 13.3% from 2022 onwards. The insurance contribution for the main pension of young scientists for the period up to and including the fifth year of their insurance is reduced from 2019 to 13.3%, i.e. the existing scheme of deductions is improved. For self-employed scientists, engineers, lawyers and doctors, the insurance for supplementary pension and one-off will be calculated retrospectively from 1-1-2017 on the minimum basis of calculation, irrespective of the amount of income. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by congratulating you on a number of regulations which may not be on the front pages, but are very important. I stand out the arrangements for strengthening the Labour Inspectorate, assuming that the APRC is a battle body by people who are fighting hard in the workplace to defend workers and all these years we have to say that it has had results. Black work from 18% in 2014 decreased to 12% today. It was oxymomile, however, that all these years there was no protection grid for workers in the APRC. I am also aware of the arrangements which allow workers to attend criminal proceedings as political plaintiffs for not paying their wages, so that they can also claim the penal punishment of the employer who did not pay the wage. I would like to finish with the Ministerial Amendment on the regulation of debtors who are freelance professionals in OAED's start-up or reopening of business programmes and, secondly, on arrangements for extending the School Lunch programme to the summer high and high schools. As I do not have time to say, I simply think these two are very important because, in the first place, they have access to insurance and are still aware of these professionals who are in these programmes throughout the period and since they are consistent with current contributions and, secondly, it is very obvious that school meals have very positive results and, indeed, it is of great importance that these extend to an important institution, such as summer and evening high schools and high schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law adds to a series of bills that have already been passed or voted on by the House and, on the one hand, marks the end of the memorandums, i.e. the country's exit from the memorandum policies and, on the other, characterise and specialize the progressive direction of SYRIZA's policy after this exit, a direction that is in a cross-cutting opposite to the policy of Civilian Anti-Population, which, if it does not overshadow the policy of the Memorandums. Without the memoranda, the New Democracy has no other policy, because that is its policy. We remember the reports by officers from the Officerial Representation on the blessing of the memorials, which if they were not there we should invent. It is still in our ears after Pierre Moscovisi's speech at the Senate Hall, which referred to the possibility of not reducing pensions, due to the improvement of economic data, that the report by the Second Vice-President of the New Democracy does not go ahead with a reduction in pensions, because the New Democracy programme is based on the reduction of pensions. This is why the New Democracy, and since August 2018, has been at hand since the continual debauches of those at times and constantly predicted or rather anticipated the failure of government policy. Therefore, the hypocrisy and disgrace which has been brought to bear by speakers from the Civilian Opposition is the same, since this is the case with its policy. Prior to the 2016 insurance reform, the insurance system was an anarchist, fragmented, irrational, ineffective and therefore unsustainable and socially unjust. ‘Flints and horns, not sprinkled’, with a large number of insurance funds, with different rules for the calculation of pensions. This situation, in spite of the cuts in pensions made to the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, has resulted in deficits of up to four hundred thousand unpaid pensions, except for unequal treatment of the insured persons. The insurance reform, No.4387/2016, has developed all the insurance funds into a single institution, the Single Social Security Agency and has established uniform rules for the insurance of all, regardless of professional activity and type of employment relationship. It has linked the level of insurance contributions to income, a regulation completely fair, and further introduced the national pension. Insurance reform, aimed at economic sustainability, rationalisation and social efficiency of the insurance system, are the principles of equality and social transgenic justice. In this context, the ECA is surplus, while there is a major and planned liquidation of pension applications. There is no doubt that L.4387/2016 also contains injustices and failures. That is what we must lift and correct. And this will gradually happen. This bill is a first step. The reductions in the insurance contributions provided for in the bill are actual. Substantial relief for freelance professionals, self-employed, new entrants on the labour market scientists, farmers, who are filmed materially in the pocket of insured persons. It's not propaganda announcements. I would like to refer to another regulation concerning industrial relations, individual labour law. I am referring to Article 23 for a representation of political education for workers who have not paid paid paid wages and compensation for redundancy. The provision of Article 23 regulates a deficiency which rendered the criminal prosecution inappropriate against the employer for the non-payment of gainful employment. Non-payment of accrued funds is a criminal offence. The worker, when due to pay, shall refer the case back to the APRC and refer the case to the prosecutor, who shall prosecute him. However, when the case was brought to the audience, the worker, to date, could not be present as a political plaintiff, since the non-payment of a contract does not give rise to a claim for compensation, financial satisfaction, for non-payment of a moral harm. Workers are now entitled, for the first time, to stand as politically plain plaintiffs in criminal proceedings against employers because of failure to pay paid wages or the payment of redundancies due. In this context, workers who are essentially wronged by the employer's illegal and criminally collusive act will be able to attend as politically plaintiffs in the trial and make a significant contribution to the diagnosis of the case and to the search for essential truth. Thus, after many others, already voted, regulations and the reintroduction of collective autonomy, collective agreements, another regulation is added to the benefit of the world of work. Subsequent to the non-subsidy, the rental allowance for four hundred thousand families, other arrangements such as the increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of the subsistence and on the basis of the anticipated positive development of the economy are expected not to reduce tax-free. Ladies and gentlemen, and with this bill, I would say that the position, predictions and expectations of the New Democracy are being dispelled for the mere date of the memorandums. We move on to remove injustices, to restore balance and to pave the way for the country's socially just productive reconstruction, with the work at its centre and, of course, with the support of the large social majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Spartinos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today to discuss and vote for the bill of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity to reduce the insurance contributions of the free professionals, the self-employed and the farmers, a bill that does not come as lightning in an atmosphere, as the government has already started to introduce measures to relieve large parts of the Greek people in the context of the attempt to reverse the adverse consequences of the memorandum. These measures, or rather countermeasures - because the term'measures' has been negatively charged in the last few years of the memoranda, since this term has covered all measures of austerity - the Prime Minister announced them in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and, among other things, provides for a reduction in insurance contributions by free professionals, self-employed persons and farmers, which we are debating today by 177, 000 euros, a reduction in HNVA by 260,000 euros, a reduction of EUR 400,000 000 000 for housing allowances, an insurance premium for new workers by 51 000, 000 euros, and a strengthening of the special treatment of 22 000 euros, together with a reduction in the taxation of legal persons of 1% per year and for four years. Of course, the imminent reduction in pensions is also coming, in which the opposition has politically opposed them. All this is reflected in the draft budget submitted only yesterday. This draft law on the reduction of insurance contributions will result in a majority of the non-wages, some hundred thousand insured, to see a very significant reduction from 2019 onwards in its insurance contributions. In particular, the insurance contribution for the main pension of freelance professionals and self-employed persons with an annual income exceeding EUR 7,032 is reduced by 33,3%, with a minimum monthly contribution of EUR 117.2. Moreover, doctors, lawyers, engineers will see even greater benefits in conjunction with reductions in contributions to the subsidiary and to the single, since the premium will no longer be calculated on the minimum basis of calculation, and no matter what income it currently applies, 64.5 euros will be above the minimum, and a engineer, for example, with a low income of EUR 9 000 per year, will have a total reduction of EUR 17.11%, i.e. EUR 450 per year. At the same time, farmers with an annual income greater than EUR 4.922 will see their main pension insurance contributions reduced by 33.3%, while maintaining the minimum monthly contribution of EUR 74. Indicatively again, a farmer with an annual income of about EUR 10,000 would pay a monthly contribution in 2019 for a main pension of EUR 150, while the relief will pay 100 euros. Finally, I would like to stay on another point, which is what is included in Article 22, namely the provision of a disaster pension for deaths due to natural disasters, which will be granted on a life-long basis to their relatives at 100% of the pension which would be entitled to the death penalty. Many of the opposition are saying that the measures we bring with this bill show that the law on insurance reform, the so-called 'Katrugalos', as it has been called, were unfortunate. I would like to remind them that new bases have been introduced and the country's insurance system has been saved within a suffocating period of one year, when such insurance reforms in other countries last for five and ten years to reach an insurance agency operating in the public interest and not in the interests of private insurance companies. In less than four years, after changing a page in the political history of the country, ladies and gentlemen, it has been shown that the dream of some for the left parentheses was a deceptive dream. Of course, no one can talk about parentheses. Evaluations which, in their opinion, were not closed, were finally closed. The cutters that came never came after all. The budgets that would have discrepancies had no discrepancies in the end. The measures which were inevitably avoided following the actions of the government and its policies. In short, the fourth memorandum that would come, not just came, but instead came the formal, but also substantial exit from the vicious circle of memorials. And now what will happen to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, without memos? It was for you a solution. It is now time for you to drink the bitter glass, as the Prime Minister said, of voting for the measures that the government brings to Parliament with every bill that comes to alleviate major social groups of our fellow citizens. I wish you well, strong and strong, and vote for all these bills. Ladies and gentlemen, the exit from the memoranda came on 21 August and will be continuously inspired every time such a bill comes - and many more like this will come - turning the page into the country's social, economic and political life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President. You see, history is written daily and has already written that this country has gone bankrupt by the old political system, which also enclaved it in the vicious circle of memoirs. It also says, however, that it is the current government that has begun to take the country out of this Cylon by significantly reducing unemployment by helping our weakest fellow citizens, stopping the pillaging of public wealth and coming to compensate for the consequences of the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK governments. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt. The Greek people see and watch and judge all this time. And you can be certain that we don't forget what austerity means, what social analgesia, what it means ultimately right with all its offspring. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u301	Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, today the SYRIZA - ANEL Government once again delivers the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Today, most Members of the majority are invited to vote for what they voted two and a half years ago with the Katrugalou law. Two and a half years ago, the government came to Parliament with the confidence and certainty that it was saving our insurance system. Today, therefore, it calls on its Members, who support it, to vote out the Katorugalou law, to rescue our insurance system by abolishing a salaried law, as we were told at the time. This great reform, ladies and gentlemen, lasted for just two and a half years. So much has been needed to understand the deadlocks of this law, deadlocks which we have highlighted since the first moment. You were told by the professionals themselves, by their organizations, by the people who, with irony, called them "the tie movement". Scientists, workers, and those of hardship and low incomes for which you are obviously not interested. So, what did the Katrugalu law do? What we had told you from the outset, to reduce both the number of productive Greece, both the number of self-employed, i.e. scientists, free professionals, farmers and the country's produced wealth. In simple terms, you have made the country poorer without reason, and obviously, at risk of throwing the insurance on the rocks, because with fewer and poorer accounts the account does not come out. So what did you do today? You have increased the debts of the Greeks to the insurance funds. Debts to the EBRD and the EIB exceed EUR 34 billion. You pushed thousands of our fellow citizens, young scientists to take them out to illegality so they can be forced to close their blocks and work in the shadows. So you are now coming with the new reform, as you call it, and you say you achieve the following: Firstly, you reduce contributions to self-employed, self-employed, farmers, but also lowering the pension they receive at the end, when they go to pension, because it changes the way it is calculated. We talked, and then, when the Katorugalou law was being discussed, and we told you that 20% of you have two parts, one is 13.3% of the employer and the other is 6.7% of the employee. And then we - but then, in the past forty years, we were the bad guys, while you were the good ones with the solutions - said that it is possible for the farmer to be a gentleman, be an employer of himself and pay contributions and be both a worker and give 6.7%? We told you! I would ask, then, whether there has been a debate on this matter in the Council of State too? You can give me an answer then. So was it another arrangement that would come tomorrow by the Council of State to tell you that you have made a mistake and to correct it? And is that what the Prime Minister announced in Thessaloniki today, legislate and celebrate, lowering 33.3% of the contributions? So, did the reality come? Did the reality come to indicate you what is right and what should you do? I'm asking if. And I remind you of the well-known word, that unfortunately the facts are stubborn and often outweigh us and do not change what is in place. So you keep it, and I'm waiting for the answers. What else does today's reform involve? Contributions continue, in our view, to be high, as the remnant of the Katrugalo Law does not work with the necessary recompense and proportionate justice, a basic principle for an effective and fair insurance system, an insurance system that will push the country into recovery and development that we so much need. What else do you achieve today? You are effectively abolishing supplementary pensions and a single pension. Those with today's contributions will receive a pension at the end of their working life have to receive a supplementary pension too low and a single of EUR 3 000 respectively. Behold the free professionals, who became employees after the Kakrugalou law, to accept outward pressures from their workplace, as they will now be inconsistent because of the high non-wage costs, compared to the other young workers. This is therefore the success of the Katrugalo law, which also achieves something else, to have two categories of pensioners now. We have pensioners who were retired before 2016 and their pension was calculated by the laws in force then and we also have pensioners who were retired under the Katrugalou Act after 2016. So, in other words, the pensioners of the SYRIZA-ANEL period are clearly and are also a large percentage of tens of thousands of our fellow citizens who receive a pension. And we are expected to see how the pensions of those who have applied for retirement will be calculated with the Katrugalos Act. So what do you do? Old pensioners before the Katrugalou law will not have a reduction in insurance contributions. The new pensioners, those who came out with the Katrugalou law from 2016 until today, will count their pension under this law and receive a smaller pension. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, you have done it in two and a half years. So one will ask: Since it was evident from the outset that the Katorugalou law does not come out, why did the government apply it? He must give us an answer. And he certainly doesn't have to go too far, in big words, with a tomb, with an irony talking to the Cape Opposition, swinging our finger and telling us what great he achieved today when he actually dignifies what he had voted for in 2016. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in ten seconds. The legislation, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, will be abolished the next day of Mitsotakis governance. A new system with basic national pensions, occupational funds and private insurance, a system with more capitalising characteristics will be what will come to give perspective and outlet to the country with a government with fewer insurance contributions, integrating best European practices and taking into account negative demographic data, increasing life expectancy and technological change. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Constantine has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. We are being called here today to vote on the bill to reduce the social security contributions of the free professionals, the self-employed and the farmers. It is another demonstration of the practical support for all those citizens who have lifted most of the irresponsible policies of the previous governments. We are now in a position to normalise the daily lives of citizens by promoting legislative initiatives in favour of many. More than two hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens will see reduced insurance contributions, and this figure will be added to the legislation that we had done in 2016 and 88% of the insured. This is the best answer to those who spoke strongly and commented on the alleged failure of the most surplus ECA and the supposedly forced future increase in insurance contributions. They're so out! It was the reaction of Mr Brutsi, who is here, to the committee meeting. As head of the Committee on Social Affairs, you were obviously upset when the institutions came with their positive suggestions. It was a disgrace to you. But when Question Time arrived, the words were unnecessary, because we were all aware that what came, and you are supporting today, was what you did not support in the Katrugalos Act. Let us remember your triumph, Mr. Brutsi, in 2014, when you were Minister and you were turning television shows when you were triumphing only for a denominator that we have achieved and fired, unemployment. You triumphed to increase unemployment at a reduced rate. I can't understand your triumph! So, you triumphed when the rate of unemployment was down and you tell us that we received the unemployment 28%, and now the Prime Minister has said that it has reached 18.9%? And now you can look at the ministers next door?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u305	For 40 percent you received it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u306	I don't understand such a triumph. Should we remember the dear Mr Stakoura, who is from the good Lamia and probably did not come here today, the Minister of Finance, who in 2015 spoke of a deficit in the payment of pensions close to 500 million, with the Greek retired person having suffered more than eleven reductions? And all this in the name of Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Antonis Samaras, in the notorious'success story'. Do you want to see this policy among Greek citizens? We do not triumph or say'success story'. We are doing what we promised in 2015. On the one hand, we have an Opposition that has the tactic of constantly dragging behind the agenda that your media puts, and you know it very well, and the war we eat, and it is forced to reproduce the false news or the English concept, the "fake news", which self-determined. Your instruments now ask your President, who has not come to the Greek Parliament today to support this bill that you are voting on today, to hide it. It's yours. They tell Mr. Mitsotakis not to go out long and speak. We want Mr. Mitsotakis to speak. Because with the polling companies you hire and get out of this, you will still fail, as in previous years. Politically, you haven't brainwalked and that account doesn't come out of you. You've invested in a logic of disaster. I remember in 2015- and specific ministers sitting on the cabinets - Antonis Samaras saying "Let's go on the rocks". Well, we broke the rocks and we've made them sandy. That's why we're going through what we're going through today. We broke the rocks. Others took us to the rocks. He's shouting for a lesser state. What do you mean by a lesser state? Less education? Less health? Less social state? That is our political difference. A neoliberal account that ultimately led to the bankruptcy of this country. And not only that, but the executives are talking to you about insurance and they're gladly coming out on television stations and talking about the Pinochet system. On the one hand, you are shouting for the fourth memorial and, because this account does not come out of you now, let's go to the other tactics "Tsofola give it all". If we give it all away, why do you vote for it and see that it is so? Why do you vote for it? Because you can't be with the policeman and the policeman. Either you decide that what we bring is good and you have to vote or you will condemn it. No, I condemn and vote for it. Because you don't get out, as I say, your tactics, your tactics are laughing and your schedule is crying. I'm sorry to say that, but I'm talking politically. On the other hand, the current government, having concluded a tough agreement, admitted it here in the Greek Parliament, protected the low levels. Within the next year, Mr. Brutsi and Mr. Stylion, since you are two here, you will vote for one by one. Will you also vote on the collective agreements that have been in progress and the retroactive dividends and the social dividend that will be paid and the insurance contributions that are reduced by the current bill and the reduction of pensions - which was due, Mrs Spyraki and she has been telling us liars, where is Mrs Spyraki lately? - and subsidisation of the rent that is being promoted and HISPHIA which is retroactively reduced for 30% of 1-1-2019 and recruitment for special treatment, while you first made redundancies, Mr Mitsotakis as Minister of the previous government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because you haven't gone to see what's going on in special education and in schools and what these people and parents are going through together. And you will also vote for the minimum wage. And we didn't bring the underwriting. You brought him in. You'll vote for one, one. Slowly drink the glass and take it. Publicly you win with the companies you put in. You know, as an old referee, I'll tell you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Constantine, don't start now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u308	Ten seconds, Mr. President. Once I spoke to a president. He had taken all the reporters and said his team was Barcelona. They all thought he'd get the championship. You know what he told me when they lost the championship? That they had a very good look.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Constantine, the referee showed a red card!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u310	You have a very good look! Nothing more. We've got the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Beyalas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since I am the last speaker, I would like to speak more calmly and to tell my dear colleagues in the opposition that I really do not want to be in their place today. I understand and understand you all - I think - the SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues that you are in a difficult position. Of course, to think that three years you shot us and shot us with this disaster and with that mess that will happen, that Armageddon will come. And I don't know what one might think if we remember what you told us. But it's time things got into place. Because whatever you sow, that's what you reap. You sowed destructiveness. You didn't come out. But something different came out. But come along and reap some fruits, which are about the regularity of the country, with the functioning of the state, which sees the citizen, with the policies that are being implemented by seeing the citizen. Honestly, who could have thought a few years ago, before 2016, that there was a possibility in Greece of the eighty-eight funds available to become one? It was unthinkable. It was heard here today in the Chamber that we have made a huge mistake that we did not implement a 2010 law, which was just stirring up the deck. He didn't dare. It was an experiment that was risky. It was a huge project, for which we were fighting, fighting and fighting all the people to succeed. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today voting for a reduction in contributions to a project and a structure which many countries have mentioned - and other colleagues have also mentioned - wanted and made six and ten years planning and gradually, step by step, succeeded in bringing it into operation and entering into operation. It worked for us. With injustices? Yeah. With mistakes? Yeah, but they're corrected every day. But it worked. I remember that in 2016 you told us that we would not pay pensions. You said you weren't going to get the pensions from 1-1-2017. It's gonna blow up, you said, the system in the air. And I'll talk about what system will be blown up in the air. Pensions paid. Over the two years, much more pension benefits have been paid than you have provided us with unpaid benefits. We only have forty thousand. Yeah, it's a weakness, and it's gonna have to happen quickly. It is, however, quite different to that of a pension scheme that you gave us and which you were bankrupt, in two years' time, to come and talk about a 33.35% reduction in contributions. Why was it what the Katrugalu law replaced? Do we forget? They've been abstractly mentioned, but I'll gather them. The fact that we had different pensions for different contributions? The fact that some were retired higher than their salary? The fact that some people gave up a lot of their pockets like us free professionals? Because it is very important for every two months to make EUR 970 - it is the last two months of my personal contribution of 2015, which was paid in January 2016 - to get out of your pocket and go out of your pocket and give them and have not provided any, medical care almost nothing, medical care for nothing. What about the pensions? Whatever they wanted to give. Let me tell you what we were talking about at the time when I was talking to my fellow professionals, these seven hundred thousand professionals? All right, we have an insurance fund, however, which has a lot of reserves - we said that before 2010 - so it is sure that pensions are even certain. Where were these reserves in 2014 and not just the TEBE, but all the funds? Are we forgetting this? Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to admit that you have a wrong policy and a wrong direction. But it's braveness to say that yes, we're going to this system, we're helping. You didn't only help two years, but you tried with all the media, radios, sites, televisions, with every expert who showed up in the public speech, not only to triple him, but to abolish it. And what do you say today? We're going to abolish the Katorugalou law. You'll remove him. But I want you to tell us: will you go to the previous system, where a farmer in the village could have a little shop, and TEBE would come and he would pay him 300 euros a month and 400 euros a month and destroy him? We are coming today and we are correcting these injustices, double insurance. Will you abolish that law? What are you gonna bring? Those systems again? Is the freelance professional going to pay to enjoy someone else in the CECE and in various agencies, which were quasi-corporate situations? Here, ladies and gentlemen, we have clear things. All citizens are equal to the social state. The same contributions you pay, the same pension you get. And in any case, we're not sure about what you're saying, that you're going to abolish the Katorugalou law. Because it has been mentioned that you will have a national pension scheme, with a private pillar, that is, the subsidiary to private individuals. One thing is for sure. The Minister has shown you how much it takes for us to go on the move. Madam Minister, you have no doubt if they ever come to power and want to do so, simply the subsidiary and the ones will be cut off once and for all. There is no chance that the 30 and 20 billion you have presented to us here with evidence to pay for them will be found. That's clear. But we have this. While in the exhibition of Thessaloniki Mr.Mitsotakis presented a vast system, the day before the 16th of this month, in Thessaloniki Summer said: "We will reduce insurance contributions from 20% to 15%." Gentlemen, let him know that 13.35% did it. We won't do 15%. In four years' depth. See Mr. Mitsotakis' speech in Thessaloniki the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u313	Aggregating with pro-health.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u314	No, sir. It says "from 20% insurance contributions for pension," it says specifically, not to put the video to you, "we'll get it 15%". And he said it on the 16th. The bill was filed, it was voted, it was in the committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Beyala, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u316	Consider that forty-four speakers have been signed in this Chamber today. Twenty-six spoke by SYRIZA, fifteen - two didn't come, if I'm not mistaken - from the New Democracy, one of the Democratic Compact and one of the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece. You understand what he's saying. He says a lot. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that today is indeed an important bill. And it is an important bill because it has indeed been built, set up and gives, now, positive news to professionals and farmers in very little time. It is an important bill because it gives the Greek people their strength and gives an important signal to the Greek people that yes, when we go in designed, coordinated and struggling, we can change this country, we can change our country from Psorocotina, with great and huge reforms to make it a modern country, a Greece where hope will take place. Mr President, I beg your pardon, but I would also like to say a thank you to the Minister for Article 24, for the SEA Department in Grevenes, which was abolished in 2013 and we are coming back. It is a demand that the workers themselves and the employers themselves want to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Beyla, that's what you should have started! Mr. Aivatidis has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u318	We have all listened carefully, I think, to the speech of the Prime Minister. First comment: The unemployment rate was incorrect, which said that it existed when SYRIZA took over the government. He reported 27%, while the actual rate was 25.2%. In fact, unemployment in August this year was 18.9%. This seemingly impressive fall in unemployment has nothing to do with the fleeing of scientists and professionals abroad. The workforce has declined very much and in order for there to be growth, there should be no overtaxation, investment should be made and there should of course be a workforce of sufficient size. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Secondly, with regard to the speech by the Prime Minister. He said that he has now entered a process, a memorandum of cooperation - obviously that is - with the people. What we have to say as Golden Dawn is that the only Memorandum of Cooperation, in addition to that concerning finance, is a memorandum that he has concluded with anti-Greek international centres representing various political actors, such as Moscovisi, Junker and Soros. This view is confirmed by the fact that Juncker in May of this year in Trier, Germany, had praised Marx as a creative inspiration for this ideology, obviously of Marxism. This Memorandum of Cooperation with the Fellows is about the assignment of Macedonia's name, about the people's change of our country and about the fight - if possible, at what level political life has reached the country! - the Greek Orthodox values. Golden Dawn, of course, will fight all these phenomena and we look forward to a return to our homeland, but it will come through an awareness of the political fraud of the policy applied by the coup d'état, which, on the one hand, has violated every programme statement, on the other, has been targeted, in order to survive politically, to deforestation of KINAL. We believe that to a large extent it will succeed. That, however, is what we believe that either in the next or in the next elections will not be enough for SYRIZA to survive politically. The Prime Minister consistently follows lynninist tactics, one step forward, two steps back. Since 1904, Lenin’s book on the problems in the party, which was then the rival awe of Martov. That's exactly what the Prime Minister does. I should like to remind you of what is involved in the divorce with LEADER. And these apply as a policy, with these emblematic solutions, clipboards, with a temporary result, such as the current draft law. What fall in unemployment is the Prime Minister talking about? OAS data: October 2018, registered unemployed are more than twenty-eight thousand nine hundred ninety. Of these 57% are unemployed for over one year and about 43% for less than one year. Indeed, a sustainable insurance system is called for, it is of key importance to the nation's survival. But can this be done over-taxed? The answer is no. With false overwritings, can this objective be achieved? Oh, no. Is it possible for the Greek state to attract investment with that amount of taxes? The answer is no. So these should in any case be corrected. Golden Dawn has drawn up a concrete plan. I would like to ask a question about the OAED statistical data and which has to be answered. Of these about thirty thousand young people registered, how many are Greeks and how many are foreigners? It is important, because there is a phenomenon of foreigners from neighbouring or non-EU countries - usually European - coming, receiving the allowance and then leaving abroad, in their home country. So this is a pathetic thing that I wanted to do with the opportunity of highlighting, and there should be solutions to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, too. Mrs. Ahchioglu, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u320	It is only for the amendments that I want to say. The amendments by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economy, namely Amendments Nos 1802/144 and 1805/145, are accepted. The parliamentary amendment to the Change Movement is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u321	Are the other ministerial amendments not accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u322	It's ours. Do you think I will not accept our amendments? We're the ones who testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u323	They are signed by several co-legislative ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u324	The secondaryities of the rapporteurs begin. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Stoyannides, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u325	First of all, we have seen today that the New Democracy's pension reduction account has ended, and now a new record has started on reducing duty in 2020. They will try to risk for at least no time, as they were at risk for pensions. Also, the New Democracy has made many provisions in the past as to whether to close or not to close the second assessment, the third assessment. All these forecasts have failed. They should stop predicting why they are at their expense, being exposed. Of course, a provision they make every day and I like to hear it - they can continue - is that they will win in the next election. As I hear this, the more certain the SYRIZA will be the winner of the next national election. I also want to say that the reduction in insurance contributions is not an excuse. This affects, first of all, the self-employed, the two hundred thousand and fifty self-employed, who are in a difficult financial situation and it is very bad to call themselves. So it's not an excuse. I also noticed that not one New Democracy MEP has referred to Article 23. What does Article 23 say? It gives workers the opportunity to present political trials against employers in criminal proceedings. This alone shows how much the New Democracy cares about the workers. The New Democracy supports the work jungle. SYRIZA is trying to restore working normality. There was also no reference made by the New Democracy Members to the articles on the establishment of new Labour Inspectorates and the protection of labour inspectors in cases of attacks on them by employers. This is another element that shows that the New Democracy supports the work jungle and also does not support the Labour Inspectorate. Some New Democracy Members have told us that the reduction in insurance contributions is on their schedule. Last Thursday, the draft law on the reduction of insurance contributions was introduced. In all the committees, the New Democracy has declared a reservation for one week. Today he said he would vote. I mean, something on her schedule was thinking about for a week. Anyway, what's the truth? I hope that in future they will be more stable and more serious in their positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u326	Thank you. Mr Brutsis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. I want to start by answering what was said before, to restore the truth, Mr President. Because as we close the debate on insurance and the issue of contributions, I think it is time to hear some things, then the Minister's position, so that we could put things in place. Firstly, the New Democracy - and I address the SYRIZA side - is voting to reduce insurance contributions because it is our declared position. What was inaccurate was heard by some SYRIZA rapporteurs, who do not know and are justified not to know, I must tell them that for the first time in the history of the country's insurance system, New Democracy, in the Samara government, reduced insurance contributions by six units. What did SYRIZA do then? He denounced us and did not vote for the reduction in contributions. He's going to fall out of the insurance, he said. I repeat that the brave reforms of the Samara government in insurance and strict measures against inconsistent employers, such as the fine of EUR 10 500, which you kept, although you had not voted on it, were measures in favour of the workers, which, together with the reduction of contributions, led to the declining of unemployment and hit undeclared work. I would ask the Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglu, to give the Prime Minister correct information so that he does not expose him. Undeclared work was 42%. So I received it and reached 13%. Leave the average terms. I'm clarifying that, so we know what we're talking about. Secondly, what happens after today's bill was passed? Let the world hear it today. Listen, SYRIZA's main argument in the Katrugalo Law, the main pillar, the main argument we heard in here was in insurance, which was based on the integration of the system. Where? In single insurance contributions of 20%. You supported it, you denounced the country's productive bodies as the 'Wravata Movement' outside the House, you have denounced us saying that the contributions must be reduced, and now what are you doing? You're reducing contributions. We welcome you to our declared position. However, from today the bill will be passed, we will know that there will be two categories of workers: the self-employed, who will be with a contribution of 13.33% and the employees with a contribution of 41%. That's where our differences are. We have reduced the indebtedness of non-wage labour by six points, and we are insisting today that this 41% more must be reduced, because it will help declining unemployment. Here are the development proposals. But there's one more thing. Listen up. I'm addressing the Prime Minister. From today, you should know that two categories of retired people are created: the before the Katorugalou law with the 2014 pensions and the post-law Katrugalou. We have two counts. So retired people with the same job, and with the same years of insurance, they'll get different pensions. The difference is 35%, Minister, before and after the Katrugalu law. That's the lane you've created. This is social injustice. In subsidiary 45%, too, the difference is. I now come to the other issue, which the Minister left unresolved. And since it is a very serious matter, Minister, I would ask you to bring in a next debate the proportionate study confirming that with 20 euros the worker will pay from here and beyond, he will get 19 000 euros a single one, as you said. I'll give you my data now. The Minister didn't testify. I'm waiting for another meeting to make them public. So listen: according to the law today, EUR 586 for 4% for twelve years for thirty-five years. That makes us 9,844 euros. I remove the deflator 3% and it leads me to the present value of EUR 3,274. That's the only one anyone gets anymore. It's what I said: present value 3,274 euros. The Minister says 19,900 euros. We have a very important difference. The Greek Parliament and the world, Mr President, must learn the truth. The same - I shall not say the same - is the supplementary pension at present EUR 30. I expect the Minister to bring the evidence. It is a very important development, which has passed without being discussed in the House. I'm on two issues. The Prime Minister inaccurately said - it is not responsible, there is distortion, not information - that the insurance system is sustainable. Wrong. There is no sustainable insurance system, Mr President, neither before nor after that, when an insurance system is based on the state budget. We're fulfilling sustainability conditions. What were these sustainability conditions? Andreas Loverdos inherited me the commitment of the country. I inherited SYRIZA's commitment of 16% by 2060. Why does the Prime Minister avoid saying about the first proportionate study in such a serious debate? And it's a matter of bravery, Minister. Tomorrow you'll be here in Opposition. I do not want you to have the same treatment from the next or next Minister for Labour, because it is unfair. The first proportional study, Mr President, which measured the law on insurance, has taken it as a result of fulfilling the conditions of sustainability. SYRIZA took him and threw him in the basket. The lenders rubbed their hands and put them, of course, in the line they wanted and reduced pensions by the Katorugalou law. And the second commensurate study of the Katorugalo in SYRIZA also shows that the system fulfils the sustainability conditions by 2060. That's the truth. Pensions are down. I come to the last chapter, Minister, on the issue of the deficit to solve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u328	Finish it, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u329	I think the conversation we're having is beneficial.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u330	Right, but time's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, it is very simple. Listen. Is there a surplus of insurance? No, Mr. President. This is a accounting alchemy. The insurance can't have surpluses. It's incomprehensible. Listen to why. I'll see you in the budget. I bring it as an example. Nor can a surplus budget be created in the future in the insurance sector. Why? Let's go to page 91 of the budget, Table 326, which has the insurance contributions. Listen. The annual expenditure on pensions, Minister, with your own figures for yesterday's budget, is EUR 25 275 000. It is an account for 2018. I'm not saying 2019. It's not a comparison. Of these, 1.2 billion come from the CRL to strengthen and from contributions are only 9.2 billion. What does that mean? It means that in the state budget, as you say, the taxpayer puts 14,790,000 euros. Is the budget for the insurance funds surplus when the budget puts EUR 15 billion annually? Finally, stop this thing. And the mockery has its limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, too. The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Konstantopoulos for three minutes with relative tolerance to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned in detail my protagonists in the regulations of the draft law, arrangements to reduce contributions to a category of free professionals, self-employed and farmers. I would say that great expectations have been created, which were not fully confirmed. And that's why? Because the level of contributions is still dependent on two unstable factors: firstly, the imminent increase in the minimum wage framework and, secondly, the imminent abolition of the 15% discount. Bad lies, Mr Ministers, young professionals and young scientists are looking forward to substantial support in order to stay and work in their homeland, so that they can make their own home, make their own family. Madam Minister, however, with your arrangements, you are charged with subsidiary contributions, which will have to pay not only a month - a month - but also retrospectively since 2017, adding them another burden. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government has essentially admitted the inadequacy and problems of the Katrugalou law, whose regulations with amendments to various bills are trying to correct. We have repeatedly stressed the major problems of this law that make it necessary to abolish and replace it by a rational and fair insurance system. In this respect, we have tabled in this bill and amendment on contributions, on the establishment of eight insurance schemes and their reduction, and on the introduction of a higher ceiling for small and medium-sized professionals and farmers, which we invite you to accept. Now on the amendments tabled. Amendment No 1802, and Amendment No 144 once again extends the payment of the obligations for supplies and services to hospitals, primary health care units and the Ministry of the Environment. Unfortunately, you have raised the exception to rule. The amendment, under the general number 1805 and specific 145, regulates the issues of the Ministry of Digital Policy and the supervision of the 'Information Society'. I cannot comment on the fact that this is a procedural issue that could have already been resolved, as well as that a draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy was just discussed yesterday, to which the amendment was not incorporated. For the amendment of a general number 1806 and a specialist of 146 of the Ministry of Labour for freelance professional debtors in programs and their inclusion in the OAED as well as in school meals, no one objects. Also, for Amendment No 1807, and for Amendment No 147 of the Ministry of Labour on the Single EFF contribution, a resource in favour of the former CSMEDE, as well as insurance arrangements for affected members of the Welfare Fund, we will not disagree. Madam Minister, today you have taken a small step towards improving the position of free professionals, self-employed and farmers. It's welcome, I'd say, but it's not enough to lift the injustices of the Katrugalo Law. We, the Democratic Integration, have precisely put our proposals to support small and medium-sized enterprises, the free professionals and the households involved in the proposal that we have tabled. I mention, for example, that we are proposing a three-year income tax exemption and pension insurance for young people starting their business, abolishing a special solidarity contribution to natural persons, recalculating and regulating late payment of insurance contributions to the EUPM or to the EBRD up to EUR 40,000 to facilitate retirement. We also propose the reduction of contributions and the introduction of a higher ceiling for contributions by VKAs to small and medium-sized and free professionals, the recalculation and settlement of debts in the OGA of up to EUR 10,000 to facilitate retirement, the exclusion from the reduction of pension due to rural activity, the minimum guaranteed income for the individual pensioner at EUR 500 and for the couple at EUR 700, the abolition of the injustice to widowed pensions, the reduction of the contribution to treat drug participation. Finally, we propose sustainable and definitive regulation of existing dues to tax administration and social security institutions up to a hundred and twenty instalments with an advance of 5%, which concerns either natural or legal persons. Minister, we invite you to accept our proposal and bring it to the debate. Finally, we, the Democratic Reconciliation, will vote on this bill to reduce insurance contributions because it was and remains our position and everything that lightens the workers is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, too. Mr. Shahinides doesn't want to speak. The other rapporteurs will take the floor. Mr Katsotis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. The falsification of the M' M' Municipalities' Limitation in Degree VI from the cleaner in Volos, based on the laws of civil power, is a bigger crime than grabbing 100 billion euros from the insurance funds, from contributions, from pensioners' pensions. The condemnation of the farmers of Elijah in twelve months of imprisonment with dozens of police officers - in uniforms and politically - of guarding them as criminals under ordinary criminal law, the dozens of rural courts, apprenticeships, labour courts, the suppression of mobilisations, the revival of the security union, all strikes being judged illegal on the basis of strikeable regulations of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, this is the rule of law. It is equality against the law and inadmissible justice, the cleanser in prison for ten years and the assumptions of those involved in a multimillion-dollar scandal have been pending for several years. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Prime Minister's question, 'What will you become without barbarics?' the answer itself is given by the people who live the barbarity of your policy, which is implemented by all governments today by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. He wondered what will happen now with the tables showing the previous period of reduced pensions, destroying the Katrugalos law. We have to tell the Prime Minister that the cut-off tables are well known to pensioners. They see the scissors that emptied their pocket and cannot meet their essential needs. Prime Minister, you claimed that the great insurance reform of Katorugalo made the insurance policy viable. Let's assume that's the way it is. But that was after you made the life of the retired. The Prime Minister has claimed that you are recovering the job. You are disproved by the elements of "ERGANI" themselves, which show that 62% of recruitment is in flexible forms of work. The Prime Minister claimed that not only will personal differences be cut, but five hundred thousand pensioners will see increases of up to 20 euros. She did not, however, say that the majority of pensioners have received reductions of up to 50% in her pension. Prime Minister, as you rightly said, they lost more than 300 euros a month and said "glorify us, thank us for giving you 20 euros now!" The new method of calculating pensions gives reduced pensions by 30%. That is a reality, one truth that you cannot overthrow. You claimed the APRC did a great deal of work against infraction. The front page today of the 'RIZOPASTI', which the Parliamentary spokesman showed before, also reveals that on your day, on the basis of the EIA report - your own data - we had the fewer controls, most of the crimes of the employer with a dead man every five days, most of the accidents at work since 2009. Sixteen thousand five hundred fiveteen workers have been crippled, others seriously and others less. We had a vertical increase in labour flexibility - flexibility, as the PASOK ministers used to call it - and of course the launch of the work of the minors. Is this all a retrieval of work? The Prime Minister claimed that he plans to raise the minimum wage. The activation of the Brutsi Act by your Government what does it mean? Doesn't it mean abolishing the collective bargaining? Does it not mean denying the minimum wage to EUR 751? Isn't that Hoja's logic? The minimum wage has been reduced by EUR 145 per month, will you raise it by EUR 20 and thank you for the working class? This is not a memorial to the people. It is a memorandum with monopolistic and business groups to ensure their profitability, maintaining all overturns and continuing reforms to maintain stable profitability of their profits. Allow me to make a few points on some articles. Article 8 lays down as the date of retirement of the EIF for all pension categories of old age, disability, death - the first of the following months of the application. We think you should get this back. Invalidity and death are extraordinary events and those who suffer them, the last thing in their minds is to apply for a pension. You claimed that this was the case before. It never existed. You are now bringing this arrangement, effectively removing a pension from the beneficiaries. Let me go to another matter. With regard to Article 34, we will vote in favour of setting up organic positions in social policy centres. However, we are asking for the conversion of current temporary posts into permanent posts and the recruitment of others to meet the needs. As far as Article 35 is concerned, we agree to extend the work of temporary staff, as you say. We are once again putting the question of the permanentisation of these workers who have been working for up to twenty years and the recruitment of others to meet the needs. For the ministerial amendments in their vote we will say a few things. As far as the doctors are concerned, we are radically opposed. It's in a worse direction than it was. Once again, of course, we have voted against it, there are many elements of this amendment that will be exploited by the companies themselves, which will be without doctors, and the crimes of the employer will be further increased, the occupational diseases will be the ones that will be left over, apart from the accidents at work, which we have said a lot more workers have been made redundant at the time compared with the previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr Papachristopoulos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u337	I'll be very brief. I'm going to get away. It is one of the few times that I am impressed by - and I say it - by the Minister's speech. It was the epitome of correct reasoning. Anyone who really is well-advanced and wants arguments to read this reason carefully. One by one was the collapse of all the opposition's objections. I was impressed, and he would really do me a big favor if he gave me that reason. If he doesn't give it to me, I'll take him out of the Minutes! Finally, I would like to say this: for a loaf of bread, Gabriel was afflicted by the "Athlius" of Victor Ugo. There was no one expecting a cleanser who worked for eighteen years - perhaps more - to be sentenced to ten years in prison, to have judges convicted of a young girl who worked for eighteen years, who did so in fact. I would like to congratulate the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay on her sensitivity, because I believe that this story must have another end. I have no more to say. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u338	Thank you too, Mr. Papachristopoulos. We're moving on with Mr. Mavrota, a special speaker of the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I will not need more than three minutes for my dentistry. During the committees, but also today in plenary, I asked a few questions and asked for some clarifications from Mrs Fotou, for example, concerning the figures in the General Accounting Office of the State, for this difference of EUR 1.1 million and for the three hundred and forty-one organic positions that are created. I didn't get any answers. You still talk to New Democracy alone. The other parties are like they don't exist. It's okay, we're gonna talk about it and find a wall toward us. However, know that with this tactic and this food you are giving to bipolarism, at the end bipolarism will eat you too. You have tabled a number of amendments to dozens of pages and a number of 'politics'. You are thus continuing on this path of cynical parliamentaryism. These are amendments by the Ministry of Labour in a bill by the Ministry of Labour and we wonder why they did not go directly into the bill. Why is this parafiscalisation of legislative procedures? To speak a little bit about the Health Ministry's amendment of 1802 and of a special number of 144, which we again have 'with the exception of specific and general provisions', let me say that I am also in the Health Committee for which the scandals are being examined from 1997 to 2014, that there the SYRIZA MPs constantly accuse and criticise old practices, because it was precisely the legislative procedures that were carried out. Now that they have come to power they do not speak of the derogating provisions that come with various amendments. It seems that this practice is, unfortunately, time-consuming and does not seem to have been abandoned by the present government either. When you take over power, it's like you're having an amnesia in general on such matters and repeating them, and you've already sworn them. So there is an easy solution for him by means of the amendment, by means of the backdrop. I am going to refer to the legislative improvement under number 10 which Mrs Fotou obviously presented, which gives the entire moleculosis for organic positions in a legislative improvement. Oh, my God! Not even an amendment! Not even in the bill to talk about it! We have already said that such practices impart parliamentary procedures. In general, I would like to say to the government, because there will be more bills coming, not to rejoice because we will vote on the articles in this bill. You disagree with the one who finally throws the boat on the rocks doesn't mean you won't fire the lifeboats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u340	Thank you. Last speaker is Mr Megalamoustakas from the Central Association, who has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. We have said too many times about the draft laws that come here in Parliament that they do not come in the right way. It also calls for the number of legislative improvements that come, which are not simple improvements, but often change the substance of many of the provisions in the bill articles. Once again, it is clear, as is clear, that amendments relating to the bill are being tabled, but they could have been tabled to the committees for discussion. I would therefore like to make our views clear on the amendments. We shall be voting in favour of the amendment on the matter of the Ministry of Health. The rest of us will say 'the present', because this is the attitude of the Central Association, when last-minute amendments are made. As a reaction to this practice which is gratuitous, we would say, the value of Parliament, our choice is not to take a position. Now, as far as the positions of the ministers are concerned, we have not received any answers, like other parties, to what we have asked through our speech. So we are disappointed with your practice. However, we will vote for this bill. We are positive because we cannot deprive any Greeks of even a small breath in this difficult struggle to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Iliopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u343	Good. I would like to make a first comment. I understand Mr Mavrotta's right to criticise that it is not always all the things from the Ministry of Replies, etc., but I think it is a little unfair to charge a whole course of thinking that we are not answering questions and not trying to debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u344	To this particular one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u345	I said it was wrong to generalise that, because a question has not been answered, it is a whole thing. That's the one. Secondly, an answer which does not just go to Civicism is a bit more comprehensive and a matter of logic. We have heard today that we have come here to change the whole architecture of an insurance law, when all the evidence shows that, in the part in which we are intervening - to the self-employed - out of a million five hundred, we have made an intervention for the two hundred and fifty thousand, because the other million two hundred fifty thousand are already better placed than the one that was before that legislation. So in the first place - and I say this for all of Parliament's wings - it is the definition of corrective action rather than fundamental change, because it has produced positive results. And that is what even the opposition from speakers who said that you are making a change, but it is only about two hundred and fifty thousand people. Yeah, it's only about two hundred and fifty thousand, because the remaining one million, two hundred and fifty thousand, is already in a better position. Observation one. Observe second, again, for all Parliament's wings. The general debate and the logic of over-taxation and high-taxation does not work out, it does not actually work, except that it is politically wrong, because, if you want to have a social state, you must have a tax. Generally, the neoliberal concept of having no taxes and leaving them all to regulate the market, if you like, is politically disagreeable. To have public hospitals, public education, public social security, you must have tax. However, with data from the OECD, not from SYRIZA, in the part of insurance contributions as a percentage of GDP in Europe, Spain, Estonia, Finland, Italy, Belgium, Slovakia, Germany, Slovenia, the Netherlands, Austria, France, all of these are above us. We're only 11%. And these are elements of the OECD. I understand that a Member of Parliament, a political force and say 'no, we want to go further down', but that figure is not overtaxation and excessive insurance contributions. Now, having finished the general, let me deal with the New Democracy a little. Today Mr. Mitsotakis went for a walk from Kipseli and said: "Let the Prime Minister come once a walk from the center." I remind you the Prime Minister lives in Hive. I think this small example shows a little your relationship with reality on a number of issues. And a second point: if it is, every time we vote on a positive measure in the House, Mr Mitsotakis takes a walk to Athens, he will soon return to Athens. Well, we're starting now. Analogy study of how sustainable the insurance system is, publicly known, deposited, has been approved by the Commission's Euro Working Group and says by 2060.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u346	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u347	Yeah, but you're saying there's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u348	And the first time was the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Brutsi, I didn't interrupt you. A lifetime the same thing. You have a tendency to get mad at me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u350	I'm not upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u351	Keep it a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u352	I'll fill in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u353	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u354	To fill out your knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u355	I don't fill you in, though. It cannot be completed. What can we do now? The sets don't button.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u356	You see with one eye.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u357	Part two. I don't understand. In other words, the other rapporteur said before, 'we will intervene in the insurance sector taking into account negative developments in demographic and life expectancy'. You come back later, you say about state participation. If all of this is to be buttoned - you want the contributions to be reduced, you want there to be no state participation - at the end of the day pensions will probably be brought by Santa Claus. I mean, it doesn't come out any different, there's no other intervention. And to come to an agreement, public insurance - because we are talking about a public social security system - it means state involvement. And state participation exists throughout Europe. Can't you question the surplus of EFKA, which means? That we have a budget, given that there is state participation - because all over Europe there is state participation - and this budget goes better every year. Why does it go better? For two basic reasons: firstly, because unemployment is falling. Unemployment is falling and employment is growing, more people are working, not because people are leaving abroad. All figures show net jobs. And I said it again: When the annual issue of "ERGANI" comes out for 2018, we will see more or we will get close to four hundred thousand net jobs with a ratio of 70% - 30%. I'll say it again to be clean. Secondly, because collectivity has improved. Why has the collection of income to the self-employed improved? Because with the intervention of this three-stage law that you will abolish, which we abolish eight times, but since we have abolished today, I do not know what you will abolish - I leave this - it has improved the collection, because insurance contributions are more human beings. And last report - and I close with it - on our favorite issue of undeclared work. We told you, you told us, we'll see you again. You're making a series of poachings. You say undeclared work was 40%. It was never 40%. First smuggling: undeclared work in the sectors of high infraction. Because if I get your own data and get the sign that says: "Undeclared work in the whole economy", it will seem that in 2013 you have recorded undeclared work in the whole economy of 2.5% and in 2014 you have recorded undeclared work in the whole economy close to 5%. So I would come here to tell you that you doubled undeclared work in the whole economy. So first poaching that you're always forgetting to say the high offense industry. Second poaching: Take a monthly percentage that is marginal in a period when you start setting up the system and forget that the annual average for 2013 was 30%, deliver it to 19.2% and it is not right that you found it at 30%. The integrated phrase is that we 'dissolved the labour market. We managed to get the undeclared work to 30% and tried to do three interventions to collect it and give it to you at 20%." This is the reality of undeclared work and has been seen by too much. I'll see you in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u358	Mr President, may I ask a question about an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u359	There will be no debate, because we are outside the Rules of Procedure. The government's closed the debate. You're asking me the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u360	To you, yes. In Amendment No 1807, with a special number of 47, the first two articles are missing which have been incorporated into the insect of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u361	It's 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u362	You have not clarified that these first two articles are in 4 and 5. In any case, we must also know what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u363	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned: 'Reduction of insurance contributions and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty-seven articles, of four amendments, of the farewell article and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you have to "rol" the touch screen. At the top right of the touch screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you have the opportunity to check it and to revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u364	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u365	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u366	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Reduction of insurance contributions and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u367	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u368	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u370	Here you go, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, since the amendments are in separate articles while the vote is all together, we voted on them all differently than we would have voted on in an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u372	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-22-S1-commons.u373	With the consent of the House at 22.35 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 23 November 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of the topical questions, (b) the day of celebration of the National Resistance, (c) the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, and (d) the continuation of the debate on the current questions: Prime Minister's time.
