ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 5-6-2018, the PLA's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Tuesday, 5 June 2018, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: “Incorporation into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/89/EU “within the establishment of a framework for maritime spatial planning” and other provisions.”]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House on Friday, 8 June 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The Question No 1751/5-6-2018 by Mr Haralambos Athanasiou, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning'measures taken to dismantle the islands of the Eastern Aegean and, in particular, Lesvos'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - 1742/4-6-2018 topical question by PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: 'The government, for the sake of creditors, is advocating the regulated net to protect the loss of interest on the debts of the indebted households'. 3. - The 1748/5-6-2018 topical question of the Greek Communist Party MEP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "Truths in the Centre for Reception and Identification (CYT) Orestiada Bridge. 4. - The 1741/4-6-2018 topical question by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'About the legality of the Skouria mine'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The 1752-5-6-2018 topical question of Athens, New Democracy, Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “School of Business and Tourism”. Another loose end of the SYRIZA - ANEL government." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The 1730/30-5-2018 topical question by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'The lack of democratic representation of students in the OSH'. 3. - The 1704/25-2018 topical question by Mr. Athens, New Democracy, Mrs. Annas - Michel Asmakopoulou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: 'Talk and charge for consumers by delaying the reimbursement of sums paid to the ELTAs for the payment of PPC's accounts'. 4. - The Question No 1611/7-5-2018 by Mr Christou Dimas, Member of Parliament, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Development, on the subject: 'Absorbing the resources of the NSRF 2014-2020'. 5. - The Question No 1674/21-5-2018 by MP Lassithi of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Plakkatakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the subject: "E. on the supply of new ferry ships from the Hellenic Coast Guard to strengthen surveillance of maritime borders, effective investigation and rescue and the fight against crime at sea." 6. - The question by Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Economy and Development, on "Control placement of greenhouses for the production and processing of finished cannabis products". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. - The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Integration of work in the second phase of the expansion of the electricity distribution network Megalopolis Arcadia". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The question asked by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development about the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the impact of the measure on Greek exports. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I will first announce the timely questions that will not be discussed. The first, with number 1734/4-6-2018, top-stage question by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Municipal Market of Chalkida”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture, Ms. Konordos, which is located in Syros. The first one under number 1750/5-6-2018, a topical question from the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "RRF/SR 2014-2020 of the works of Amphipolis, due to the blockade of the Ministry of Culture", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Culture, Mr. Konordos, which is in Syros. The second under number 1749/5-6-2018 topical question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyiannis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Uncontrolled violation of the environment in the Athens University Institutions and in the wider area of the Mars Field", will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska. Because of his meeting with the Fire Corps and all the co-responsible bodies for the anti-nuclear period in the current year. The fourth under number 1698-24-2018, a topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The problems of the operation of ELOS. In the Dodecanese, in the tourist season, it will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Toska. Because of his meeting with the Fire Corps and all the co-responsible bodies for the anti-nuclear period in the current year. The fifth question, No. 1715/29-5-2018, topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Prevention measures to prevent forest fires and address their consequences for the new anti-nuclear period", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Toska. Because of his meeting with the Fire Corps and all the co-responsible bodies for the anti-nuclear period in the current year. The sixth question under number 1672/21-5-2018, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Anti-nuclear preparation of the country in the light of the summer period", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Toska. Because of his meeting with the Fire Corps and all the co-responsible bodies for the anti-nuclear period in the current year. The seventh question, No. 1673/21-5-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems in the Roma camp of Patras", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Toska. Because of his meeting with the Fire Corps and all the co-responsible bodies for the anti-nuclear period in the current year. The eighth Question No 1609/7-5-2018 by MP Larissa of the New Democracy, Maximos Charakopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "A Letter of protest and despair residents of the Exarchates", will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Toska. Because of his meeting with the Fire Corps and all the co-responsible bodies for the anti-nuclear period in the current year. The ninth under No. 1615/8-5-2018 topical question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Eve Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Nine tolerance of the residents of Exarches in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Toska. Because of his meeting with the Fire Corps and all the co-responsible bodies for the anti-nuclear period in the current year. The twelfth under No. 1628/11-5-2018 topical question from the Independent MP II of Athens (State) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all manners of attacks by underworld and fork rebels", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Toska. Because of his meeting with the Fire Corps and all the co-responsible bodies for the anti-nuclear period in the current year. The thirteenth question under number 1638/15-2018 of the new Republic of Athens, Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis, dated 1638-15-2018, on the subject: "In despair, the residents of the Exarches, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Toska. Because of his meeting with the Fire Corps and all the co-responsible bodies for the anti-nuclear period in the current year. The third under No 1726/30-5-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: “Low-up loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to tobacco producers in Thrace”, will not be discussed due to the absence of Foreign Minister Nikolaos Kotzias abroad. The tenth under No. 1554/24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the building for housing of the Department of National Roads of Paionia, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. 'They are not discussed'. Eleventh under number 1151/26-2-2018 a topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of agent based on the revelations of P. Kammenos" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska. 'They are not discussed'. The second one, with number 1746/5-6-2018, is a topical question for Parliamentary II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos Manolakos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The consequences of the operation of the HYTA Gender" will not be discussed due to lack of competence. For all of this, there is a letter from the Secretary of Government confirming the reasons I have told you. MEP George Kumoutsakos seeks permission from absence abroad for 11 June 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. There will only be one question, will the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Mr.Nicholaos Mavraganis, who is present and is the current question by MP IV of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Change the Minister's decision to relocate the Amaxostas of the Greek Republic with the assurance and reorganisation of the facilities to support the necessary transport project in Lefkapedi". Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor, with a slight tolerance, since it is the only question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Government, in addition to the other commitments it has made to the capital, the memoranda it has implemented, proceeds to the closure of the Greek Amaxostasios. This is a very serious matter because it concerns the millions of people in the Attica basin. It is a train station that supports all transport work and, in particular, those areas which have no means other than bus lines. Already the transport work is far behind the needs that exist today. And it is more certain that the deterioration will be the one that will prevail after the closing of a train station and the ministerial decision, which provides for it. The Amaxostasio, where it is located, has zero nuisance to the urban fabric of the lecanopodio and serves, if you wish, with very few dead kilometres, the Attica Lefkade, with less pollution and less energy consumption. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] There are, in particular, studies by Mr Voscoglou, who draws attention to the government on this serious issue and calls on it not to close the train station. Of course, the government should have had three and a half years now - it may have been time for the responsibilities that this area was not even negotiated, so that it could serve millions of passengers to Athens - but the problem will be very serious in the next few years, because relocation is impossible. The work to be done in Attica, which must be improved, cannot be done by transferring all this infrastructure to the rest of the trains, which are very small, do not fit and the issue will be very serious. However, the choice for the Triumph by the transporters does not prejudge it, because they say that it is not a solution to the great problem that will take place in Attica. Our question concerns this, if the government really intends to take this decision back, and if it intends to ensure the continuation of the operation of the Amaxisian Greek, of course, with reorganisation and improvement of the facilities and support for the transport work provided in Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much for the question. It is abrupt to the sensitivity you personally show over time on the burning social issues. Indeed, it is true that we have found a signed contract and even a bad contract. A contract which did not provide for either the removal of the relocation itself, which is a frustrated one or the savings of those resources needed to relocate. This contract was ratified by the Greek Parliament, unfortunately, in November 2014 and constituted a law of the State. We tried to change it. We couldn't change it. Our concern is that there should be the slightest possible disturbance in the body. And this inconvenience is that the internal market does not have any influence on the positive transport project and therefore on our fellow citizens, our fellowman, who is using public transport every day. I think it would be very much outside the orientation of humanism if they imposed our fellow humans on their daily lives from this internal procedure of the UCLAF. What we are looking forward to, Mr Rally, Piraeus, Botanic and Anthussian relocations. We believe that by transporting some old and inappropriate vehicles, about seventy-two, the number, in the Triasian Field, we will save the space that is needed to enable the rest of the trains that I told you to relocate the three hundred buses that are in Greek. It is obvious that if at the moment it was up to us, we would not make any move in this direction. We have to. We will do so with the least possible disruption, guaranteeing their main workers first and foremost - because I am well aware of your sensitivity in this direction - which any additional work needs to be done, will be necessitated. Secondly, no bus line will be switched to a first level since this relocation. And the final transport project will be exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u6	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is, of course, the answer given by the agency, which says that it is preparing for the relocation. However, as I have said, Mr Voscoglou draws attention to you because any relocation, particularly in Petrou Rallis, in Piraeus, in Ano Liosia, as you said, is not possible because the positions that can be accepted are very few. And these buses that are out of operation - which go to Triasios - are not enough to accept the rest of the trains that the Greek fleet had and served all of Attica. Minister, this is a serious matter. You say you were unable to change the contract and ensure that neither this service to the inhabitants of the stadium nor even the fire service that exists today in the Greek area. However, it is well known that we are talking here about millions of square meters of sheltered areas, a whole state which will be created and which, of course, will need a transport project. Imagine: Mr Voscoglou says - which you must take seriously, because he has done several studies - that the dead kilometres will increase by 45%. So you understand what the burden will be in the Lefkadium because of the construction that will take place in the Greek with the millions of square meters of sheltered spaces, but also of all the operation that must be done, which will increase the pollutants in the Lefkadio of Attica. We believe it is very important that your decision to change - so to say - this planning and to renegotiate with the company in order to ensure the space. Of course, we strongly disagree with this decision, namely that the entire Greek should be given for such use, just like the government before it had another attitude towards privatization of the Greek. However, there are functions that should be ensured. We believe that one of these functions should be the Greek train station, because it serves the millions of passengers in Attica. With this call, we call on the government to see much more seriously the issue that will be created in the stadium and to redesign the issue of the transport project, which must be in particular the Greek train station, which concerns the operation of the Attica Lecturer itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u9	In addition, I will only speak, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, please be sure that the government wants and shows that it is inherent in the direction of humanism and human-centerism which it has drawn up, particularly in transport, in public transport, in workers and our fellow citizens. That is why we have proposed the unpaid, free movement of sensitive social groups, such as the unemployed and our prevented, etc., by public transport, which has not existed and has been a popular conquest in recent years. It is a fact that we have to deal with a difficult situation. And this difficult situation at first stage is being dealt with in the way I told you. I feel that because we cover labour issues and any additional work needs to be done by workers - and they will be diluted for them - the final result in the transport project will be the same. I think that the report to which you refer has taken as a given that the whole transport would have been made by the Triumph and that is why it adds 45%. It's not exactly the result. Indeed, there will be the addition of a kilometer, that is undeniable, but that will not be exactly so much. I think that our final attempt should be in the direction of finding an area - which we have identified at first level - which must be close to that area on the coastal front and not add a vehicle kilometre so that it can substantially facilitate the transport work of the southern field of Attica. We're in a final consultation. It's not a mature situation to announce it from the House. I think it would be rough on my part and I shouldn't do it. I think that this temporary solution should not be the final holistic solution and we should move towards what you said, namely that the final solution should be close, so that it does not add a vehicle kilometre and facilitate as much as possible the passenger public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much. The debate on the one and only topical question has been concluded. Time is 9.55. We will return to work on the agenda at 10.15 p.m. in accordance with the agenda that has been distributed to you. I would ask the parties' secretaries to inform and send their rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives to the Chamber so that we begin 10.15'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formatic Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Reorganising support structures for primary and secondary education and other provisions'. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Minister of Interior, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Economic Affairs, and the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development and Economics tabled a draft law on 5-6-2018: "Reforming the law of the public limited companies". The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and has been referred to the relevant Standing Committee. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Reorganization of support structures for primary and secondary education and other provisions". The above draft law was characterised by the Government as an urgent one, and the competent Permanent Committee on Formats Affairs accepted by a majority as an emergency, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 5 June 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles, amendments and all. Before I ask whether this House agrees, I would like to remind you that once the bill, parliamentary representatives, rapporteurs and speakers have been qualified by majority vote for 12 minutes. It is only the rapporteurs and speakers who have deutschmarked. The speakers have five minutes. Depending on how many colleagues will be registered, I am referring in particular to fellow Members, the Bureau will see whether it can show a small tolerance for five minutes. I am not planning the meeting because we do not yet know how many colleagues will be present. The inclusion, as we know, will take place electronically as soon as the rapporteur from SYRIZA comes up, Mr Michelis. It will be closed as soon as the New Republic's general rapporteur, Mr Adrianos, comes down from the Step. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u12	The House voted by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of twenty students and students and two teachers attending the 77th Municipal School of Athens. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before Mr Michails speaks, the Minister wants to make some clarifications so that the rapporteurs know them in the first place. As far as I am concerned, they will be submitted later and in writing, but they will also be submitted orally, so that before Mr Michalis takes the step, you will have a picture of the supplements he wishes to make. Minister, I don't give you time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. For four points, I would like to make some clarifications. Firstly, on the matter of the term of office. As you know, we are in favour of an opportunity being given to young candidates to claim positions, as well as to people who acquire an experience in one place being able to transfer it to another. However, for reasons of smooth transition and not surprise, just as we did with the selection of school directors last year, it will be seen as a term of office for all their terms of office until now. We will remain on the two terms of office, but one will be the mandate that has been completed so far, so all the people are given the opportunity to stand and judge. Recording the interview: we had withdrawn it, because it is not happening anywhere else in the public domain. We bring her back, so we don't think we're going to hide anything. The reason why we had withdrawn from it is, apart from the fact that there is no technical difficulty in regional services in transcripting, etc. in all public procedures. In order for there to be no sign of suspicion, as the only space in the public domain, we restore it and we will do everything we can to facilitate the services. The third issue has to do with the PPPs, with the choice of assistants for the schools with the refugees. Here there has been a rich reflection, but also a reflection that has been characterised by a lack of confidence with the state that this will precipitate ways and criteria for permanent appointments. Because we do not want there to be any such shadows and because the debate on the issues of permanent appointments, criteria and procedures for the system of permanent appointments begins, we withdraw this provision precisely for the reason I have said. Finally, for pedagogical competence, this is the educational competence given by the universities. What we have submitted is clear that it has the following procedure: every university department that wants to provide teaching competence draws up the programme of courses which, when children follow them, also receive the certificate of pedagogical competence. This programme is approved by the General Assembly of the Chamber, it goes to the Senate, the Senate approves it, the Ministry and the IPA are not involved at all in this process, and by decision of the Senate is published in the Official Journal of the Government, and that department is able to provide teaching competence. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u14	SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Michelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, entitled "Reorganises support structures for primary and secondary education and other provisions" deals with the existing problem of the need to reorganise structures and administration, as well as the planning and evaluation of educational work in education. Problems arising from the long-term functioning of structures - which I must point out first of all are considered positive, but which have nevertheless been self-evident in their operation - have led to the expected effect on their educational work to be disproportionate to their potential. Very briefly in the preamble to my report, I would like to stand up to and clarify basic educational considerations in which our ideological and political differences are identified, which therefore affect the attitude of each of us, regardless of whether or not this attitude has been overshadowed by procedural issues, mainly by opposition. I will therefore point out that issues such as the content of the detailed programmes, the organisation and administration of education, the opening up of school to society by actions beyond the formal course and the last of all the autonomy of the school unit are key issues in which it is clear that the political forces of the country do not have the same views. These differences have emerged strongly in recent decades, when modern perceptions of the above have attempted to institutionalise, that is to say, the question of our educational system, in the conservative version. Historically in the neo-Greek state education was made up of initial goals, as a result of the then natural needs, which obviously evolved along the way, I will point out, at a slow pace. In a recent speech to the House I pointed out that the increase in compulsory school years, the schooling of girls in high school, the establishment of the primary language at school, have in the past found the strong resistance of the conservative party in the country. "Ideological obsessions of the Left" described them at the time. He accepts them today, not all of them. Two conflicting views were expressed in these key educational issues. At first, education had to be confined to classrooms, its structure had to be based on the hierarchy, strictly structured, according to the classical bureaucratic model of administration, in the terminology of Max Webber. In the same sense, the evaluation had to - and they insist that - be fully personalized and linked to the individual development of the teacher, as in any private enterprise. In the past, she focused mainly on the personality and external activity of the teacher and secondly on his educational work. On the basis of such an evaluation, training staff were selected. That's how we went until the beginning of the 1980s. It is about conservative then, neoliberal, opinion. On the other hand, the modern pedagogical views that have even been put forward by the Middle War by the left-wing intellectuals, then, had limited application, but not today. Since the 1980s, the foundations for a new conception of education began to be laid. In terms of content, the detailed programmes have been changed, and in terms of the educational process, they have started to operate supportive actions of the educational project. I would like to mention, for example: environmental education, health education, vocational guidance, laboratory organisation, computerisation, support centres for pupils' specific educational needs and so on. At the same time, the strictly structured hierarchical model of the administration with executives was questioned and replaced by executives on term of office. In 1982, individual evaluation was challenged and abolished, but nothing was proposed and implemented in modern times. The result of this course was 2013 to return in the form of Presidential Decree 152. Critical issues that have arisen in this process, from 1980 to today, are as follows: Firstly, the relative lack of coordination of the action of these support structures. In other words, each supportive structure designed and implemented a programme, regardless of the other and often not fully adapted to the needs and possible specificities of that school unit. Secondly, the relative ambiguity of the skills of the training staff during the transition from the structured hierarchy to the qualification system. Thirdly, the advice that has gradually been introduced was not linked to the entire educational process, but was occasional. Fourthly, the lack of planning, planning and evaluation of the educational project, per school, was and is evident. Any programming usually resulted from the individual initiative of the managers and not as a collective result of the managers and the club. Finally, it should be pointed out that in the current conditions of intense competition and the visibility of individuality, any collectiveness - hence and sociality - which our students are experientially gaining from the operation of the school unit, but also from the group called'school class', is gradually beginning to perpetuate. Just these modern educational issues are coming to address this bill with the aim and expect to be resolved. Firstly, it organises and guides the existing support structures in a uniform, pedagogical and scientific way. The role of scientific and pedagogical support, organisation, planning and evaluation of these projects comes to the fulfilment of the Regional Educational Planning Centre (ENPI) of each region. This is managed by the College of Educational Project Coordinators: In the twenty-four CECs we have five hundred forty members in total in the thirteen regions of the country. They are educational staff of increased qualifications of school advisors. The latter, who since 1982 had replaced the unfamiliar memory inspectors, have never been equipped with targeted tasks. They were allowed to perform their duties as a rule in their judgment and conscience. I'd be successful sometimes, sometimes limited. With particular diligence, attention and gravity, the issue of socio-psychological support for pupils is addressed, especially those in need of special treatment. In every county, and not only, the seventy-sevenths of a training and advisory support centres are effectively gaining the specific work of the MAGPs throughout the educational area. At the same time, the Centres for Educational Sustainability are now continuing in coordination with the work of the Environmental Education Centres. The schools are organised in flexible cooperation groups under the programming and support of the PESC and the educational, scientific support of the Coordinators of Educational Projects. Educational work is planned and implemented by groups of schools which have autonomy in this regard with the final aim of assessing, in other words, their work and feedback on the basis of their design and programming. In other words, it introduces a modern form of effective evaluation of the educational work away from miserable and traumatic for the educational experiences of the past. This point points out that the recent neoliberal involvement of the school unit is not on the pretext but on the self-management of the school unit's resources. In simple terms, school resources - funding, educational staff - are managed by external factors beyond the manager. That is, in short, market perceptions for school. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the new structure is dealt with in a uniform way in terms of scientific and pedagogical support, the two levels of compulsory education, with characteristics of collectiveity in the design, programming and evaluation of educational work, a collective evaluation aimed at feedback and improvement. It is a key contradiction with the existing inspectors' assessments until 1982, the subsequent failures and, of course, the recent presidential decree of 152 of 2013, which were individual assessments, were primarily referring to the educational, secondary, and very few to the work of the school. Secondly, an important issue facing this draft law is the choice of training officials. Few people have been bothered to consider whether education is something distinct from the other public sector and, of course, from the private sector. The conservative view that was dominant was mainly concerned with control and less with the quality of the educational work. In addition, the evaluation was specific to the personality and action of the training staff rather than the educational work or the overall work of the training unit. That's why the executives remained saved until they were retired. The first steps of selecting teachers with a term of office, beyond the classical hierarchy, have been taken since the beginning of the 1980s; in 1982 the school advisors and in 1986 the school directors and school managers — but without fixed selection rules and without an assessment of their training work, so as not to avoid party interventions. This was the weak point and was strongly criticised, mainly by the educational world. Nowadays, we have had this long experience well-founded to say that: Firstly, the classic bureaucratic hierarchical model of administration that has long been abandoned has rightly been abandoned. However, uniform and stable rules are required, selection criteria for executives to be linked to the nature of the training project. In other words, the management teacher is not disfellowshipped from his educational work. In simple terms, he's not a business manager. He is responsible for management, but with strong characteristics of participation in a training unit and remains a teacher. In addition, the evaluation of the training project and the performance of its specific tasks shall not be omitted in addition to its evaluation. Secondly, the selection criteria for executives are generally identical for all posts, because they are based on three basic pillars in their academic qualifications, administrative and teaching experience and on the overall formation of personality documented through discussion - an interview before a selection board. The term of office of a member of the staff in question may not be within, limited, but with the possibility of moving to another member's post. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the first time since the year 2000 that was set up and in 2002 defined by ministerial decisions, these regional training directors will now be chosen, such as the other executives, to end the continued appeal of those who, from 2002 until now, have appointed the regional directors in their choices - I will note, according to their own law - have avoided amending them to continue to appoint and now come here and blame SYRIZA for his appointment. Question: Do they agree with the amendment proposed by this draft law? I expect to hear their opinion. The evaluation of the training project is the stimulus of planning, planning and implementation. The aim of the project is to feed back and improve the project itself, as a result of the school unit. In addition, this draft law regulates issues of the reconstruction and operation of the EPP, issues of refugee training, administrative arrangements in primary and secondary education, issues of the principle of quality assurance of education, issues of the University and National Examinations Agency and others. To conclude, I would like to point out that this is a draft law which has been fully structured in the current needs of education, which has taken into account the results of an existing experience in conjunction with the current requirements of teaching. Ladies and gentlemen, education necessarily follows social changes. It is, however, the undeniable space for the personalisation and preparation of the integration of young people into society. It is intended to be the area of discussion, even challenging social institutions and structures. This describes its academic role from the age of enlightenment and youth, so we see it from our side. We know that there is another view. That is why we propose measures and institutions that promote democracy, collectiveness and social sensitivity. These cannot work with the teacher as an employee, with the administration of bureaucratic hierarchy, I use the term "Max Webber" and with managers "managers", I use neoliberal terms. Collective planning, programming, implementation and evaluation are required. That is what this draft law seeks. And I call beyond the government and the political forces which in the 1980s were defended and established on the basis of these principles to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 10th Municipal School of St. Anargyra. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to me. I particularly address Members of the government. When adopting urgent bills, you should know that Article 110 is clear. Then there are restrictions on speeches. We cannot vote for bills as urgent, and within this House the bills will normally work. It can't be done. Because I left my colleague, Mr Michalis, for reasons of equality, I will leave 15 minutes for all the rapporteurs and general speakers. From there on, however, thirty-four colleagues have already been written. It is not possible for a person who goes up to the Step to ignore what is going on after, especially for fellow Members whose time is desperately short when the bills are classified as urgent. I would therefore ask you, given that all the speakers and the rapporteurs will have 15 minutes, after leaving Mr Michalis, then we will be as disciplined as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u17	How long will the Members of Parliament have, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u18	Apart from saying so, the Rules of Procedure are clear, it is only five minutes for Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u19	But you are giving the rapporteurs and the special speakers an extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u20	All right, Mr. Kelles, now what are we going to do as a violation? Let's first see how many will be registered. Mr. Ioannis Andrianos has the floor. I put the normal time, but, as I said, all the speakers will have a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to wish the children who are being examined these days. Today the full - time exams are started by the candidate students of the PESA and tomorrow by GELs. I hope, therefore, that good success and good continuity, regardless of the outcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u22	The whole House wishes children good power.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u23	Well, good luck to all children. So today, with the debate in plenary, the bill on support structures, primary and secondary education, a process which in no way provides honour for Parliament. As we stressed in both the first and second readings of the draft law in the Committee on Educational Affairs, the urgency procedure chosen for the drafting of this draft law is in no way justified. In fact, not only is it not justified, but it clearly reveals the central objective of the government, which is not the party decommissioning of the education administration. So we saw the government attempt just a little while ago in the wider public sector where, with photographic selection criteria that you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have introduced, you have made the supposedly de-coupling of the public alibi. The same thing you are trying to do now in education. Try to dismantle useful and time-tested structures, put capable and experienced executives aside to define party guards where you get the most, as you realize every day that you are increasingly going on a runway. The government therefore attempted, in the emergency procedure, to limit the reactions and outcry that would cause this unacceptable piece of legislation. The first version of this bill, a text with fifty one articles, gave it a public consultation on 16 March for just ten days. For two and a half months, the bill was locked in the drawer, waiting for an appropriate juncture. And on Friday, which passed us just before midnight, in view of the pan-Hellenic examinations, traditionally dominated by educational events, a text of mammoth with a hundred thirteen articles with over five hundred pages was tabled, a bill on a huge range of issues for the committee to work out in the urgency process. So we have read all the hard communication issued by the National Disability Confederation - we do not say so, the National Disability Confederation - that you did not have a dialogue with them, that you did not consult on the important issues raised by the bill concerning its members and their families. This, despite the express obligation arising from the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I am tabling this communication in the Minutes of this House in which it takes precedence over the fact that it has not been called into dialogue on matters relating to it, and the state has a duty to call on them, as I have said before me, to do so stems from the United Nations Convention. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Andrianos, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And instead of considering this serious problem, you did not hesitate, Minister, to avoid a little bit further avoiding saying that if something had been done in special education in the country, it was done by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. That's exactly what you said, and I'm telling you from the Minutes of the House. In other words, during the three years, everything that has not been done in special treatment has been done. Your Undersecretary is much more careful. It did not level the work of the previous governments. Not everything starts from the moment you and the ANELs take over the governance. That's why you must be much more careful. This is an unfortunate and irresponsible statement that first of all reveals your own deadlock and, unfortunately, not the only such unfortunate and irresponsible statement we have heard from the government in this process for the last few days. So you have not managed to avoid harsh criticism, reactions and outcry from the educational community and stakeholders. And it couldn't be different for a bill like what we're talking about these days. So let's see what you're trying to do. The first step, therefore, is to migrate and remove existing educational structures and replace them accordingly without serious planning, assessment of consequences and preparation with new hydro-heads more centralised and bureaucratic and doomed to subscribing and subscribing. It is at least ironic that you claim to be institutionalizing decentralized services, since you create over-concentration of managers at the regional and at the education department and transfer decisions away from the school unit and the educational process. You completely abolish the institution of school advisors, an institution that has given education, just because they have supported their evaluation. In fact, you spoke of'magasies' and offended their offer. They didn't set up shops, they didn't ask for anything special. They are therefore calling for them to claim, without obstacles, the positions that you define the framework to be chosen. So you are replacing them from the teachers' coordinators, from the PCIs, and, of course, excluding the current school advisors from claiming a place in the new structure, with tricks such as the anti-constitutional limit of the terms, which you have just tried to correct. Unconstitutionalism, however, still exists, as is the problem. You are baptising this 'positive change' without telling us how the MAGPs can function effectively while the proposed positions for advisory work coordinators, by specialty, will be far less than those for school advisors. A similar merger you are also attempting with ERCs, where you are struggling a heteroclical multitude of uneven administrative, educational, supportive technological, diagnostic and advisory structures, increasing responsibilities, without ensuring the necessary staffing, in a shape of excessively centralized and bureaucratic. You do not answer here how the ERCs will work effectively, when the proposed positions are minimal for the responsibilities you give them. It is only a thousand and sixty-seven positions in seventy-seven when the needs are increasing, when you do not even anticipate the coverage of all school units by Diagnostic Assessment and Support Committees, when you abolish the participation of the pediatrician’s speciality, and in essence, not to mention how problems will be diagnosed when parents, due to ignorance or prejudice, do not address the structures of primary Healthcare. Nor, of course, are you responding to how exactly the gap of the Centre for Informatics and New Technologies that you are abolishing, which was sent by experienced IT and technicians, who effectively served the needs of schools at a minimum cost, will be covered. One pillar, therefore, of your attempt to cut off the administration of education is the abolition of structures and their replacement. The other is, of course, the choice and assessment of executives. And here you make this outrageous: Instead of starting the top choices, i.e. from the regional directors, such as reasonable and fair, and as, after all, the European Commission has been making compulsory from December 2018 for the rest of the administration, you designate them as Chairmans of the Selection Councils. You define, in other words, the presidents who have been appointed by partisan officials, whom again, in an outrageous way, you have excluded from the evaluation some time ago, as a poster. So these party appointed, posters, unevaluated, tell us that they will now judge objectively. And in the question, why are they not judged and evaluated by PSA, the Minister answers: 'But, do you not know that it cannot be done, why do we have pan-Hellenic tests?' And why didn't you bring it earlier? In fact, you said - and you repeated it several times in the committee - that it has been ready since 2017, for eight months. So why are you holding it for two and a half months in the drawer and discussing it for eight months? Didn't you know that pan-Hellenics are starting now that you brought the bill? What if the choice isn't random? So to do their work easier, you set molecules and choice criteria that are cut and sewn to the measures of your micro-party pursuits. Apart from the anti-constitutional limit, which is still in spite of the correction you have made, of the terms of the terms of office, you are paying too much attention to the unstructured interview. Today you told us, of course, that you restored the taped interview. While you had the consultation, you took it off and now you brought it back. This unstructured interview, you can mobilize it with fourteen molecules. You do not recognize as teaching staff such as school advisors and similarize it to low-grade modulation. You are, in other words, giving too much moleculosis to the pre-service against the objective qualifications. And that is only a few of the many points on which I referred more specifically to the debate in the committee. And to fill out the puzzle of idealism and the service of micro-participatory interests, you are exempted from Article 37 by the teachers from the evaluation, which you reserve - as you reserve - only for the managers of education. How do you justify this decision? As the Minister proudly said, you are abolishing the infamous presidential decree 152 "a neoliberal abortion, which provided for a specific and binding rate of redundancies through a punishing evaluation of teachers". This was stated in the statement issued by the Minister of Education against the New Democracy in the communication from our Partisan, Mrs Kerameos. But there is a small problem with this statement. And the problem is - as we have pointed out in committee - that no Presidential Decree 152 speaks of the dismissal of teachers. And not only this, but also Law 4250/2014 expressly refers to an evaluation of civil servants, administrative and not teachers. However, the relevant circular of the Ministry of Administrative Reform explicitly states that the quota in the evaluation did not apply to teachers. So that there is no shadow and that there is no impression that I shall be tabling these documents for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Adrianos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would remind him, however, what the Minister replied when I pointed out to him that there are not all of these in Presidential Decree 152. So the Minister said: "The Presidential Decree 152, although it does not provide for it, has been identified with the evaluation to be made of redundancies. This cannot give a legality to the evaluation. We therefore have to abolish it, and that is why we are abolishing it. Everything else is legal.' This, Minister, does not concern a political truth, but what he thinks, what he feels and what he and his political audience would like to be true, in the language of political science in recent years is called "alternative data". And because the danger to democracy itself is very great - and I believe that you are fully aware of this - I call on you to take this very seriously into account, especially when in recent days another member of the government, the Foreign Minister, at an extremely critical time for our national issues, has been trying to make the truth known. So we in the New Democracy believe in the evaluation of teachers as an essential condition for strengthening quality in education. We believe that evaluation is the most effective tool to encourage and reward good work and creativity, to identify best practices and points where improvement is needed. As I have pointed out in committee, today those teachers who do their job are doing it simply by simplicity, without recognition, without encouragement, with no moral, material and institutional reward. Those who don't do their work well have no motives, no motives to improve them. And that's unfair. And it's unfair for conscientious teachers, it's unfair for those who want to improve and don't know how, it's unfair for their children and families, which you tell them today that we have as a society a tool that ensures better quality in education. And, indeed, it's a tool that proves it. But you choose not to use it, because you allegedly disagree with it in philosophically, when we all know that you are serving a party audience at the expense of education. We're clear. We are committed to restoring the evaluation to both teachers - brands and documentation - without penalising them, with fair and unsatisfactory criteria, as a tool of work, above all for teachers themselves. We are also committed to abolishing the irrational and already judged as unconstitutional, with a sincere decision by the JCC, a provision for the evaluation of the training staff by their subordinates with anonymous questionnaires. In particular, for the directors of school units, Article 40 provides for the completely irrational assessment by the existing ones, without even participating in the evaluation of their existing ones. The provisions of Articles 53 to 70 relating to the Institute for Education Policy are also particularly problematic and find photographic provisions on ‘creative ambiguity’ and on new expenditure, which are not assessed by the General Accounting Office of the State. These provisions provide, inter alia, for the irrational, automatic renewal of the term of office of the members of the Board of Directors, the incomprehensible provision of the possibility of establishing loans by the IMP, the legality of illegal costs, the complete photographic provision of the possibility of a private, paid lawyer, by way of derogation from the existing provisions, general and special experts, to be transferred as if they were a public official to public services and independent authorities of Greece and abroad. The same logic was to ensure the qualifications of permanent teachers seconded to an ETUC by substitutes so that those who have previously been selected to the projects carried out by the universities for the education of refugee children, as well as the provision of Article 85 for the change of composition...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Andriane, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u25	I shall conclude, Mr President. In my dentistry, I'll tell the rest. And since, on many occasions, the Minister says that the New Democracy has not made proposals, we have formulated proposals, Mr. Minister: The axes of greater autonomy of the school units and of integrity, transparency and transparency in the selection of teachers, strengthening and substantial improvement of institutions with a proven contribution, such as school advisors, evaluation everywhere on the basis of fair criteria, without penalising the moral, material and institutional recognition of the role of teachers, the encouragement of quality and creativity everywhere, the further substantial support of special education. That is the context of our proposals, because you are misleadingly saying that there are no proposals from the New Democracy. So these proposals will soon be called upon to implement the New Democracy Government and Mr Mitsotakis. For these reasons, we are voting against this bill, which we believe is not in line with the needs of education, and we are committed to abolishing it, as a matter of priority, when we take responsibility for governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, sixteen students and students and an attendant of the 89th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor for the special speaker from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government's firm position on fast track procedures is unfortunately confirmed, once again. We have repeatedly stressed that there is a need for wide-ranging dialogue on education issues. Currently, they do not contribute to the composition and search for wider convergences. The dialogue on education cannot and should not be undermined and consultation should be cancelled. In education issues, dialogue is needed, and consultation is needed. But it's not enough to be invoked by someone. He must be after him if he believes him. We have already pointed out to you the need to upgrade the functioning of the ERC. This is an instrument that is unaffected and ineffective, which in practice you have canceled after having met only once. Mr President, during the debate in the committee, the question of evaluation, the Presidential Decree 152 and the two-year-old pre-school education was mentioned by the political leadership, which is essentially compulsory today. Let me remind you that the struggles of teachers for open democratic school, with equal opportunities for education for all, have been vindicated by our governments, the PASOK governments. We abolished the inspector, we were the academies with the establishment of university teaching departments. You didn't make the law, 1566/1985. You did not collect an administrative model of education by transferring responsibilities to grade 1 and 2 of local government. You did not create the entire day's schools, the ESDPs, the technical training. You have not opened universities, for all society, regardless of the social and economic surface, and you have not supported the free movement of ideas and university asylum. ‘All of this is the work of a government, the PASOK government. And what about the struggles of the progressive movement and the ideal trade union claims of workers? Tell us until 2004 an evaluation of punishment in education, tell us a legislative regulation on manipulation of the autonomy of the school unit and the functioning of the school club. You won't find it. And you will not find, because we, the Democratic Reconciliation, believe in the open, democratic, multicultural school, because we honor the teacher and recognize his difficult and multifaceted work. We, as a government, had not fired on education, Minister. We recruited and the proportion of students per teacher was a teacher for eighteen students in primary education. Nowadays, with the three-member training committees in charge of training, this proportion is very afraid of reaching a teacher per twenty-five students. Let me remind you of your arrangements for the entire day. How many jobs did she lose from education and how many teachers did she lead to unemployment? For the Democratic Participation, the self-assessment of the school unit and the evaluation of training staff is a time-consuming position. Today, we welcome you in our position and make sure that we support this process, for quality, for improving the educational system. As far as preschool education is concerned, everyone knows our multi-faceted work on the operation of kindergarten. Two years of compulsory pre-school education is a major step, Minister, and a demand for all of us. The concerns were about the possibility of implementing the regulation and it is very important that today self-government has been a valuable asset in this effort. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing one of the greatest economic and social crises in the last century, with the unemployment and the fleeing of young people by thousands abroad, with the well-known Brain Drain, who have left all the bright minds. Four hundred and fifty thousand young people left with degrees, postgraduate, doctorate. Why? Because they couldn't find a job. It is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, for these children to return home again. This generation - I think - will also be the generation that will really change Greece. Because this generation and he can know it and he has it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing one of the greatest economic and social crises in the last century, as I have said. This crisis forces many today to think about what? By discounts in education, discounts in the educational system. We have to make the necessary administrative and cognitive adjustments, why? Because we need an effective, flexible and decentralised system of administration in education. This effort doesn't start today. It started with Law No 1304/1982 and was supplemented by the rules of Law 1566/1985. At that time an administrative organisation was planned, with the central agency, the addresses and offices. With Law No 2817/2000 and Law No 2986/2002 we have a substantial decentralisation step together with the establishment of regional administrations. However, the scope of competence and the essential content in the direction, implementation, evaluation of objectives, development of education policy and adaptation to local specificities are and remain major challenges. We, Minister, have dared and created structures that supported the operation of the school, have helped the day-to-day work of the fighters, have built relations between participation and synergy with institutions and with the privileged movements. Structures that opened the school in society, the neighborhood, the parents. These structures are being abolished today. You cancel institutions expressing educational struggles for democracy, for professional dignity. Let me remind you, Minister, here that the landmark law on open democratic school, Law 1566/1985 of the Government at that time, was designed and written by inspiring teachers who served the institution of the school advisor, an institution which is well documented in a positive manner in the educational sector. Changes are now being proposed, which had to be done in ideal conditions, under dialogue and consultation conditions. They are changes relating to the quality of operation of the school unit and the work of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on education support structures aims to drastically reduce school spending. According to the bill, PIKs, head of education and school advisors are being abolished. In their place, regional educational planning centres are set up, PCIs and, of course, PESIs are set up at regional level. The MAGP, as described in the draft law, lacks basic institutional responsibilities that school advisors currently have. First of all, it is subordinated, since the number of young managers, training coordinators, is now falling by 40% compared to the current number of school advisors, from the eight hundred thirty-five to the five hundred forty. At management level, critical support structures such as CEDEFOP, youth advisory stations, KISYP and KEPLENET are merged and the advisory support centres are established, the KISSYs, which will be common to both levels of education. The situation, Minister, in the form of special education is even more critical. CEDEFOPs and the necessary diagnosing of pupils with special educational needs are abolished. This process will now be carried out by institutions of education. This, Minister, will have tragic consequences for children's pupils and families with special educational needs. The same logic of shrinking is seen in the development of the JRCs, environmental education centres. These are renamed at sustainability education centres. They will incorporate the responsibilities of environmental education, health education and cultural issues. Here will be created, that is, a lobster, all together! Gentlemen of the Government, may I remind you that for the selection of officials in education by 2015 we had a law or a presidential decree for each government service. From 2015 until today this is the fourth law you bring for choices. I mean, three and a half years, three Ministers and three and a half years, four laws! The conclusions of yours. Minister, if this procedure is not an obsession with the training staff, then what is it? What's her importance? Law 3848/2010 was, as a general rule, the law with the most objective choices, a law that had been voted on - to remind me - of the two-thirds of Parliament. That law went to the basket. L.3848 was talking about the structured interview, the topic bank, the prestige councils, statements of preference after the completion of the procedures. You ask us what we have to propose for the selection system. We are answering you: Three years now Mr.3848/2010, with the necessary minor improvements, is a stable benchmark for us. I would remind you that this law provides for the acquisition of a certificate of administrative and guiding competence by the NRAs. A process that would definitively solve the question of evaluation of personality, foreign language competence and competence in the exercise of management. We couldn't generalize, even though we started it. You people, of course, instead of going on with it, have done away with it. Were you involved in the interview, you decentralized the prestige councils and presented to us by No.4327/2015 a proposal which was foreseen? It actually provided for the election of training officials. So, what do we see here? We see a molecule, which is a tire. And elastic is the modulation of the teaching service. One pending is the mobilisation of scientific qualifications and the interview of a multi-tool in the hands of the upcoming selection councils. Why the structured interview, the theme bank? Why do preference statements before the interview? These are all questions. Let me remind you that it was a arrangement that, with our own intervention, you changed to the previous law, to Law 4473/2017, for the options. Minister, we have set our red lines, such as: Selection vertically, starting from regional directors, training directors, school advisors and school units. And that, of course, will be possible for mobility. Secondly, we have said prestige councils with the participation of the AACC and the EMCDDA. Thirdly, we said a structured interview. Today, you said you were actually reintroducing the recording. We welcome that. But it would be very important, Mr Minister, to bring the matter bank back. Of course, I am telling you, of course, that it is a red line to measure a teaching service for all officials on duty, because when they were called upon to take a position of responsibility with a term of office, they knew that the time to stay in this post would be of the teaching service. We are in retrospectively coming to annul their efforts, of course, and their teaching service, which was in a position, as I have said, of terminology, as well as transitionism in terms of terms and only for the same position. Minister, on the first day of the debate on your bill we said that we will vote against this bill, a bill that had in the consultation fifty-two articles. He ended up coming to the debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media with a hundred and fourteen articles. We asked you to take back the articles, which were not in the consultation, and we also put you in the red lines that we thought should be brought in for the sake of education. You did not, so we voted against the bill at first. Minister, the area of education is a place of consultation and dialogue, as I have said before. We call on you, even now, to accept our proposals to stop the ramp, and not to pass a fifth bill which will come to Parliament for discussion and vote by the Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Antony Gregos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. We also denounced the urgency procedure in this bill to the committee. And we said that it is urgent - not to say urgent - that the unacceptable institution of university asylum, of this asylum of terrorists and criminals should finally be abolished at all university institutions. It is an institution that has no value, and all it provides is asylum to terrorists and murderers. It was also denounced by the institutions that too many articles in the bill did not go into consultation. It is also indicative of the government's democratic function! We are dealing with an express bill, which, without any reason, is being tabled - as we have said - by the urgency procedure. Experts in distortion and stifling rulers claim that the bill was put in consultation. However, the truth is that sixty articles were added without consultation, which, of course, are commemorative requirements. The form of political indiscriminateness and indiscriminate amoralism is also - and indeed, at high tones - that the draft law is contrary to the punishing treatment of evaluation, and as an antidote they bring self-assessment. Of course, self-assessment is no serious solution, as a kind of exchange of gratitude is achieved without an assessment of the teacher. This draft law had to be withdrawn. It imposes a suffocating control and is, in fact, a raw intervention by the government in the administration, but also in the education system itself. It is - we would say - a diversion from which the educational system will take many years to come back. The image of Greek education is demoralizing and demoralized by this draft law. School advisors are being expelled, as, as Mr Gavroglou said, they are not being controlled. Many of the school manuals are unscientific, reproduce the doctrine of political Marxism and are in line with the requirements of new times and globalisation. The students are overcrowded in every class, which makes learning process a delusion. We, our position is that we should dismantle school classes, become flexible classes and students should not exceed 20. It is only in this way that the question of the congestion of classes will be brought under control and that all the problems arising there from it will be dealt with. We also propose direct communication of students and teachers, a warmer climate for building confidence relationships and developing a directity. Schools are merged, so education is crushed. The CEDEFOPs are being abolished because they say they did not meet the requirements, but the CEDEFOPs are being upgraded, which will be invited to meet a wide range of needs, which, of course, is not possible in practice. All of these measures are reminiscent of oak practices, they are foot measures and patches, so that the Memorandum partners can of course be satisfied. The integration of all support structures in primary and secondary education has resulted in the construction of a centralised and rigid system, which, of course, is difficult to carry out its work and meet the needs that are emerging. The imperfections, derogations and errors must be improved through a thorough evaluation process rather than the abolition of structures and the establishment of others. For this assessment of existing structures, it was mainly necessary to ask the school units and the teachers to whom the support structures are addressed. But that is unfortunately not the case. With regard to MAGPs, how can they do their work remotely - we told the committee - when the government itself charges mistakes to school advisors? How can the twenty-four MAGPs function when the scheduled posts for training project coordinators by specialisation will be far less than those of school advisors? It's gonna be five hundred forty of eight hundred ten. So each coordinator should support a much larger number of school units. The placement of coordinators in the regional directorates rather than in the training directorates reinforces centralisation and encourages control and intervention to the school units. As for the structures of refugees, the provisions are unacceptable. When the educational system is ill, there is a subsistence and the necessary funds are made available to upgrade and reorganise education, all of a sudden, as by magic, the PICs are founded to assist an vague and alien mass of so-called "lathroids", i.e. children of illegal immigrants. Ultimately, this aims to integrate them into Greek society. It is, however, truly unbelievable that in every bill, you are bringing in provisions concerning illegal immigrants - whatever bill that may be. To return to the issue of PPPs, Refugee Refugee Training infrastructures are being established to integrate children of illegal immigrants into the educational system of the country. Here, then, is the point that reveals the SYRIZA's obsession with immigrants and illegal immigrants and anything from abroad. It is not possible to incorporate illegal immigrants in a European country like Greece, because they are people from African and Asian countries who have grown up with different values and customs, different religion and language. Therefore, their integration is impossible and acts against the indigenous population. Let us not forget that in addition to illegal immigration there has also been an outbreak of forgotten diseases in Europe. Also, it is important to note that the SYRIZA government in many articles provides for teaching posts for Muslim religion teachers. In fact, the Greek state will pay with the money of the taxpayer Greek teachers who will tell the Greek children of Thrace that they are Turkish children, as was recently the case at a school in Thrace, a Muslim MP of SYRIZA. It is good to add that the government with this bill multiplys bureaucracy in the public sector, this time in the field of education, creating thousands of different structures, which in fact do not perform any specific function. This is therefore clearly unacceptable in all respects, a bill at national, educational and administrative level. I shall refer to some provisions relating to special education. The proposed draft law refers to the abolition of structures and the creation of new ones, for staffing and also for heads of staff. Of all these proposed provisions, however, questions arise: Parents who have an appointment in a few days will go to the CSY and who will find there to serve them? Will he have time to place staff and chiefs? Even if the staff remain the same as the existing one from the previous structure, what will happen to the heads of staff? Who will be head of and sign up to the recommendations of the tripartite committees for parents to get licences and go to special schools? Parents should be re-examined in order to examine their children. In this chaos created by SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence and special treatment, seeking to place the head of her choice and the creation of a party army there, the only ones who really are affected are the students and parents, but also the managers of special school units, who will once again be invited to carry the cross of specificity at the moment when the entries for the new school year begin. Provision should also be added to the draft law on the specificity of the transfer of pupils who are attending special treatment units. In particular, the problem is identified in the new platform in which the students concerned are registered by the managers of all schools, which are received by the relevant region in order to open a student transfer competition as a whole, using those data. However, special care and provision should be made for the creation of a separate school-learning platform, which are studying special treatment units, in order to enable them to serve separately according to their needs, as they cannot in many cases use public transport, such as other pupils. Particular care is also required for pupils who are in the special treatment unit who have been introduced into the region's transport programme, but the competition in question is being declared barren - we have said so in the committee - because the professional carrier concerned does not appear, so that these students cannot go to the school unit. These remarks concern, in particular, Article 51 and others, to which I shall refer later. Sadly, in all this session there is no provision for providing special assistant staff personalised to students with specialists in the special public high schools. It would really provide work for the relevant Ministry, if he would put aside the positions of directors and heads and would engage in the parents who do not write, but do not send their children to the special public high schools every year, because they do not have the financial capacity to pay a private attendant. For example, the parents of epilepsy students need to be given individual special assistants in order to be able to teach their children in special public schools, because without individual assistants, these students are in danger. It is therefore possible for ERCFs to be able to introduce individual special assistant staff to these categories of students who are completely absent from school life. The Director of the Special Public School shall not be entitled to any auxiliary staff. Article 90 - concerns the same provisions - it requires an analysis of how the infringements of non-formal education bodies are costed. What type of mathematical formula does it calculate, for example, that a non-formal education body, which misleads consumers, will a fine of EUR 3 000, will be imposed? This non-formal education body may have acquired five hundred students through misleading advertising. If a fine is imposed on him of three thousand euros, when this body earns 150,000 euros, displaying false services, then the rest of them are actually being extinguished to follow the same practice. Approximately the same applies to other registered infringements. I will make a comment on Rule 103. The proposed provision gives an extension to the staff contracts of the Hellenic Open University. We're not going to vote for this. Article 105 applies to teaching licences in schools, centres of foreign languages and at home-leaving licences. This provision is contained in Memorandum 3. We had said before that this bill, like the rest, is purely memorandum commitments and it is one of the reasons why we are voting against this. We want to say that as Golden Dawn we want and fight for a national education worthy of our people, who has a huge history. To give back the credit and congratulations to those parents and children - I saw too many children - participated in our condolences for Macedonia. We will be here to defend our history, our culture, the sacred name of our Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u30	The reason is the special speaker from the JRC, Mr Emmanuel Syntakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. For the Communist Party of Greece the main objective of the government in this draft law is not to support school and educational education, neither the scientific and pedagogical upgrading of the educational process, nor the realisation of the vision of a public, democratic and cooperative school, as stated in the explanatory statement. The provisions of the draft law have nothing to do with the absolute priorities for supporting education, such as thousands of permanent appointments, upgrading of infrastructure, serious changes in the detailed programmes, schoolbooks, support measures for the weakest pupils, strengthening of special education and training. The government's reactionary anti-educational design prepares the way for new, deeper and reactive overhauls of school's content and function in the objectives of education. This is a design similar to those of the New Democracy and PASOK earlier, based on the strategy of the European Union, the OECD, BSE and markets reports, direct measures, attachment of the content of knowledge of education work, teachers and pupils to the needs of the profitability of business groups, capitalist growth in general for cheap labour, adaptation to market flexibility, lifelong learning. Consequently, this draft law, along with all other modernising reformist alleged interventions, prepares the ground to build the autonomous class school of the market. The differentiated school must respond, as stated in the explanatory statement, to the heterogeneity of the needs of the pupils. None - but none! It does not relate to the basic social need today, which is to ensure a uniform, free, integrated and universal character of general education in the content, structure and function of all children equally, without class discrimination. The class school not only remains classic, but the government is also trying to load the deadlocks of anti-grass policy and school problems on the teachers, students and parents themselves. This is a deeply reactionary conception. Strengthening the so-called social role of the school is nothing more than strengthening the school's class role in society, since it is in its image and likeness. Ladies and gentlemen, the new structures provided for in the draft law, the RECFs and the JECs will, in our opinion, play - the role of strengthening the class-differentiated market school, while the selection of managers who will frame these mechanisms will be on the basis of a decisive criterion if they accept to serve faithfully the new market school. The RECF will essentially play a role in the development of education policy for small Ministries of Education, which will play a key role in the organisation and promotion of the evaluation process, in the control of new structures up to the level of the school. They will also work as mechanisms for manipulating teachers in order to serve the new school of learning, sponsors, measurable indicators of business groups, which will control and shape the contents of knowledge, the detailed programmes, the structure and appropriately finance or co-finance their school units and differentiated actions. The assessment of structures, staff and school units will be carried out on this basis. Evaluation - valuation is directly linked to the content of the educational work and the categorisation of schools, in order to distinguish the educational and school units that best promote the values of entrepreneurial spirit and competition, their association with enterprises, chambers, local administration, the ability to assign key functions, such as cleanliness, safekeeping and others, in any form of business activity, private or cooperative, such as NGOs, contractors, the COMPs and any nuts. The abolition of Presidential Decree 152 and of Law 3848, remains an empty letter. The same forecasts and provisions return to the body of the draft law through the evaluation process of the training staff and the evaluation process of the school unit's training work. In the selection of officials, the draft law incorporates all the legislative framework of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. The laws of Mitsotakis, Diamantopoulou and Arvanitopoulos live and reign. The criteria for selecting managers will not only relate to the scientific adequacy and service path of each candidate, but also to the personality and general establishment of the candidate. These include accepting and supporting this policy. In this context, the "sinner" interview is part of a "sinner" interview. The Quality Assurance and Certification Authority in primary and secondary education is not only abolished but is upgraded by developing an integrated IT system and databases of the evaluation of the educational system, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has never concealed either as Opposition or as a government that it is in favour of promoting evaluation, namely a reactionary state control at the work of teachers and school life. It goes far beyond the fact that in capitalism evaluation is one. There are no two kinds, there are no good and bad in terms of content and pursuits. It may change in forms, but in the end when we talk about evaluation within this system, namely, the capitalist economy, we are talking about reactionary and suffocating state control in education and teachers, with the aim of adapting education to the requirements of business groups more quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to four more important aspects of the draft law. Firstly, the bill comes to radically change the landscape in special education, at the expense of children with special educational needs. It abolishes CEDEFOPs, which are assimilated to CEDEFOPs, along with other services that are not related to special education, such as CEDEFOPs and youth advisory stations, apparently serving the policy of saving resources and personnel. This will be at the expense of special education, which is a complex pedagogical intervention, which needs scientific and at the same time personalised support for children with special educational needs and therefore requires multiple costs, priority and upgraded benefits. The question raised and reasonable is: Have the CEDs responded to their complex and demanding work? Definitely their function is defective and consistent with the general picture of special education and training. In addition to any scientific discussion or diagnosing of the content, not both of the diagnoses, but also of which a school framework is suitable for the child with special educational needs, the CEDEFOP, in its formation, has ensured - as far as possible - that which is a scientific prerequisite for the establishment of a training policy in the field of special education and intervention: consultation. This role is the basis for their further upgrading and extension, rather than their abolition, because in order to define the relevant educational policy in the field of special education, the appointment of such specific training staff, special assistant, special scientific, the first basic scientific step is the diagnosis and registration of children in need of special support. In addition, in order to establish new structures of education, needs first of all to identify and record needs. If you take into account all the additional responsibilities assigned to them, you understand the extent of the degradation of the special treatment. In addition, the positions recommended shall be abolished, on the pretext of the medicalization of the pedagogical process, by the specificity of the pediatrician. In essence, the interdisciplinary gaze is abolished to approach the whole and as objectively and globally as possible the specific difficulty. By abolishing the specialty of the pediatrician, you remove the solid ground to thrive on special teaching and force parents to put a deep hand in the pocket to address the private consultancy centers and to pay private service anymore. In addition, through the bill, a bunch of new prerequisites are set up to reach a parent with his child at the ERCY and finally get the evaluative descriptive report. So, in order for the parent to apply, he should decide on a documented recommendation from the school club, after proving that he has taken all the necessary measures, he has implemented short-term programs, experimented with the child and has no effect. What does that mean? The scientific prerequisite, the beginning of special pedagogical intervention, the evaluation report which is not even an opinion, is moved for the ultimate future with the valuable time to run at the expense of the child. In fact, the tutor in charge of communication with the KESY can be of special treatment, but if he does not exist, he will take over a teacher in general. How is it possible in general schools where the departments can be twenty-five, which are lost in teaching hours, why are the gaps not being covered with teachers' appointments and there are huge gaps in special education, being implemented short-term special education programmes with any teacher who is abundant? The JRC, ladies and gentlemen, strives strongly for the right to distinguish between a child with special educational needs. It is a measure of progress in society the degree of upgraded scientifically distinctive support for these children. It is scientifically modern to have a universal public and free early diagnosis and intervention at the time of child's birth. It is necessary to draw up a single scientific programme in the early stages of pre-school age and throughout the school years setting out the general objectives and objectives and, at the same time, within this framework, the necessary specialisation per child's case will be carried out. As I do not have time to talk about the CRLs and the school teams - I shall refer to my dentistry - I shall speak in relation to the education of the applicants in the fourth part of the bill. Here, indeed, the government has finished it. Since 2015, we have had massive arrivals in our country. Third school year and the question of applicants has not been addressed. What you say is away from years of light from the real educational teachers - and so on - the needs of the applicants. We wonder what has happened with the Committee set up by the Ministry of Education, Mr. Friends, I think. Is there? Did it work? If it worked, what was her finding? The articles of the draft law focus on the central administrative structure and reception structures for the training of applicants. There is no other measure concerning the main, i.e. the normal schools in which the great mass of refugees is directed, which was also a government commitment. This is reflected in the absence of any reference to important issues such as the content of the education of these children, the finalisation of the sections from the summer when there is a constant flow of refugees, the non-recognition of the identification of the educational needs for additionally differentiated sections that are mainly legitimate about language learning, the non-timely taking of measures for the reception classes, the intake of psychologists, interpreters, translators and all the necessary human resources to support these pupils, the lack of measures through public health structures - vaccines, examinations - the lack of a second educational instruction in order to support a differentiated personalised learning, the total lack of books, special material, specific flexibilities, the non-safety of educational interventions by NGOs in the functioning of the school as well as the feeding of these children. The JRC will vote'residences' in all these articles on applicants other than Article 80, which deals with the recruitment of alternates outside the normal tables, where we vote 'in proportion'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u32	We withdrew that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen - to close - the third memorandum that all parties voted clearly puts changes in education to be checked on the basis of OECD reports. You have to tell the truth. You are exposed when you say that you restored normality in schools, because people's families know what the reality is that children are experiencing in schools. The JRC does not deal with any changes which have been awkward, nor do they have any previous times. Criticism shows us in front of the future. That is why we can also answer today with requests and combat objectives for exclusively public free education for all children, for a school that forms, educates and does not exterminate, for a single 12-year and two-year-old compulsory pre-school education for all children, for modern detailed programmes and teaching content, which will promote general scientific knowledge and not sterile skills, for the abolition of business activity in education, for permanent and stable work for all with mass, permanent appointments of teachers, for the equilibrium of the rights of substitutes with permanent ones. Only the JRC has a clear position. Because the proposal for a single 12-year-old modern school of general education is realistic, necessary and pioneering, is a progressive response to the needs of the people. As progressive and parallel revolutionary is the struggle for a radically different society where the criterion will be the full satisfaction of modern needs for work, education, health, life with rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Synciergi, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u35	Only socialism, ladies and gentlemen, can offer these. For this society, the JRC is fighting against your compromise with the rotten capitalism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I should like to invoke your medical capacity and ask that the sound be lowered, because we will all be damaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u37	I don't think medicine is necessary, I agree with you. It's very sensitive to the new system and it sounds better when the tone is lower. We proceed with Mr. Katsikis as a special speaker from the Independent Greeks. I request that you speak a little further than the microphones and lower voices. Sounds better. And that makes the speech more understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, coming to the plenary today, following the previous meetings, I think we have all seen in depth the issues arising from the revision of primary and secondary education structures. These are issues which call for the need to develop educational structures, leading to a modern digital environment which both knowledge and information now succeeds rapidly. The Ministry of Education, by charging the debt stemming from its institutional role, did not hesitate to propose solutions that would reform the field of service structures, with a view to aligning with tomorrow's challenges and in view of the optimal performance of the work offered by the training staff. This is the global approach which, in my opinion, we should constantly bear in mind. It shouldn't cause us fear. We have to agree that the fundamental philosophy of the changes proposed today to be voted on lies in the introduction of new provisions aimed at structural transformation of the educational environment in order to shield the function of training staff as much as possible. Today's draft law continues to implement structural changes which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has undertaken to promote, in the context of essential education reforms. The constant daily life of Greek citizens since 2009 has given serious consequences to the social life of all of us. In an environment, therefore, where its main features are liquidity and uncertainty, there is a need to redesign the educational structures of the country. Enhancing the pillar of education is now a prerequisite - to use a word that is nowadays more frequent than the 'good day' - to try to rationalise and strengthen the public nature of education with a view to improving the quality and effectiveness of the educational work. The regional educational planning set out in this draft law and the gradual decentralisation of the educational system leads to the strengthening of the process of involving all the key factors in education in its organisation and administration. The creation of the Regional Educational Planning Centres, covering the whole of the country, ensures the necessary collective and interdisciplinary cooperation and coordinates actions at regional level. The heterogeneity of needs and the diversity of students' interests explains the need to create the Educational and Advisory Support Centres, with the particularly important task of supporting school units and ensuring equal access for all pupils to education. At the vulnerability of the present economic situation and the attempt to combat unemployment, these centres' competence to provide advisory services in matters of vocational guidance and association of education with the labour market makes their function extremely supportive not only for the school community, but for the social community as a whole. This draft law includes, among other things, provisions which institutionalise the existence of a second head of municipal schools with a large number of pupils, an increase in the allowance of head and fewer primary schools and kindergartens, while putting an end to the four-year school of night-schools, turning it into three-year-olds. The complexity of modern educational needs requires the evolution of the institution of school advisors, as the exercise of scientific and pedagogical support they provide should be carried out in a multidisciplinary and cooperative manner, in line with ongoing developments in the field of teaching. Their response, however, does not suit the way and the seriousness that the political leadership of the Ministry of Education manages the staff of education. The assessment of the project they provided is a sine qua non term for their exploitation or not. Their exclusion from claiming positions of responsibility of the same or higher level as the arbitrary clause of the two terms is the element of surprise and punishment. The criteria for accepting any kind of reform is always to ensure a smooth transition from one situation to another. Violent changes have never benefited anyone. These people should therefore be given the opportunity to demand their re-election, without conditions and conditions, in this first application. And I hope, Minister, that their extremism will not be invented as a solution in another region in order to be candidates, because in today's economic circumstances this is a punishment measure! I am therefore referring again to the objection I raised about the term of office of training officials as defined in the third paragraph of Article 30. I would, of course, remind you that this provision prohibits third-time staff from being nominated by officials who, under Article 21(2), are considered to be the same. Of course, this morning, I was informed, Minister, that you have given a certain amount of a solution and satisfied to some extent also our objection, saying that previous terms will be considered as one and after the application of this legislation, they will have the right to another term. I continue by saying that with Article 21(2) - what we have said to the committees and repeat today - regarding the positions which are regarded as similar, we repeat that they are not similar, as is indicated by the legislation itself, which in Article 38(1)(c) provides that the coordinators of training work, i.e. the current school advisors, are assessed by the regional training director. What you also mentioned at the beginning of today's sitting was the first reason for not taking into account retrospective terms of these people as similar to each other, so that they would fall - if I understood correctly - into the prohibition of two terms of reference in each nomination. In other words, it should start if this is finally prejudicial to you, Mr Gavroglou, after the vote on this draft law. I mean, if I understood correctly, for his candidacy in other places, two terms will not be considered earlier, but they will have the right, from the legislature, to have completed two terms without any netting with positions of the past. That's what I collected. If that is the case, the positions are not regarded as similar in order to fall under retrospective terms, which are counted as terminology which will be offset in order not to have two but one, as they will have as school advisors. As Independent Greeks, of course, we welcome every effort to redesign structures, which will help address the malfunctions of education and promote a flexible model in response to the demands of every modern society. Such planning is also the proposal to change the way in which training staff are assessed, which will be called upon to run the new structures. We are working on establishing a maximum duration of the selected term of office to ensure the continuous feedback of executives to the act of education. However, in order not to have any element of surprise, this should be denied retroactiveness - such as any rule of law - and its scope to begin with the date of publication in the Official Journal of the Government of this legislation. Another point which one might say is that it conceals a deceptive element, I would say, to these executives is their virtually non-incident. The work of the school advisors is well related to the school unit and therefore their term of office should be recognised as a teaching service and their mobilisation should not differ from that of the school unit. I am therefore returning to the mobilisation of administrative experience as defined in Article 24(3)(a) but also to the mobilisation of the teaching experience, as defined in paragraph 3(b) of that Article. Mr Minister, we believe that it should be added to the mobilisation of administrative experience and to the case of directors of regional, training centres with one unit per year and up to a maximum of four. Moreover, as moleculosis of teaching experience is different for school advisors than for school teachers, we propose that they be moleculated at least equally. Continuing, I would like again to quote specific provisions on which I called on the Ministry of Education's leadership to show proper political will and to review the scope for legislative improvements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will try to refer to codified and, as far as possible, concisely for the sake of an economy of time: In Article 2(1)(f) we propose adding the long-term sick leave of teachers who suffer from incompetent or incurable diseases to the licences considered as a teaching service which includes childbirth, pregnancies and childbirth leave. In addition, we call for the Centres for Information and New Technologies to be maintained and not for what is provided for in Article 14. With regard to Article 22 and paragraph 3, we propose that the criterion of foreign language should be removed as a prerequisite for the selection of a training project coordinator, while, for paragraph 9(b), we ask the Ministry to clarify two points: first, to determine whether this exemption is a result of an administrative measure or of a disciplinary measure, as the time that such penalty is maintained in the official's staff records in this case differs. Secondly, the time allowed by the provisions of an overriding law, such as the Staff Code, for a period of two years, is denied the right to apply for a candidate. Article 86(15) of the Staff Code provides for a period of two years. Furthermore, with regard to the submission of a declaration of preference for the placement of candidates in a specific position, as set out in paragraph 4 of Article 27, we call and expect your reply to be submitted, Minister, after completion of the ranking tables, on the basis of the measurable criteria and before the interview procedure. In conclusion, I could not omit Article 80, in particular paragraph 1 and paragraph 4 thereof, according to which pre-services for the training of refugee children appear to have a special weight greater than other assistant teachers. No one disagrees with the work of this...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Katsiki, you weren't here. Article 80 has been withdrawn by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u40	At the beginning of the meeting, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u41	He made some announcements at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u42	Oh, you withdrew it for this distinction between those who serve in the refugee structures and others...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u43	So finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u44	Good. Thank you very much, Mr President. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, most of the proposed organisational interventions and changes, with the exception of the few points of the draft law being passed, are considered to be in the right direction within the framework of a comprehensive programming of structural action aimed at resolving long-term issues of the educational community. The current draft law proposes fundamental and substantial changes in the organisation and staffing of public services of primary and secondary education, which most of them were approached with a sense of responsibility towards the whole educational community. The Independent Greeks voted in favour of the principle and of the articles under the pretext that a number of our objections will be taken into account - already taken of a large part and thank you - from the Ministry of Education and will confirm our constructive assistance in parliamentary dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u45	The special speaker from Potami, George Mavrotas, has the floor. George, she didn't make it this year. You guys ran into Olympics for the first time. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u46	Yeah. And Olympiacos is also going for Champions League these days. Take care of him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u47	Go on, wish him "good luck".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u48	Good luck with Olympiacos. Good luck to the children who start their pan-Hellenic tests today and tomorrow - a hundred and four thousand children - including my young son. Good luck to them! So we are talking today about the draft law on the reorganisation of education structures and about the disorganization of education structures and parliamentary procedures. This is a bill that came to the thieves: at 22.20pm on Friday night to be discussed from Monday to yesterday in committee. Instead of apologizing for these unacceptable parliamentary procedures, the Minister tried to come out and said he was eight months away and he was talking about it with the institutions. What? Only fifty articles on education structures, the choices of managers, which have also changed in their latest form. However, even so, the Ministry discusses eight months outside the House with the various institutions and only three days in the House with the parties. The Minister then wonders why we are protesting when in the opposition the SYRIZA did not let the meeting end. We heard the agencies yesterday. Most critics, mostly in agreement with what we have said. That, in other words, you are making changes to the structures of education in a system that has never been evaluated, without any study on which to rely, more as an exercise on paper with a few revansism and customerism. Even now we are overwhelmed by emails, operators' memos, with proposed changes, corrections, omissions, injustices, the result of this accelerated process. Unfortunately, you have chosen a very inappropriate procedure for a very critical bill. The Minister, in fact, proudly said twice - three times to the committees that the coup is based on the conclusions of OLEME and ILO 1999, which were in the drawers last century. And the question is, why did you go so back? You have had in your drawer the findings of Mr. Liakou, since May 2016 - on Mr. Phil, if I am not cheating - which says almost the opposite of what you are doing today. So why do you have the views of trade unions rather than scientists? Besides, if I remember correctly, you were, Minister, a member of this scientific group. I will begin with the choices of managers, who have singled out the interest, particularly with regard to school advisors who are now being abolished and made coordinators of training work. I will repeat a few questions I have asked in the committees, which the Minister avoided answering, and he was content to oppose opposition to opposition to the opposition more. First and foremost: the government is claiming to abolish the appointment of regional directors, as was the case with the respective government - as took place in PASOK, as well as with SYRIZA lately - and will now openly proclaim the positions. Bravo! We to hit squirrels on this, as long as you start the options there and not leave them for the end, since your own post-mortem regional managers have chosen all of the bottom executives. This is not excavation. It's exactly the opposite, it's "Counterfeiting", with "K" capital. And if you want to disprove me, start the crises from the regional directors. I didn't see you mention it in the corrections you made in the bill. Next question: is it possible for all training managers, regional managers, training managers, training coordinators, criteria for all to be the same and mobilisation? You heard them say that and many in the audience. My feeling is that you have not studied the matter sufficiently, or do you think it is 'all for everything'? An administrative perception unstable, not to say dangerous. Is it also possible when we choose training managers, whose main task will be for administrative responsibilities, yet the administrative experience to get a maximum of four molecules, while the teaching to get ten molecules? Is it also possible to molecule in the criteria to be so suffocatingly entangled and limited that specific groups are favoured and affected? For that reason, we have given you a concrete suggestion of molecules that we have prevented and prepared in these fast track procedures a fairer and more effective, in our view. We are therefore not ashamed to make proposals, Mr Minister, as you said in committee. You're probably embarrassed to accept them. I did not hear you accept any of the changes we made to moleculosis, unless something emerges during the meeting. So don't spill crocodile tears that we don't make suggestions. It's hypocritical of you. What, however, can we talk about the parliamentary procedures that you have chosen in ten hours? That is why we protest because you are effectively canceling us and these debates cannot be held on secret dates after the meetings. I explained the other day that it is fair to have a time credit for those school advisors speaking foreign languages, but they do not have a certificate of language. Do not rule out, give them some time. For the terms - I heard you this morning - the measure is suspended in the first application. Obviously, this is because it also indicates the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, but we still consider the measure to be wrong despite the temporary aspirin you are giving. Restriction of terms is a horizontal measure that proves the failure of the system. A horizontal cutter, so that you don't get into trouble applying and keeping a proper evaluation. In conclusion to the question of school advisors who have sold little - too much interest in the bill, should school advisors be lifelong? Of course not. A good school counselor after six years must change it? Of course not again. What, then, is the key to balance the system? What you're avoiding, like the devil, the evaluation. So, not in a safe place, not a closed club, the body of school counsellors, but no horizontal measures on the right and wrong to simply renew the fleet with ships that will have your own flag. Because you spoke yesterday and about'magasies', we - know - resist education and'magasies' and'magasers'. So let's go on the subject of the evaluation of teachers. An evaluation system for training staff shall be introduced by Articles 37 to 42. Just for training executives? Not for the teachers' fighters in the classrooms? Evaluation of the relocations rather than the first line? I mean, go blindly, don't know if they're doing their job well, not reward, not have motive? The President of OLEME said the day before yesterday to the bodies that, in a period of memoranda, individual evaluation is aimed at wage establishment, availability and redundancies. To wait, that is to say, in August, when, as you say, we are going to leave the memoranda to see a proper evaluation of teachers. Because I have heard you repeatedly say 'because the state does not give them what it needs, how it wants to assess them', the same can be said by each Minister, because it does not give its officials exactly anywhere the state does. But especially in education, you should know that it is not the state that asks for evaluation, but society. So leave this candy and say that you don't do an evaluation because the colonial attitudes of your environment do not want it to be explained and not to be mocked. The point is that you want to support the dreadful contributions to evaluation, so you have turned it into a bogeyman, projecting it as a punishment tool and not as a incentive tool. This, of course, suits you in your political account, in your controversy with the New Democracy, but - it does not suit the education which, without assessment of all its grades, cannot go any further. Besides, how would you improve something if you didn't count it first? So you don't have anything else to give the teachers, and what are you doing? You maintain fear of evaluation, so that you then come as a patterul to protect them from it. Let us move on to the provisions concerning the EPP. While it is assumed that institutional upgrading and reorganisation of a scientific body are sought in order to carry out an expanded work in a modern context, the introduced arrangements manage to give it a public service character, with which it has a pathetic character. Staff shall be carried out primarily by posting from the public sector. What should we put on first? Changes in scientific staff with a 15-year increase in the number of consultants who are now exclusively resulting from secondments? To meet the administrative needs of eighty seconded teachers? Will anyone ever be in class, or are we only concerned about school advisors returning to their classroom, home, as we heard the other day, but now you're opening the door wide open to others, obviously yours? "It was fair, it was done." Let's go to Article 85 for Sivitanideo, a historic school with a multifaceted offer. Her students, if you don't know, have built the seats here in the House, in the offices we're sitting on. We talked about it yesterday. This includes the participation of workers and teachers and managers on the school board. Seven of them are getting narcotics. Our proposal, as we have said in the committees, is that the workers' representatives should come from all the workers by vote and not just from your chosen trade union operator, Olemea. In Article 90, we invite you to see the memorandum sent by the GSE with which, on behalf of Mr Baxvanakis, you also had very good cooperation. There it strikes the alarm about the non-formal forms of education and training that are not subsidised and which are at risk, at the same time causing a blow to rapid and early training, so also to the economy. So do we have to find a gold incision between credibility and flexibility? See if you want, Mr. Baxvanaki. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We go to article 102 for visitors teachers at the IOI which speaks of the recognized Greek scientists abroad who didn't want them on the boards of foundations and you described them as naive and naive. This article limits their teaching to postgraduate and seminars only. The question is why. It had worked out the measure and there were some malfunctions to tell us or so you said, "Let's do another intervention in the universities. Haven't we had a while? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I need two more minutes. For Article 107 in the schools, we have said to call on the institutions and the OAU, that is, the Federation, to explain to us what the problem is that it identifies. That was not acceptable. The question is to see whether we are adding more bureaucracy when there is already a 'ERGAN' to make the necessary checks. Article 108 for TEIs and universities has left. I hope that your concern for the rehabilitation of injustices in this sector has not been left, that is, equal treatment between them and equal treatment with the rest of the public sector. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In conclusion, I would like to say that this project on education structures has not convinced us that it is based on a planned plan. The invoking decentralisation is, in fact, a regional concentration. In the end neither the economies of a central body have nor has the proximity of the school unit. The structures have a problematic function, something we have said to the committees, and the institutions have identified it, and they have said so in their memos. For management options the first is that the choices must be made from top down and not start your party executives with process drivers. Only then will you convince us that you are not building a party state. Secondly, remove the artificial limitations so that everyone can be judged equally if they are capable or not. Thirdly, make a more rational moleculosis rather than selective, so that people may be affected and that others may benefit. Here's our suggestions. It's not bad. In general, create a sustainable system that can withstand the future rather than a system that will serve your current needs. And I come to something last, but maybe more important. Disable the evaluation. You're giving the wrong message to society. The main thing is that you do not have an arrogant, ironic attitude to opposition when it makes proposals and not a sterile opposition, as you did when you were in opposition. You know, in many things we're right, but you're tied by many ideas and stories that have built careers, but they've shattered the educational web. Get rid of this and look right ahead where people go so we don't lose the train. No, that's us, but our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" thirty-eight students and students and three teachers attending the 3rd Amalada School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Megamomustakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by wishing all the young people who are today starting this fight of the Greeks. We hope that everyone will achieve what it has set itself. Let us hope that we can help them by changing things a little. We know very well that right now, the kids have a tough fight. I think that this is why we have an absolute responsibility. Before I start talking about the bill, I would like to show you today that the consultation and debate that you said has taken place, very simply not done, by submitting three letters from the bodies that came yesterday, but also this morning. Most of the institutions have pointed out this to us. That's what we all tell you in here. It's not enough for the eight months for half the articles, like you said. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You saw that your partner in the government was not entirely in agreement, he was not fully informed. And it's not personal, it's against your cooperation. In other words, I cannot understand how when these two parties, which will vote for this bill, as you said to us, are not entirely consentable, you want the other parties in this Parliament to come and support something that they are not sure about. I'm not telling you everything in this bill is negative. But I am sure that everything has not been checked and has not been evaluated as it should be. Evaluation, as you know, is not a bad thing. However, I shall refer to that. By following the committees, and today in plenary, the biggest issue that has arisen - and I think it can be noticed - is the support of the argument that you, with this bill, want to cover up and place your own people in positions of responsibility. With your choice, therefore, to abolish or replace the institution of the school advisor, you may think that you will manage to get someone who may have been placed by previous governments, but that is not what we want in our educational system. The model you should follow from us is first of all to assess, to see - because this is your obligation as a government, as a political leadership of this place - if the institutions and existing structures are working properly. We do not have the impression that all school advisors or that the board of school advisors did not function in the way they had to. Surely there were some pathogens, certainly there were some problems, but we should improve these. The model that we should follow, if necessary, is not the PCIs, the NCAs and the coordinators of educational work. For us, a serious multidisciplinary committee should be set up, where it will be close to our educational system, near schools, universities, children, in institutions that are related to children, so that they can give their opinions. Then they should show the way to school advisors, who are directly related to schools. They have absolutely nothing to do with MAGPs that may be in another county, they may be in the same region. It was daily the contact and friction of counsellors with school units and that was only good for us. And this group of excellence - although you are avoiding using this word, since some of you still consider the excellence - of those who have perpetrated, of those who are fit to their kind, to create a group where problems will be solved. I have listened carefully to the committees and to statements from you outside Parliament, saying that "modern society has modern problems". Yes, it is. It has the addiction, as you quite rightly said, in technological media, it has the bullying, it has racism, it has many issues to deal with. However, we do not see that with the structure you bring, with this new bill, there will be a solution to these serious problems. I think you're alienating those responsible actors from the problem from where the school is. Throughout Greece, the problem is that much of the children have become addicted to technological means. It is a problem for all of Greece that is intimidating. It's a problem for all of Greece, racism. I'm not saying it's all Greeks like this, but there's everywhere. That's what I want to end up with. It should therefore be a more complete solution. Each region cannot have its own way of dealing with the problem. That was the job of school advisors to give the solution to schools by direct contact. You're talking about problems. We believe that in order to solve the problems in our educational system we should in no way start at the top. We have to put the bases on. We must give the tools to those responsible for changing and improving our educational system. And what are these? It's the books. How many years have we had to change books? They're the curriculum programs. It's the number of kids in every room. It's the cover of the seats in time. We cannot have substitute recruitment just before Easter, but also after Easter, for a school year ending in June, when, in fact, these recruitments concern the parallel support, that is, a kind of special education and education. We're not ready. These problems must be solved. We need to see what the permanent gaps are now in our schools and then move forward and change the administrative structures. Because if we change the administration and this new administration doesn't have the tools and means to improve the problems that exist, then nothing will change. You have heard very well - and I told you in committee - that the major opposition, which hopes will be in the next election campaign, the victory, says that it will abolish everything you bring. Shouldn't we think of that before? And it's sad and outrageous for the people who are listening to us right now, when they know that each government comes and does its own. You, too, had rules in this bill - you say, of course, that you will reintroduce the taped interview - brought by your previous Minister and you are going to change them. We don't want that. And in what I'm telling you, I'm not alone. Even the Member of your party, Mr Stephen, said - I listened carefully - 'We must change a lot'. In particular, he also mentioned the number of children in kindergartens, but also other problems. So that is not enough, and most importantly, we should not start with it. In many bills you bring, you want to give the solution, but in a very paradoxical way. We can't see the tree in front of us and hide the mountain from the back. As I said at the outset, this bill has a positive effect. One of these is - as an idea - the creation of reception structures for the education of refugees. It is very important to organise such structures and we are already late. I know the problem was too big. However, when we talk about children, we should work much faster, be alert. It must be a direct solution to these problems. We cannot see that these children are being put aside, that they are on the sidelines of our society. Therefore, we wanted this and yesterday, if possible, because these children, without these structures, cannot be directly integrated into Greek education. That is why there were the reactions you saw from the parents, but without justifying them, because in many cases they were unreasonable. If, however, there is no information and multi-faceted knowledge of situations, we shall in no case have the desired effect. We do not want the children of the lanterns - to say this - we do not want children outside schools and outlawed, as we now have a lot of specific social groups. It is unacceptable, for me, that we live in 2018 and there are still begging children, children who are wandering from city to city. And begging why? Shouldn't they be in their schools at that time? We do not want to see phenomena similar to the refugee children, because some of them will stay in Greece as well. We therefore welcome such a move and are here to monitor and observe how this situation is progressing. Now we are going to the second most important issue of this bill, which is evaluation. Evaluation is nothing wrong, because you too are using it. I also say that for the JRC rapporteur, who said that the assessment of capitalism is one. It's not one. Evaluation is to think, to see where we are going right and where we are going wrong, what we are doing, so that not only will there be punishment - the punishment not already exist - but that there is a trace of the problem and an attempt to solve it. And he should be the one who's doing well, applauding him, rewarding him, giving incentives. That's it. We cannot know where we are going or whether what we are doing is right or wrong, say that our education or any other area is going well. I have heard you also talk about how the evaluation should be carried out, because many parents - which is true - may enter a school unit, with their minds that everything is wrong by waving a finger on teachers. Yeah, there's those phenomena too. I know that very well. But have we wondered why they exist? There are reasons why we have not succeeded so far to show parents what is right for their children. And we've asked questions, and we've asked too many times the issue from here, from home, about parents' schools, so that parents know what's right for their children. Because many parents from their exaggerated love - that is why we must never misunderstand some of the parents and I do not think there is a person here who will question the relationship between a parent and a child - may fall into mistakes. That's why we're here to show the right way. We should therefore have a wider concept and have our minds function a little differently, so that we can see that the problem is not just in the administration, but in the whole system. We should first improve the basis and then go to the administration. What we lack, unfortunately, from the political system is that we do not listen to 100% of our society. And a train example of this is the fact that you come to abolish along with school advisors and computer centres and new technologies. We all know in here, or we must know, that the present and future are new technologies and information technology. Everything is now done through a smart cell phone, through a tablet, through a computer. Everything! In Greece, we think it is a very foreign matter. And that's justifiable. We need to learn that to our children through courses and computer laboratories, which should have a very special place in our educational programme, which is not the case. I also told the committees, I say now, that most of the computers we have in laboratories are outdated. The software they've been working is from the beginning of the past decade. How do you want to create children who will be able to live in their later lives? These centres were trying to correct - as much as they could - the problems I have mentioned. Therefore, for us, they should under no circumstances be abolished. They should be strengthened so that we can finally match the developments that are taking place in our society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u51	You know...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u52	I'm very well aware, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u53	You want to say what they did for a living?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u54	Everything was done. They may have corrected computers, they may have advised how these lessons are to be made. That's what we needed from them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u55	While we have informatics teachers in schools, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u56	Wherever we have. It's not exactly like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u57	Finish, Mr. Big-fashioned, if you'll be kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u58	Yes, Mr. President. What we lack is serious and honest. If we acquire these two virtues, then we may even overthrow the whole picture society has for us. I hope that we will do so immediately and I think that all Greek citizens hope for that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, has the floor for his introduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to respond to some criticisms and highlight the architecture of the project that we have tabled. I won't yell, so I'm not too tiring, but the fact that I won't shout doesn't mean I won't be categorical about what I'm saying. We all agree that this bill, its basic philosophy, is made public by the conference with OLEME, the ILO and the Panhellenic School Counsellors since 24 October. Any party that considers itself responsible for such matters has had an infinite time to read it, comment on it, send us opinions, as it did. And it's not right not to tell who you asked to tell you about the details of the bill from then on. And we sent in managers and they informed you. There should therefore be a responsibility of the parties, because bureaucratic terminology or various issues 'not then went up to consultation', 'not up', are not an alibi to the non-responsible attitude of the parties to the bill. Since 24 October, it has been up three times in the consultation and discussions have been held. But there's something else and I think that's what's bothering you. The last three years are quite clear throughout society, that we have entered a new period of education. There have been too many things and there has already been an increase in funding over the last two years. And here I would ask the opposition to see if it follows the policy that Mr Mitsotakis calls it in a very simple way. He says: "When we come to things, we will abolish the laws of Balta, Phil and Gavroglou." It's an interesting policy. Isn't that right? I do not think that such a policy has been clearly expressed since the post-Macedonia. But I would ask the opposition if he believes so, to state it, if he doesn't, to be differentiated. Because I ask: will you abolish the return of those who were available in schools, the two and a half thousand teachers, the managers? Will you abolish the uniform nature of primary education or will you abolish the whole day, which have been extended to the fewer days? There are three and a half thousand of them and eight hundred fifty per cent of them. Will you abolish the network of thousands of libraries and the two-year compulsory education? One hundred and eighty-four mayors have signed. Are you going to abolish the four months introduced in high school? Are you going to abolish the four courses under examination at the end of the fourth grade and restore the thirteenth? Will the 'thematic week' be abolished? Do you remember a lot of people you were talking about last year? Why don't you say that this year? Will you cancel the setting-up of the thirty-six special education units and the five hundred seventy-seven membership departments, as well as all the initiatives to rehabilitate the declining specialities in the ESDP? Aren't you going to cancel the apprenticeship? Are you going to cancel the establishment of the University of West Attica? Are you going to cancel more and more students and students to go to postgraduate without tuition? Aren't you going to cancel the two-year? Aren't you going to cancel the new system? Are you going to cancel the student brothers' transcripts or cancel the synergies between the universities and the TEI? Are you going to cancel all the initiatives to train all refugees? I have more, but I won't. So here's what he wants. Tell which one of these you think is in the right direction and we will all strengthen them together and who is behind this monotony, "when we come to things, we will abolish the laws of Balta, Friend and Gavroglou." If you disagree, you differentiate! If you are not differentiated, silence means accepting such a policy! In the days that we discussed in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, two quite different ways have emerged in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. The first is this: In addition to the criticisms that have been made, is there any alternative proposal? Is there? It hasn't been expressed. That's a punk. I too should accept it for the sake of discussion. But is there another proposal, another philosophy, another architecture? There isn't. Unless you're diligently hiding her. The second - and this, if you like, is very shocking - is this: you cannot come out of the way of thinking dominated by partyism. You can't think of anything else. You think everyone's only dermatism is to party. Are there any other ways of thinking? Does society not even care about partyism? And you know what? And I don't take that personally, obviously, but it's not good. Don't think we're so stupid, because if we wanted to party, we have very good recipes from you. Did we have any reason to devise new forms of partyism? We're not that stupid. Let me tell you a very nice recipe: I will not say Ministers, I will not say names, I will not touch any suspicions. There's an election in March. In September, four months later, they are stopped by ministerial decision, two hundred and fifty - six head offices of primary and secondary education and one hundred and sixteen head of primary and secondary education. Almost four hundred, that is, people are stopped by ministerial decision, when they had been judged - these people in their jobs were chosen by crisis - and others are appointed as temporary for three years. It's, unfortunately, our homeland! - one of many recipes, because the system was too inventive to have partisan recipes. So the best thing we could do is to copy one of these recipes. And that's exactly what we don't want to do. And we don't want to do it because people, society - and you go out and talk to society - have been built with that reason on partyism. Fortunately in society, not all citizens are party members. Fortunately in society there are people who want to offer. Fortunately, society is not dominated by the logic and culture of communism. But you are so insecure that you think we're all thinking on the same terms. And I'm telling you, don't underestimate us. If we wanted to think on the same terms, we had what to copy. You've been doing this for years, until very recently. That's why we're saying that from the personal center we're going to collective. And what's collective? The association of teachers is a nucleus of collective. But there is something else, because along with the inability to understand that society is now elsewhere, you cannot understand the shocking changes that are taking place in society. In the last ten years a new society, a problem society, with new realities, has emerged. It is a society where these new issues are overshadowed and expressed within school. Should we say about the radical changes that have emerged in terms of access to knowledge? Say about the new values that exist in family life, in friendship between young people? Say about the familiarity of society with violence? Say about something that may be the first time in the history of mankind, that masses and masses of young people are addicted not only to substances but to artifacts? In an artifact, on the cell phone! These are new phenomena. These phenomena must be understood. And these phenomena have expressions in school life. Who's gonna figure it out? Teachers themselves. Teachers are the most sensitive bodies that catch, smell, locate and suggest solutions to such problems. That is why we say that teachers should be within the educational club and in consultation with these structures. Why? Because school is a social institution. And don't try to isolate it from society. Don't try to think that school is an institution where the only thing that's done is learning process. For decades, the whole school has been not only a institution for learning. Of course, dominant is learning. But there are all the other problems. It is the socialization of children, the discussions, the parents who come and want to face their own problems. These are the serious problems of today. And can I tell you something? I say in the secondary and in the discussions with other colleagues that the tone of catastrophe is a little falling, because catastrophe cannot be believed. It would make sense to destroy it if it were validated, if it were confirmed. Let me remind you what you were saying when last year, we passed the bill for school directors? Do you remember the catastrophe that you had brought, when the law on universities was being discussed, about the University of Western Attica, about the entire day's school for the theme week, about two-year-old pre-school education? I was really impressed by the speech made by the spokesman of the JRC, who spoke of 12-year-old education. I suspect that this is why you have not voted for two-year compulsory education. These are new phenomena, and I don't understand why you don't tell us, unless you had voted for it and we don't know it because I see you and you smile. Look, on the subject of the term of office, we said our differences and we went further. But there's something else: no matter how worthy of someone, he has no right to be alive in one place. The worthy ones can offer everywhere. And if they're teachers, that's the best. All the rest I don't want to say what it is. So I say that there are no irreplaceable, there are no life expectancy, and I hope, above all, there are no people who scare them from the educational act. Because if they think they're lifelong and irreplaceable and frightens them to go back to class, I think the best thing is to say "I chose the wrong profession, let me go to another profession, if I can do it better." That's the philosophy of service. And in order not to surprise ourselves, we make the arrangements we make, but you know that this is our philosophy, that's the philosophy of the Left, and that's exactly what we'll defend. Infinite things have been said about the evaluation. You know, there is a public reason many times that our people say 'Let us prove that you are not an elephant'. Here it is almost to think that Presidential Decree 152 was the greatest wish in the Greek society since its establishment. Because redundancies and available resources have been called into question here because they tell us 'but tell us what paragraph we have to lay off', etc. Look, society doesn't work that way. The courts may work this way, but society doesn't work that way. Is it or is it not 152 the basic tool that led to availability and redundancies in education, yes or no? Is there someone who says "wasn't"? Because in 152 it was used as the ideological alibi and the natural tool to make these reeds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u61	Because you're asking questions, we'll answer you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u62	When your turn comes, you'll answer me. You didn't say no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u63	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u64	Mrs. Keramea says no. It is so not that the Civic Opposition fortunately, for the first time, was forced to declare that any evaluation he wants should not be identified with punishment. First time! I never heard of it again, because I'm watching you very well, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u65	First time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u66	That's good. Changing views is a very good thing, and I have welcomed it, and I welcome it now. What, of course, makes me a terrible impression is the comfort with which the JRC comes and says that the abolition of 152 and of Law 3848 remains an empty letter. "God" is the answer. If it's the old logic, the worse the citizens are, the better for some, stay there. But citizens have the right to their lives not to get worse every day. Well, in 152, and the abolition of Law 3848, you know it's not an empty letter. Teachers know it, they know it, they know it, they know it, they know it, they know it, they know it, they know it, they know it, they know it, they know it, they know it. And everyone knows it, too, who promotes this strange ideology of objectivity, because here we have heard that. And, you know, hegemony ideology highlights objectivity as another tool, like something that's normal. It is not because in society there are no neutral things. Because there are no neutralities, there are no relativisms, Mr. Andriane. In other words, relativism, other social definitions of different dimensions of everyday life. Because people think that what I said is almost nonsense, that the state has no moral obligation to support teachers and that the state's only obligation is to go with your finger and say "you did your job well, you didn't do well, go away, come on" etc. No, the state has a moral obligation to train them, to improve working conditions, to put them into the improvement, etc. And you know how far back the state is on these issues. So the state cannot have this moral and political right. That's why we call the self-assessment of the school unit. We're starting over there. Because we have confidence in teachers. All teachers do their job well? Don't go into this, obviously not. That's true if all politicians are good, etc. That's not the point. But do we trust in this social layer, yes or no? If we have confidence in him, we can't just say we have confidence and we're going down and we're pulling it out of any procedures of everyday life. That is why, in duplicating the decisions of OLAF and the ILO, which have so far not been renounced, we have proceeded with the self-assessment of the school unit and their judgment of how things will improve. Everything else is bureaucratic. Whoever the collectives scare, whoever the collective expression of teachers scares, is to say it. But this is our place, it's a left place. I'm closing up with this. Because I may not understand it, and so we also have a margin to make a mistake. I did not understand that there was a proposal for another philosophy and another architecture. In other words, we will either decide that the current regime as an architecture and philosophy is fine and will improve it or that another one will be proposed for the committees three days after the recommendations have not been proposed or that we will improve what we are proposing. There is no fourth solution. Or today, but you go out and say that today is fine as architecture and philosophy, i.e. personalities, one, the other, etc. and you must improve or say that we have a secret paper and we will get it out after the elections or say that what we are proposing as architecture and philosophy is correct and has the following weaknesses. There's no fourth street. I would at least like to say to that. That is why, and when we say so, we are voting in principle, and so on, see if when we vote, we have an alternative proposal or it is simply a general zero. And because you have all spoken about the national importance of education, etc., I would say that if you believe that, then you really should tell us what your plan is. Because if you do not, you are reasonably obliged - logically, not politically - to adopt ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Minister. With the permission of this House, I would ask that we give Mr Kourakis a priority to make his suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy will be followed by Mr Javarras and four fellow Members and Mr Theocharopoulos. We're going one and four. Mr. Kourakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law we are debating today forms part of a more general effort to restructure public education, and in this context it comes to conflict with attitudes and practices deeply rooted in the everyday life of the educational process. Following on from what the Minister said earlier, on the Presidential Decree of 152/2013, which provided for an individual hierarchical assessment linked to wage growth, I would like to say that this would result in multi-class education. And I ask you: How objective can it be to link individual evaluation to the performance of students in a Greece with a particular student population per region or per region? How, then, can we judge, assessing teachers from school performances? So, a school that has a lot of students in the pan-Hellenics who have gone to higher education is a good school? This does not take into account the educational inequalities, the educational level, the socio-economic conditions. For example, is it not a school that trains Roma or refugees very good, even though it will not have a success at university if it has managed to reduce the school leak? In this case teachers will be punished, and much more will they be punished with dismissal, as has happened in the Minister of State of Mr Mitsotakis in the respective Ministry? Here I must say that the obsession of the President of the New Democracy does not mean that the existing institutional framework in evaluation is not dismantled by the proposals he has made at times on education issues, with a clear sign justifying the ‘equal merchandise’ equation. You remember the expression that students are customers. So the proposals made by the President of the New Democracy and the Party of New Democracy, from the creation of "autonomous schools" with the option of selecting staff and curricula to the dependency of university funding on their performance and the possibility for teachers of institutions to set up businesses, you understand that this is also linked to the punishment assessment. We say that this assessment will be carried out, as the Minister has already said, on the basis of objectives which are set by the school unit and the teachers to whom we have complete confidence. Now I'm going to another topic that I had just developed in committee. As you know, earlier at the Ministry of Education there was an environmental education department, which was subject to the Department of Studies. Recently, there has been a substantial change in the organisational programme and the Directorate for Sustainable Education has been re-established, which has been structured with four distinct sections, which has highlighted the importance that our Government attaches to the issues of environmental and sustainability education, school education and health promotion, cultural issues and the use of educational television in education as a priority in the school community. This priority is reflected in this draft law in a new education and training structure, common to primary and secondary education, the Sustainable Education Centres, incorporating the three other themes of environmental education, education and health promotion and cultural issues. The point is that in the CRLs, which are set up to serve the principles of sustainability, in the first phase, teachers working in environmental education centres come mainly and I am very afraid that if there are no regulations to which I shall refer below, with the enhanced moleculosis they receive, almost all CRLs will be served by colleagues who promote - and well do - their object of environmental education, that is to say, they will have a monoculture - let me express them - on the environment. What I would like to do, Minister, with a legal intervention, is to provide for a balanced or proportionate quota in the CRLs of all three subjects, namely environmental education and health education and cultural issues. Otherwise, we will see what is happening throughout Greece today, these objects, with their weaknesses, is almost satisfactory - we would, of course, like more support, especially in the regional departments - to provide all of my fellow professors with environmental education centres. I think the solution would be a legislative improvement in the type of 'in the educational group, set up by a quota of members, in terms of balanced composition, in terms of the possibility of supporting all three themes of sustainable education, namely environmental education, health education and culture'. This can be a solution to this issue. In conclusion, I would like to say that health treatment, especially in our day, becomes a very important one. There are new challenges - the Minister said before - very big changes in society, changes in the structure of the family. Already the legislation we voted on on leaf identity issues, the cohabitation pact and the assumption of children presupposes that these issues should be discussed within schools. The same must be done for respect for diversity. I think we have to upgrade the role of health care, I repeat, not at the expense of other things, but with a balanced development. Finally, there is a very important issue, Minister. I think we talked about it together once. The Ministry should make a protocol of cooperation between educational bodies and support institutions, such as medical centres, prevention centres, community psychiatric services, for the purpose of managing the crisis in school units. I mention as examples the suicide attempt, the bowling, the lack of respect for diversity, etc. I know that's in your mind. I repeat that I think that with a legislative improvement around the quota, all these colleagues, who have been fighting the question of health education over the years, both in terms of prevention and of dealing with the treatment, can have their place in the bill, in a modern Greek reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much Mr. Kourakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd School of Nafplio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Javarra, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, although every time, when I have to deal with your positions, I have the most pitiful attitudes, because you are indeed a person in the field of education, but today what is mostly angering me, but I will be restrained, it is not the genius you have shown but your self-defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u72	Same...?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u73	Your self-defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u74	Oh, right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u75	You had a special style, addressing the Civic Opposition. You have had a style of ideological completeness towards an opponent you consider to be paradoxical - not only you, but also your rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u76	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u77	Finally, as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, I would like to raise a preliminary issue at the beginning of my speech. We're not the conservative party. And that's what you should know. We're not even neoliberal. And that should have been made clear. We're liberal. If you have not yet been informed about historical developments in 1989, it is those who adopt the only ideology which, based on faith in freedom, proportionality and justice, has triumphed. Right now is the dominant ideology in the entire civilized world. But in my turn, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: what are you? Are you left-wing radicals? Are you communists? Are you centre-left? Are you neo-communists? Are you populists? Are you nationalists? Are you paternalists of a logic that for over a hundred and fifty, two hundred years has been trying to change the world and always pretend that the revolution has not yet taken place, while everyone knows, even the stones, that the revolution took place in 1917 and failed? So, what are you pretending to be? Honestly, Minister, you do not have any need to appear here in this patronage style to your opponents. Nor do you have the right of parliament to ask for proposals from opposition or plans. Because this is a political process. Because there is only one relationship here: the government that brings bills and the House, which discusses them and votes on them. He's talking about it, though. The Minister does not come here to send us an obsolete letter and tell us that this government expresses the intrinsic tendencies of history to save people. That's over. The cumulative issues of history are over. And they ended in the most dreadful way than Nazism and Stalinism. Finally, restrain yourself and let us discuss the major problems of education and education. Of course, Minister, I would expect you to explain to us today why you insist on this method of selecting the training officials, since you already have the decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State, Decision 711/2017, which explains why this specific methodology should be left to you. Why is he telling you? Because it does not respect the basic principles of the Constitution arising from the provisions of Articles 4 and 5, and it is the principle of dignity, the principle of equality and the principle of impartiality. Do you consider these urban habits? Do you consider these principles to be the privilege of representing the people with the ideology of this confusing, in any case, this blurred blur in which you swim? In fact, I am delighted that many of you are speaking and exposing and worshiping and defending the ideology of human rights. However, this anthropology of human rights - you must admit it - is neither communist nor left-wing in the sense that you ambassador and have nothing to do with all these ideologies that you disguise us here every day. It is an ideology that is the quintousity of the project of ideological enlightenment, with which you cannot have anything to do with denouncing as urban, outdated and outdated principles the principle of equality, the principle of sovereignty, the principle of impartiality, the principle of worthy neutrality of the state. What you are interested in, Minister, is well known now. It is the pleasure of being in charge of a state mechanism, which does nothing but redistribute incomes and confer privileges and prerogatives on your "local" symbols to the people for whom you have brought us today and these specific provisions. We are all aware of the way in which you save things, both in the area of the choice of staff of the education administration and in the assessment of which you are intolerant. Because you obviously cannot see what evaluation means and they are really preventing you from being misled. But tell me, is that possible? I'm opening an extrajudicial, and I'm coming back. Article 47 makes us think that for you self-assessment is a collective psychodramatic that takes place within a meeting of the teachers' association of a school unit, where there is an account of the facts and the programming of the next year's work. This has to do with anyone - I don't know who, will you tell us if it can apply - a philosophy that supports evaluation in the sense of yielding value to a particular person? That means evaluation. And the value, to God, is not a personal matter. Value is not self-determination. Value is not the idea that the person has for himself. The value has nothing to do with ideologies like the ones you previously dazzled us. The value is what others give us. And I am giving it precisely because we have achieved it within a specific area of social action. This is the value and you are right to distinguish between the educational field and the field of public administration, because in fact this educational field is of particular importance to the reproduction of society, not to record the revolutionary changes you have been telling us here. And I'm sorry when you, an educated universityman, come here and you're being exposed to reasonable and educated people listening to you. And what remains in the end as a suppression of what we have heard is the verse of Hector Cacknavatou that “You are in full confusion.” Because I really can't count on you deceit. You're too decent to be counted deceit. You are just a man who tries through illusions and delusional ideals to lead his Government, his resignation to the deportation of the educational area, without any consciousness that this place delivers him to an inappropriate, in an impotence, in an essentially undermining, in order not to satisfy his basic mission. And I will tell you why your rapporteur has mentioned Max Webber with a multitude. But is it possible to ignore that after Max Webber there were training sociologists, wise people, who have really revealed to us shocking truths about how education works? In other words, these very specific texts of the work of Pier Bouvier and Jean-Claude Paseron have been able to fully clarify what is going on in education and, above all, have led us to think and be conscious and organisational factors to create an educational system that in the area of choice, Minister, will do nothing but to distribute the "Symbolic capital", as Bouvier says, which is nothing but a means to achieve educational purposes that make use of social recognition, prestige, education, personal capacity. This is precisely what you should understand, not on ideological and party criteria, but on merit criteria. And meritably on the basis of the provision of Article 5 of the Constitution are those criteria which do not prevent the citizen from having access to a public position by exploiting his personal competence and knowledge and experience. That is exactly what it is called a worthyness, and it comes from the Constitution. And you should reasonably, because, as the Prime Minister once said, you are every word from the 1975 Constitution, not consider these hollow words and come here and say to us "But what does it mean objectivity?" Nah, what does objectivity mean? There is no objectivity. We all live our fantasy. We all live isolated in a personal or in a collective environment, which denies us is the possibility of understanding what is happening in the outside world. How can we do this, Minister? Man does have an ontological loneliness. It's the only thing in this world that has to have a relationship with himself. But you overreacted. You only have every day where you come in with yourself and those you represent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If, then, you want to know, there is another fact that you are constantly underestimating it, which is the liberal party, which is expressed in this context by the New Democracy Parliament and which is also interested in cultivating a creative relationship with the world. And this creative relationship with the world, you know, cannot rely on this kind of machinery that you set up to enjoy satisfaction and say it, in fact, naked of power. There's a symbol system. There is a symbolic precedent, which you are abused every day and along with it you abuse the language, logic, the institutions, because in all this confusion, in which you wander, you cannot understand that there are needs in this place, but that is not what you have listed us here. There are needs such as those that the Prime Minister today - and to his honour - announced with a statement from the Prime Minister that the New Democracy endorses it: 'Education is an investment in the future'. But when we have to deal with your mastership, the Minister of Education, with this style from this step and this malicious bill and the goblined bill, I would like to ask you: What future do you invest as Minister of this Government? Can you tell us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u80	Please, Minister, but very soon, so that we can move on to the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u81	I had the illusion that we are obviously discussing a bill on support structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u82	Please, ladies and gentlemen. It's the Minister's answer. Please be quiet so we can move fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u83	Instead, Mr Javarra, there was an extremely interesting seminar entitled "The Psychography of the Minister of Education". I thank Mr Javarras for, in fact, giving valuable thought to my psyche.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u84	It's all in the Minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u85	With this in mind, I would like to differentiate myself to one single thing, that I spoke in a manner of paternalistic. Because despite the budgetary tightness that exists, we will ask the House for compensation for our ears when we speak calmly does not mean 'Paternalist'. Okay? So shouting is not the opposite of paternalistic. I would therefore ask everyone here and now to keep tons for health reasons, if anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to take the floor, because the gentleman has addressed me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Javarra, no, please. I beg Mr. Charakopoulos to come. He is the first speaker, the first congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u88	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u89	Here, you have the floor until Mr Charakopoulos comes to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u90	Minister, I would really be grateful if, instead of the height and intensity of my voice, of course, it had to do with my soul - be careful! - You've answered the contents of what I said. However, Freud has explained it about the intensity of the voice. Indulgently, you're referring me back to psychology. "Anatomy is destiny". Don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much. Today's Minutes are of particular academic interest. Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us return to the destiny of education. In a favoured state, the main element is education, because it is the ideal citizen. Public education is the main mechanism for social mobility, which gives children the opportunity to raise social opportunities from poor families. By car education can open new horizons and seize opportunities in their lives. A prerequisite, however, is the high quality of knowledge provided, a basic supply in a highly competitive global environment. So those who swear to alleviate the class differences should not just claim, but first of all seek to upgrade the level of public school education provided. The prosperous, anyway, have the opportunity to choose for their children some of the good private schools. How are the high standards of public school ensured? First of all, it is not without the promotion of fair play among children, the cultivation of excellence, that is to say children learn to set high goals in their lives and conquer them. It is necessary, of course, in the digital age that we live, where developments are running fast, it is modern logistic equipment. However, the greatest value is the human resources that serve education. It is therefore an obligation for the state to choose the best for the positions of responsibility, to run every choice of education officials and, of course, as we live in a changing world, lifelong education, the continuing education of teachers, teachers and teachers is essential. The evaluation of all is a tool for self-improvement of the educational process. Finally, the state has an obligation to provide special treatment for children with disabilities. I would say that the level of special education is a measure of culture for every society. How, then, does the bill under discussion respond to these standards imposed for the upgrading of public education? Is it promoting dignity in the selection of training staff? Does he cultivate excellence, or does he promote evaluation? And it also facilitates access to special lawsuits? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, none of this does. On the other hand, it confirms the government's proverbial allergy to excellence - which you have described as retsins - devaluates merit and expels the external evaluation of teachers, which is self-evident in all normal countries as an incentive to improve, but also to strengthen the sense of justice. The bill under discussion serves the logic of the minor effort that runs all your philosophy. It effectively abolishes school advisors, for whom positive views have been expressed by scientific associations, pedagogical and academic bodies. I'm filing in the Minutes a series of communications. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You remove the school advisors, who are a key institution for school support, and you replace them with a bureaucratic and personal body, completely away from the school unit and the teacher. However, the whole process of selecting training staff also serves to make public administration participa­tion. The appointed regional directors, for whom we became a rapist in the European Parliament, will be headed by the selection boards along with the already directors of education chosen by SYRIZA with criteria that were judged unconstitutionally by the Syriza. Mr. Minister, I see he's not in the chair. In the last selection procedure of secondary school managers in Larissa it was claimed that in many cases the oral rating completely overturned the classification created on the basis of objective moleculosis. I asked the Minister on 10 November 2017, to which she never replied. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. The bill you brought, gentlemen of the government, is obviously the answer, as it extends to all members of education the importance of the interview for selecting the "days". Beautiful world of angels made up! In addition, special treatment with ERCs is likely to become subject to experimentation against the families of pupils with special educational needs and disability. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put an end to the downhill of the educational system. Our commitment is to abolish any provision of law which imposes the logic of levelling and partyism on education. As a government, we will proceed with the selection of senior education officials through ASP, a proposal that I recommended when I was responsible for the Education Sector of New Democracy, and I am pleased that it was adopted by the leadership of my party. It is time to look ahead rationally and to take education out of the stature, where populism has thrown it, restore democracy throughout the structure of education, and show excellence as a social virtue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Harakopoulos. We move on to the next speaker, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, from the PASOK - DIMAR Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, I wanted to begin with a mention and comment on the position of the Minister beforehand - I will wait for him - by saying that the draft law under discussion may reflect SYRIZA's views on what we call education architecture and educational structures, but does not have the support of the educational world and creates a number of important problems in the educational institutions that he is supposed to upgrade. The main structures that you have introduced, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, with this bill, are, at most, a mix of bureaucratic and institutional education concept, guided by controlled political and administrative institutions. We will vote against because we are totally opposed to this policy, but above all because in the structures of the education you enter, there is no vision of excellence, there is no vision of leadership, there is no vision of administration, there is no vision of the assessment of structures and staff, there is no vision of the development of the educational work. Indicative of your perception, however, is the abolition of many of the institutions that had inconvenienced the educational act, had created a confidence in efficiency and the quality of which could be upgraded - with any mistakes that had been made - and their functioning could be modernised. It is for this reason that the school advisors, TEKs - the latest organised training structure for teachers - and the CEDEFOPs, together with them, have been abolished and the necessary diagnosing of pupils with special educational needs. In particular, with the establishment of regional educational planning centres - the MAGPs, Article 4 - the full discharge of the Ministry of Education is inaugurated by the responsibility for real and substantial support for educational work and teachers. The number of responsibilities of the new institution, in which responsibilities for teaching, administrative, advisory, educational planning and evaluation of the educational work, educational, advisory parents, coordination of other educational bodies, gives this institution characteristics not of design but of bureaucratic education policy. These centres - the MAGPs - are held next to the regional training director. So you understand that all you do administratively and organizingly is doubling the structures. It is also a impression - and I will say this to all colleagues, I would like to tell the Minister if he were here - that the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the EGTCs are supported in their work by the EGC - is in Article 4 - and the Directorate-General for Primary and Secondary Education of the Ministry of Education, rather than the exact opposite, that is, the regional centres should be those that support the structure and functioning of the Ministry, as is happening everywhere in the world. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me - and I think we should listen to this in order to change it - that, in the many and varied responsibilities of the MAGPs, you did not find it appropriate to incorporate the coordination of actions to combat intra-school violence and the phenomenon of racism and xenophobia in school units. It was an excellent intervention that we had launched along with the relevant Observatory in 2012. He was embraced by the educational community, but I understand that this is a matter of perception, as I very well remember the lukewarm reactions of SYRIZA at that time about this measure. With regard to Article 17 and the abolition of the institution of school advisors, all that is certain is that it is not a lightning lightning, but a confirmation of a death announcement. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL for three years, after vigilating the teachers of this institution, based on the officials of government unionism, who said that the school advisors as a whole are expressors of the German-chocolates, memoranda bosses, the memoranda policies, thus completely degrading the institution, and today the way for its abolition is being opened. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President, if you'll be kind. As regards the institution of the school advisor, I am pleased that the New Democracy has said how successful it had achieved through its path, through its mistakes, but the foundation of the school advisor was born in 1982 by the great struggles of teachers, from post-policy and then, against the administrative authoritarian rule and was inspired and supported by leading Greek teachers. What are you doing today? While it was an option that placed the school advisor close to school, next to the educational, critical and representative in his work, today you are bureaucraticizing this structure, putting it within the PCI and beyond, simply canceling its function in practice, a function we know from the past that you were not only in favour of it, but you thought that this teacher, that is, the school advisor, was an unnecessary institution. For the evaluation of training staff, the question is very simple: why should we be talking about the assessment of training staff and not about the assessment of structures, especially staff, class teachers? And that is what we need to assess as a priority. What you are introducing today is being circumvented by any concept of objective assessment, since the questionnaire reinforces arbitraryness, subjectivity, hypocrisy to apply a allegedly democratic assessment underneath and to cultivate suspicion and customer relations. It can't work like this. Reminds and copies of the scale of ratings and the descriptive way and the characterisations, models that have their source and references to the era of authoritarian inspection, authoritarian model. You do nothing but develop this model. I will finish, while there is too much else to say - and because Mr Fotakis was here - with one question: is it possible to pass on, while the ELIDEK - you have served it by the ELIDEEC - at the moment, resources and activities of the ELIDEE against retention of 5%? Why is that so? It's very simple, because the ELIDEK never fixed it, it never worked, and someone needs you right now to run the programs. I conclude with that. I was impressed by the fact that the Minister was placed yesterday - I listened very carefully - but also today. It was placed in the House, but also in the committee. He came to say how bad the opposition that has no alternatives is. Perhaps he did not hear the fact that the opposition from all or almost all of the parties of the opposition has to do with the way and the architecture he wants to structure in education. The second is that he's here to say he's ruining "magasies" on the other hand, he's building a huge store that writes up "SYRIZA". Not even ANEL! The third, which is very important and important, and I tell you, is that the Minister told us that today there is not only a proposal, but that he did not come to defend his own bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Comrade, please! You've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u96	It is strange that in his position yesterday and in today's position in twenty minutes there was not even a single paragraph supporting his own bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u98	As for the educational world - and I shall end with that, Mr President - I know that he has actually rejected this bill as a whole. Some SYRIZA trade unions, of course not. But I will tell you from experience that there is no bill on education that walked without having the educational world with him. Life will show. I would like to tell you, however, that there is a failure statement here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and apprentices and four educational attendants from the 13th Trikalon Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to give me some time to read that this school has been amused, as it has received the first world prize from UNESCO with the painting "Save and light... joy and hope". It was a prize between ten thousand schools from all over the planet. The theme of the competition was "We bending our hearts and minds on refugees" and the award took place at the seat of UNESCO in Paris last July. I think they deserve congratulations to the children! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-seven students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Nea Kydonia Chania. The House welcomes you. Mr. Peter Constantine has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, education necessarily follows the social changes we have today. However, it is also the place of forming the personality and preparing for the integration of young people into this society. This draft law entitled "Reorganises support structures for primary and secondary education and other provisions" addresses the existing problem of the reorganisation of the structures of administration and education as well as the planning and evaluation of and evaluation of the educational work we have today and the aptitude of its managers. In an ever-changing reality with multiple consequences for people's social life, the need for redesigning educational policies is now more necessary than ever. As part of the support for school units and educational work, this need goes from one-faced institutions to a dynamic relationship between school and support structures. A joint formulation of the educational objectives, pedagogical practices, the forms of examination and reassessment by school units and groups of schools, which had no reason to do so, with the cooperation of educational and advisory support centres for the sustainability of educational centres and regional educational planning centres, is therefore being carried out. Thus, today, a new dynamic is being created in the Greek educational system. More specifically, it is very important that the institutionalisation of the new support structures of education at the level of the region and at the level of the educational directorates replaces the opposite action of many monologues in the majority of the institutions, such as school advisors, school workers and others, with the collective nature of the project and their action. Through the collective planning and action that will have members of the three new structures, the multidisciplinary approach to this regional planning will be produced both of the educational needs of teachers - which we now need and see - and the necessary interventions at the psychosocial and pedagogical level to support educational work in our schools. The collective planning and evaluation of the school unit's work are established by the teachers' associations themselves. Educational autonomy of teachers is strengthened. Repeal of the institutional framework of d.d.152/2013 of the individual punishing evaluation of teachers. What we've been talking about before, I'll see you now. The institutional framework that has linked the self-assessment that you, gentlemen, wanted of the school units to categorise is also abolished. The evaluation of training staff by the heads of state and government is also being carried out. The selection of all training staff shall be based on uniform criteria, with a term of office limit at each post of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue on the path of democratisation, which we have been calling for so many years, of education and which we are fighting for a modern framework of the duties of all the training officials and for the transfer of competences to the school unit and the school club. The bill puts definitively the legislation of the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK that had suffered a heavy blow to the current educational system with Law 3848/2010 and No.152/2013. We are making an effort - because we are being watched by the gallery and the children from school - to democratise all schools' structures. The suit of the anti-democratic treatment of teachers - who listen to us from the west of the House - from the previous governments we intend, after the Greek people have brought us here, to stitch it up - seams. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much Mr. Constantinea. The next speaker, Mr Christos Kelles, has the floor for five minutes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in this draft law, which brought about at night and in accordance with the urgency procedure, is attempting to cause another blow to primary school, secondary education and special education. Once again, we see the government despising everything that has to do with excellence, merit and functionality, by establishing in place mechanisms which are partyly controlled. It is a real achievement, Minister, that you managed to turn against you all the stakeholders, the Pan-Hellenic Association of School Counsellors, the Pan-Hellenic Association of School Directors, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Deputy Teachers, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Teachers for Environmental Education and others. Of course, it is a global originality, Minister, to discuss a bill for people with disabilities, the State Secretary of State is taking part in the very good cooperation with the RESEMA and this afternoon the RESEMA will issue a press release and say the following. I read: 'The bill comes, without any consultation and information on the arrangements it promotes, suddenly as an emergency, without taking into account the disabled people themselves for whom it legislates'. And he concludes that “it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, even now, to understand the wrong path.” This is therefore called excellent cooperation! I'm presenting the RESEMA's communication to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Kelles, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as structures are concerned, the draft law instead of decentralising and strengthening the support of the school in its natural space creates, in its place, a dysfunctional and hydro-headed structure, remote from the school environment. The MAGPs are set up at regional level, including scientific guidance departments and school advisors. The JCGs, educational and advisory support centres, which will incorporate the existing JCGs, the JCGs and the youth advisory stations, are set up at the level of training. The draft law lacks the establishment of a roadmap for action of the ERCMs and, in particular, the provision for synergies and interactions with the ERCMs. Also, there are no guarantees of operation for the ERCFs and it is doubtful whether they will be staffed with sufficient staff, since the JCMs from sixty-two are seventy-seven, but operational staff, unfortunately, remain the same for five-fold jobs. And as far as funding is concerned, have you ensured it? Where exactly are these appropriations from? And how many are there? In addition, it is defined to transfer responsibilities under the pretext of decentralisation to specialised scientific staff of the EDPS, the Diagnostic Assessment and Support Committees. We are talking here about decommissioning and transferring responsibility from a responsible Ministry of Education rather than transferring responsibility. Furthermore, it promotes the medicalization of learning difficulties. Instead of taking place in a educational and educational multidisciplinary framework, students will gradually be assigned to institutions of the Ministry of Health, in a completely medical and hospital environment, reliving their tails to medical centres for simple diagnoses of disabled children and children with special educational needs. Minister, do you ultimately support an intrinsic and pragmatic reform recommended to you by your advisers, but who have no real contact with reality and simply want to provoke chaos so that the two of you can climb up and dominate? For the institution of the school advisor, there is a manifest trend in disrepute and vengeance of the last and only support institution at school level, which manages school crises and provides practical counselling and social assistance to students and parents in collaboration with teachers in school class. The substitution of the consultants with the coordinators of training work is estimated to work counterproductively towards modernising and decentralising the Greek educational system, setting up a new structure, remote from the daily support of the school units. I am surprised to hear the Minister say: 'Is there any other proposal?'. I will ask, Minister: have you asked for another proposal? Just the opposite. They've been trying to meet you several clubs about the bill and deny them for eight months. And, of course, there is another proposal. And there is also a proposal from the PCA, the Panhellenic Association of School Counsellors, 15-page, to the former Minister, Mr. Phile, for over a year. With regard to n.d.152/2013, to which you referred: I am sorry you do not know what d.d.152/2013 said. By e.g. 152/2013 there was no dismissal of a teacher. A.D.152/2013 merely evaluated training executives. No redundancies were found anywhere. In addition, I come to the regional directors and to the training directors, selected by a central council chaired by an AACC official. Educational project coordinators and ERC heads shall be selected from the regional board headed by the regional training director as president. Why, Minister, should the coordinators not be chosen by a central council if you want to talk about upgrading the institution? Because obviously others are your pursuits. Everyone understands them. Because regional directors are partisan executives, fully controlled, while in the case of the central board with AACC, ECDC and ICPC members, it would not be completely controlled. And how can it be headed by the Selection Board of Regional Directors, who firstly is posthumous, secondly, has less qualifications than those assessed and thirdly, has he not been assessed? Can he, then, judge rated executives? That's why we're talking about trying to control your education and promote your party friends. And why don't you go ahead immediately and as a matter of priority to the selection of training managers whose term of office expires in a month? Of course, the excuse you said in the committee that there are pan-Hellenic examinations coming up is just as funny as the justification for the bill's urgency, because it says we are starting summer sections on 16 July. Others are your thoughts. And I wish - I'd be delighted to have you disprove me. Furthermore, the evaluation procedures for the management of unorthodox, from the bottom up, shall be laid down. And you start from the training project coordinators, whom you're trying to cut off with successive cutters. Today you have made a correction, to which you are giving them the opportunity of executives, who already have two terms of references to submit once again. But what about language learning? What about the reduction of seats from eight hundred and fifty in five hundred forty? Why did you do that? Obviously, only the good of education you don't have in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u103	Colleague, if you'd be kind enough to complete it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u104	I shall conclude, Mr President. I come to mobilisation, in which the way is unacceptable and the interview occurs to a dominant regulator of the selection of managers, since it is 82% of the scientific qualifications. It creates a clear heterogeneous relationship, which creates problems of validity and credibility. We do not just say 'no' to the bill, we say 'take it back'. Otherwise, once we become a government, we will abolish it, because that is the law and it will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Kelles. Mrs. Undersecretary wants to take the floor for a while. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a necessary clarification, because since this morning I have heard something repeated, for which I have given the answers. In fact, Mr Kellas has told me that I am taking part in cooperation with the ESDP. Mr Kelles knows very well from the common route we had in the various committees that this cooperation existed. I also told the committees, as you know very well - and in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, that we have come up with a finding concerning people with disabilities, which most of the House supported. You also know my professional property - I am a teacher of paediatric neurology - through which I have been associated with the family and children with disabilities for too many years. With regard to the protest brought by the ESDC, I must tell you that in the dialogue of articles on special education and education, the parental institution of the children has submitted its comments, which we have taken very seriously into account. From there on, in these three months I have been at this post, I have participated in two public interactive discussions - in one and the other, Mr Kella, if I’m not mistaken - with an invitation from the ESDC and from the UAE to attend and talk about issues of education and disability. It was an open interactive discussion with institutions, parents, children, and there was a second, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education. Regarding the fact that RESEMA was not invited, as you know, this was a decision for which the Ministry has no responsibility. In an attempt to get a certain number of operators, such a type of management was carried out by the Bureau. I think our relationship with ASEM is timeless and will continue to exist. The Ministry always has the doors open in this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u109	No answer, Mr. Kelles. I very much ask Mr. Chiara to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u110	Just give me a minute, Mr President. He needs an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u111	We don't have to open a dialogue. It's your colleague, then Mr. Theocharopoulos, and then Mrs. Gennamas will come.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u112	Thirty seconds give me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u113	I'll give you 20 seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I do not disagree with everything you say about committees, and so on. But the fact is that RESEMA was not invited and that is why she is making this strong announcement against you. Yes, in previous years you have had cooperation on other matters, but the bill tells you that you are on the wrong track and were not invited to the committee. As far as your medical status is concerned, I wanted to say that I too am a doctor. You know that very well. It's not personal. It's purely political. I, too, had a relationship with children with disabilities and even closer, since my wife is a 30 - year psychologist at a special school. So I'll tell you that I have a closer relationship than you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u115	Thank you. Thank you very much to Mr Theocharopoulos, who gave his approval for Mr Tsiaras to take the lead. It should be recorded in the Minutes. Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill coincides with the start of the pan-Hellenic examinations, which, with their completion, have also been heard by the Bureau earlier, will put an end to the anguish of thousands of candidates and their families. Unfortunately, however, there is no end to the agony of thousands of students who will remain within educational structures in the coming years, as the system of introductory examinations for the coming years has not yet been cleared by the Ministry. And, of course, not only does it come to an end, but on the contrary it multiplys the agony of the students and teachers, who will bear all the weight of the education ministry's experiments, on the multitude of education's management model, a burden which has a direct impact on the quality of the educational process. I will not personally analyse, in detail, Mr Gavroglou's legislation, which, while he promised exhaustive dialogue, has further made sure that he is avoided, in fact by choosing to introduce the bill we are debating today in the urgency process. Of course, I will not analyse the bill, because the rapporteur for Officerial Opposition, Mr Andrianos, has clearly highlighted all aspects of the criticism of the New Democracy. However, it is a bill that attempts - and we have pointed this out in fact since the first time it has been discussed - to salvage the administration of education in an unequivocally provocative and obvious way, since it establishes a 'cutter' for those who have already been two terms of office in an administration. The delay in the legislative process brought about by the Minister earlier, I think that nothing really changes. It is a bill that unresponsively abolishes the evaluation of teachers. It abolishes, in other words, the driving force behind the improvement of the educational process and of the teachers themselves. It effectively abolishes institutions that have proved over time that they strongly support the educational process, such as the institution of school advisors. It is a bill that blatantly degrades the special treatment by throwing its structures into the Caucasus of a new hypertrophic, hydrocephalic structure, completely remote - if not completely cut off - from the schools and the needs of the educational community of students and teachers. I would, however, like to stress the institutional issues raised by the way in which the bill was introduced. Firstly, this piece of legislation was initially presented for consultation - I think - in March with fifty articles, to finally have the presentation of the final draft law with hundreds of thirteen articles. The first issue, therefore, is raised through a practice which, to a very small extent, is repeated, if we add the last-minute amendments, which we already know exist, is that in fact only 1/3 of today's bill has been put forward for public consultation. Secondly, as has been rightly pointed out at the hearing of the bodies, this is not just a bill, but a bill, because it contains six different laws within it. Firstly, the law of reorganization or possibly disorganization - depending on the side on which one sees it - of support structures. There's a second law for selecting executives. There is a third law on primary and secondary matters. There is a fourth law for the Institute for Educational Policy. There is a fifth law on PPPs, and it is the sixth law that describes the other provisions. The third issue is an institutional matter. The implementation of this law, in order to become operational, requires dozens of transitional ministerial decisions and is oxymotive, Mr Ministers - the Minister is not here - the implementation of such a bill to be left to so many regulatory acts. Mr Ministers, the legislation exposes you multiples and exposes many members of the government majority who will be invited to vote in favour of it. I must point out a clear contrast. The conclusion of the national dialogue in 2016 - we are talking about a period of governance SYRIZA - in the committee of which the Minister, Mr Gavroglou himself, himself, and indeed in the capacity of the chairman of the Committee on Educational Affairs, not only did he not support the abolition of the school advisors we are voting on today, but instead he proposed in a completely different direction to upgrade the institutional role of school advisors. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we have asked you to withdraw this bill in good time. That is what the New Democracy colleagues have said. At best, sticking to your obsessions and your ideas, the worst in your micro-party perception of party administration in the sensitive area of education, you have not done so. However, I must admit that, shortly before the forthcoming elections, this as a Qualified Opposition, we are probably a little concerned about it, because this law of Mr. Gavroglou will obviously be abolished by the next government. The government of New Democracy will soon be abolished by the government of Mr. Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much Mr. Chiara. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill once again we are faced with the unprecedented contempt of the own parliamentary procedure. And, of course, through it and the contempt of the educational world. On 20 March the bill was published and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities with fifty articles. In May, in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, there were hundreds of thirteen articles, five hundred eighty-six pages, in the form of an emergency, while this bill was in discussion with the institutions for a certain period of time. As if we are decors, as a Member of the Change Movement said, we are working in the House not to make proposals, to improve, to change the bad texts, but to confirm them. So we're not playing this role. You rushed to declare that we must hurry and complete the process for September and the new school year to find us ready. And if that's really so, and if you're not really trying to pass through fast track scanning processes in education, are the hundred and thirteen urgent articles for September? I can bring you dozens of examples that confirm that they are not. You are proving again how important you are in understanding such crucial issues. For three and a half years there has been no institutional dialogue on education issues. The National Education Council has never worked under the responsibility of your Government. This is another example which shows that the government does not seek national understanding even on the issues of education, which should be the ones which political forces should be able to come to an agreement. Education is a valuable social asset, because quality public education, which reduces inequalities, needs the weakest and most importantly needs it. Not only international studies, but also the practices of specific countries, have shown that education is one of the most important factors in economic development. This is where the basis of personality, knowledge, innovation, extroversion lies. This is how the world of the future is built. That way we don't go back to the past. Although you claim to be reorganising education, you are completely derailing it. And the speech made by the rapporteur for the Democratic Association under article has shown you that you are doing so. You have caused vertigo in society, parents, students, teachers with what contradictory you sometimes leak according to your micro-party interest. I'm going to the subject of the pan-Hellenic exams. First of all, we wish the students every success. We hope that they will be able to come out of this test substantially more powerful and with the knowledge that is needed. However, I come to this issue to highlight the populism of Mr Tsipras first. He promised in August 2017 a change in high school and system of introduction to higher education, abolition of pan-Hellenic exams and free access. And I use "promise", because as usual promises works. During 2018 and so far you have told your Government everything. National census, pan-Hellenic after high school, pan-Hellenic in high school, intra-school exams, centrally organized exams, no exams. You've been awkward to everyone. Your Government, of course, is common in these tactics. ‘No’ to the memorials, but ‘yes’ to harder memorials, clean outlets, but with intensive memorial supervision. And a lot more. But in this way, you are sending logic to history's timeline. And after you made the bill on the reform of the high school and access system public, just a few days ago the Ministry let the press leak back to the bond system. There are no words. At the same time, of course, today, Mr Tsipras, on his tweet for the Greek examinations, states that education is the investment in the future of the country. It says attributes: "We serve to upgrade education and its role in society. Investment in education is an investment in the future of the place." It says, in other words, exactly the opposite of what it does. Indeed, investment is the place where education is concerned. However, this is not the case with these policies, because your Government is no longer judged by policies pursued, not by theories and words. Just to say it about the pan-Hellenic exams, any change of understanding and responsibility. In any case, we must not lose the successful system of objectivity and see how we can improve dignity. Because you, in the way you handle it, create a confusion and risk losing objectivity and dignity. So a lot of attention is needed on such sensitive issues when we open them up in the public debate without being prepared for the changes that we are going to make. At the same time, of course, the most important issue to be tackled at last is that, as far as education is concerned, the country will not go beyond the crisis. And here I come to another contradiction. While, in fact, you have communiqué commitments, which are also demonstrated by the cuts you are making here - for example, the reduction in the number of school advisors, now you call them otherwise - to reduce costs, you refer to your speech in the committees in reforms and again in reforms. Now, is there really any reformist breath in these changes? Unless we continue to abuse the term'reforms'. Reforms are neither deregulation nor simple regulations. In this environment, then, you also testify to this bill. With the regulations promoted, the educational system becomes more centralised, hierarchical and bureaucratic. Education is the most important institution in need of decentralization. And you assemble all support structures for schools. You are recommending the MAGPs, which are now absorbed by scientific guidance departments, school advisors and regional training centres. Is your legislative initiative based on a proposal signed by a scientific group? Is it consistent with good practices, which may have arisen from its application? You completely abolish the institution of the school advisor, the main support institution close to school, and you replace it with a bureaucratic body at the headquarters of each region. There is no doubt that every institution has its problems when it operates and how they should be improved. Not to be abolished, however, without taking positive steps and moving forward to improving them. In fact, you are giving this structure greater responsibility, without having been sufficiently staffed by the necessary personnel. As I told you, instead of upgrading the role of training coordinators, you are reducing their number from eight hundred to five hundred forty, weakening teaching and scientific support. And really, according to what study, what logic has this figure emerged? At the same time, is it possible that the choices of training staff should start hierarchically from the bottom up? In other words, there will be the first choice of training coordinators - and indeed from your own executives, regional managers - after which the training directors will be appointed and at the end of the day regional managers. If political purposes are not concealed, we invite you to dismantle any suspicion and start the process from the top to the bottom, an imprecise procedure that will initially provide for the selection of regional directors, through an open selection, and then follow the normal order. As far as the criteria for selection are concerned, without any clear conditions being laid down for each responsibility, you are establishing the same criteria for moleculosis for all, regardless of the competences. You're equating everything, but you're equating it down. And it seems that, unfortunately, you do not learn from your mistakes in your government. In this sensitive area of education, the government has not been interested in merit, but in controlling it. This was in 2015 - since I am talking about mistakes - and this continues to do with regard to the thirteen regional training directors and changing their way of choosing them. Twelve had been selected by SYRIZA and one of the ANELs. The result, of course, was also to be judged unconstitutional. You are now proposing a new framework for selecting managers, unscientific and in many parts of the anxiocratic. You are introducing exclusions for those who already have two terms - you have made an improvement here, in fact, so that it does not apply immediately - but you are actually excluded in advance from all the staff of training with experience in management. And if you don't listen to us, the report of the Scientific Service of the Parliament tells you. ‘I have a concern...’ - I have features - ‘if a system of terms which is applied, excluding a large number of persons having a position of responsibility, to be re-evaluated not only for the same positions but also for similar positions and especially for reasons not relevant to their qualifications and experience, it is compatible with the above principles’. That is exactly what we were telling you before. Of course, the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament notes other things, such as the concentration of responsibilities, for example, in the EPA, in the Rules of Procedure, where it will be done by a decision of the Minister of Education and Research. And as he says - and rightly says - 'Training must be done by a presidential decree and not by a ministerial decision'. And, of course, there are many other topics, such as the teaching service of educational project coordinators, such as highlighting the interview to a dominant regulator of the selection of managers, as the Panhellenic Association of School Counsel says in its memorandum: "The interview creates an obvious heterogeneous relationship which creates problems of validity and credibility". We had the problems last decade, in 2008, with all these issues, and now in another form. The Change Movement, ladies and gentlemen, has a programme rather than a sterile opposition. He has tabled clear improvements. We insist, for example, that there should be a systematic assessment, not instantly, not a closed club of training coordinators. Of course, the word "assessment" brings you a turbulence. I'm glad you said, Minister, that you are definitely abolishing the evaluation. To reach agreement: where it was wrongly structured, to improve it, to change it. But what you are saying is that from now on no evaluation is needed, because we are not ready. Is it possible to tell Greek society at the moment that, in a sector, we are not institutionalising any kind of evaluation? And is that how we can move forward? Listening to your speech, I really think you were opposed to opposition. Most of the time you spoke dedicated it to what the Opposition did. You know, I very much avoid speaking with advice of the kind: 'to get out into society', 'to get out into society'. The world's blooming about partyism. And society says it's bumped. That is our perception, and that is what we need to change. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not concerned with the degradation of your policy. She's already degraded. It is our concern to free the education from what is currently enunciating it, to provide it with an effective and decentralised system of administration. In education, however, there is a need for national understanding. No obsessed, no ideologies. Progressive areas are required. They are the ones we are planning in the Democratic Participation and in the Change Movement. We're here, against every maintenance that keeps the space and the country's pathogens. We will remain stable in this respect, because we owe it primarily to the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. I would ask the President of the Democratic Incorporation Parliamentary Group to come to Step, Mr Fofi Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my thoughts today are in all the children who give the battle of the pan-Hellenic examinations, filled with stress, but also with real hope. I wish them, and wish them good luck and strength. I hope that their efforts will catch a place, because today's studies are indeed an important goal for young children, but also an excellent provider for their lives. That is why, in most countries today around education systems, social and political consensus is being formed. And that's because the goal is common, it's one: an educational system that offers knowledge and skills, valuable equipment for the life of young children. Unfortunately, what is self-evident about the rest of Europe and the world, for us here in Greece, is still the thing to do. Especially now that the cataclyst has no end to SYRIZA - ANEL's education policy. Curfew, client relations, depreciation of successful institutions and structures, hunting of excellence, levelling, dissolution, regression. You have, Minister, been fully aware of the damage you have done over the years in the field of public education, so you are avoiding dialogue. You cannot withstand criticism and choose quick procedures in this House every time so that the opposite view is heard. But you should know something. This so-called left-wing policy of yours is nothing but interest arrangements that ends up being a tough, class policy. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Why? Because it mainly affects young people from the people's classes. Because it is obvious that the children of the wealthy families find their way out of there, they find a way out of private education and above all abroad, because the fleeing abroad with your own policy starts immediately after high school. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with people, but also with perceptions that the future of the country and the new generation is not their priority, they do not care. With the policy that you are following in the field of education, you also carry water in the New Democracy mill, which is trying to be a guarantor in the field of education without having anything innovative and not really believing in the value of public education. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And I ask: why is it really urgent for the bill to be discussed in this process? What commitments have you made? Why do you benefit from the parliamentary procedure in this way? Obviously, I say, before everything, to get news as few people as possible, what you are trying to do just once again in education, but we will not do you a favor. Let's take one - one of the issues: Firstly, you are abolishing the Presidential Decree on the evaluation of teachers and arable - as a result of a troika, restore the evaluation of the school unit established between 2010 and 2012. Yes, sir. Then let me just remind you that you stoned it and abolished it. Rave-- she was out of work, and all this was at the expense of education. But the more correct, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the evaluation of the training unit, the more correct and necessary the evaluation of the training unit. One must complete the other. Of course, you'll tell me one of them has votes, the other doesn't. To be serious, we must guarantee security for the work of the teacher and assess his development. Secondly, you abolish the institution of school advisors, one of the most democratic educational institutions that was established by the government of Andreas Papandreou has vindicated the fight for teachers. An institution that has been documented over time with a positive sign, and has not had the necessary support, to tell it all, to speak frankly. The school advisors have offered and offered a lot to education in problems of learning difficulties, intra-school conflicts, behavioural problems, interventions by parents and frictions between teachers, because they have and have scientific knowledge, but also experience to face crises and propose solutions. Do you abolish this institution without any evaluation, without taking into account the reports of the Committee on Dialogue which you have ordered and in their place what you are doing? You're creating new bureaucracy for new ruffles. Thirdly, you create new customer relationships in the most sensitive area. Listen. In the field of education, the State's model is of particular value, in other words, that it respects transparent procedures and merit. Instead, you enter molecules processes and molecules that prepare for the choice of the minister's best friends and virtues. With unprecedented manipulations, such as the selection of bottom-up executives, you attempt to "stabilize" education, giving the worst example of the favorableness and domination of the ruptured. But you should be aware that these interventions will not be long-term. It is one of the first to be abolished to give the message that there is a worthy of sovereignty in this place at last. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Fourthly, you create major problems in special education. Instead of strengthening the functioning of CEDEFOPs, and in particular in the part of the support, a merger is anticipated. So we return to the medical model and queues for simple diagnoses and not to substantial interdisciplinary evaluations, in order to support students, as they should be. It is a return of decades in the sensitive area of special treatment. Who's gonna pay the marble? Before all the children and of course their parents and teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that we are voting against this bill. It's a attitude of responsibility to children, families and teachers. But I would like to point out, Minister, that this bill is not the only one that will mark your term of office. You have very serious responsibilities for the unacceptable situation in higher education, which concerns both you, but above all Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister himself, who is consciously choosing the path of degradation for educational institutions. You have abandoned the universities at the mercy of violence and lawlessness. From education and concept trafficking centres you convert them with your tolerance to different groups' orchestras and illegal centers. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This is the real abolition of asylum. See what's going on at the Polytechnic University, what's going on in ASAOEE, what's going on in Aristotle Thessaloniki and so many others. I cannot help but close my position with the alleged abolition of the pan-Hellenic examinations. We have the following phenomenon here, Monday, Wednesday, Friday you are abolishing them. Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, bring them back. Finally stop playing at the expense of children and their families. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] In conclusion, I would like to say that, with the neck loop on the issues of the economy and the deterioration and minelisation of the issues of education, you are not just dissolving the present, you are undermining the future. Fortunately for the country the countdown for you has begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u123	The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u124	I didn't have the illusion that she'd sit down and hear some kind of answer from Mrs. Gennamas. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] You know, it matters...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Group, please be quiet. The Minister will give his answer to us. We have also heard your President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u126	From the beginning again. Because, obviously, a person writes all the speeches, because they are all identical. It's a surprise to me. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. However, especially the colleagues of the Democratic Association and the Change Movement, I see that they are identical. They really are all the same. Take care of yourself, because these Minutes are going to be studied one day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u127	Twenty-two minutes you didn't say anything about the bill. Nothing, a word you didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u128	Easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u129	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u130	Look, Mrs. Gennamata said that the New Democracy has nothing to show innovatory. You would assume that she does. Can I tell you something? I do not want to name it, but there are and look at the Members - not a Member - from your side of the House who came, they asked for information, we asked them what else they wanted, hours we sat down, we disagreed, we agreed. For us, that is the dialogue. I understand there's a evidence of guilt and nobody wants to say what he's done. But there's something else. You talk about 'closeing school advisors', over and over and over and over. It's not abolished. Can we accept that? However, school guidance ceases to be a personal center. That's a change of philosophy. You mean to say he's gone? But don't say that the school advisor is being removed. Say that the logic of personal guidance is abolished. What I do not tolerate is to say that 'all this is done so that the Minister's best friends can get their hands on this.' All right, these things aren't said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u131	Not only.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u132	Not only. And other people's best friends. Yes, sir. So it's the Minister and his company, SYRIZA all. I told you, I don't know if you were here, so I think it puts us in a sense that we're very dumb. Because only handsome people would make a whole system like that to bring their best friends. We had very good plans to copy. I say it and I say it again, you fool you must be to do that kind of work. The regional training directors, who are politically appointed, whose invention was they, remember? PASOK, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u133	Yes, but you also have your own members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u134	That's what we're changing with S.H.I.E.L.D. now. You haven't read.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u135	There were your regional managers as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u136	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not open up a dialogue. Let the Minister finish to move on. There are many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Kelles said something important. We keep it, because it confirms what we're trying to say. It says that "there were your people, when we had appointed some." We are opposed to 'yours' and 'ours'. Do you understand that, yes or no? What we are saying is that there should be no such kind of'services'. I say, therefore, by greeting this incredible work that the people we have appointed, and now we are entering change processes, because they have done an incredible job, they are in an incredible establishment in education, to try and change it, and those who are able to take these jobs. The last thing I want to say, however, is not to underestimate Mrs Gennamas, who obviously does not know what the woman is about, that it is illegal for universities. It underestimates society as a whole. Let's see what they're characterizing. And I invite her to go to various universities together. Don't tell me down in Exarchia. Let's go to the universities. That is unacceptable, but that is not the case with all universities. Don't underestimate them and degrade them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Theoharopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u141	Shouldn't there be a dialogue in this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u142	Okay. It addressed the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u143	Minister, I listened carefully. Because our criticism was targeted, in particular, with arguments, this was probably annoyed by the Ministry. Let me tell you that first of all, we cannot accept the general criticism you had just had, that is, one who writes the speeches, and that is what you criticised us. Let's answer the questions. And of course, the speeches of the whole opposition will include the elements that we see to be deadlocked. When, for example, on the question of evaluation we tell you and we show you that you are progressing in a deadlock, perhaps too many speakers will show you this in the same way. Because that's the problem. But you are not saying the same thing about those bodies that, in a identical way, all of you have said that what you are doing with school advisors, in essence, is backwards. I read the committee minutes. All your institutions have said that. And to the bodies - which told you in the committees - one actually writes them the speeches? I would ask, at least, that the arguments be specific, programming. Secondly, you said that we are talking about the fact that the aim of the regulations often seems to be to make people really comfortable in a narrow circle away from democracy. We've documented it. We tell you that you put thirteen regional directors in 2015, twelve of your own and one of the ANELs, without any worthwhile process. I told you in my speech that the choices of training directors to start up from the bottom and not the opposite. First, you are selecting the training coordinators from your own staff - the regional directors are essentially yours - after the training directors and at the end of the regional directors. We told you, we challenged you. If political aspirations are not concealed, dismantle any suspicion and start a process from the top to the bottom. You refused. So you confirm with this tactic that once again this issue is the only thing that concerns your Government that Mrs Gennamas has said to you, that you will not be able to find a world without merit in a period of time - from now on - which is a quasi-election. Finally, on the issue of asylum. Asylum is an asylum of ideas. It's not criminal and infringing acts of asylum. Minister, what we are telling you is that you refuse to see that we have to resolve a matter progressively, not to leave it to the conservative forces. And we need to resolve this so that what is happening in the field of universities doesn't happen. Because, indeed, the Greek universities can - if we give them the opportunity - be the headline for new ideas for the country. Instead, you still didn't answer anything. You said to see how the universities work. We know how the universities work. And you know it, you're a professor. I therefore think that the state should at last respond in a concrete way to this matter. Do we want universities not to be the forerunners of such criminal and infringing actions or not? That is what we need to respond to, because we really need to protect the asylum of ideas rather than the asylum of criminal acts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much. However, if you will allow me, we should not generalise and say that all universities are forerunners. For God's sake! Mrs. Antoniou, excuse us, finally come on. You're up, and you've sat down three times. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason - it says - for five minutes to the Members for hundreds of thirteen articles and hundreds of provisions. Only for Article 99 on research, it takes ten minutes to explain to the citizens what exactly you legislate. Minister, you have a full responsibility for the unacceptable parliamentary procedure, which only democratically can you characterize. You are, moreover, of the logic 'fast, roughly, ideoleptically'. "Lie, wipe, you're done," if they can't get any reactions up. So this bill, dear colleagues and colleagues, as the institutions have heard, brings together the reaction of Anti-Population and of the whole educational world. So let's go see why these hundreds of provisions of this bill come. Why? Because it is a bill expressing the deep ideas of the government and demonstrating the effort to establish a party army in the field of education administration. You have left no part of the public sector, after all, inconceivable from your party interventions. The Foreign Minister, Mr Baxvanakis, made it quite clear yesterday to the committee. I use exactly his words, and I submit the minutes of yesterday's committee: "Don't worry about this, ladies and gentlemen, left people are not interested in the vast majority of chairs. We do not find people willing to take on many of the responsibility.' He told us, in the face of the fact that they are looking to serve the responsibility of their own! This, ladies and gentlemen, is even older than the old. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] But it is something else that shows one truth, that, in fact, the left are not willing to take responsibility. They've only learned to do propaganda. They haven't learned to work in their lives. Let us see what are controversial provisions of the establishment of the party state. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] First, the staff who are already serving in the administration of education, regardless of their value, qualifications, experience, are removed. You are setting up a new procedure for selecting executives with procedures and conditions fully undeclared and unconstitutional. You have become accustomed to there in the Ministry to legislate unconstitutionally and to come the decisions of the U.S. and overthrow them. Absence of APA, absence of hierarchy in choice. Instead of starting from the top down, you start from the training project coordinators. Unrecognition of teaching experience. And of course, the most clearest, Article 30, which, today, after the intense criticism, you are trying to round it up. A provision that was similar to that which was not in the public administration anywhere and, unfortunately, lacked education from all the experienced executives. Secondly, you abolish school advisors, the last and only support institution at school level, which has proved to be offering over four decades. The existing educational structures with a tradition of years, computer centres and new technologies, environmental education centres, school heads offices, replace them with new hydro-heads and impersonal structures, away from the school unit and the educational act. Thirdly, you are abolishing the evaluation of teachers by Article 37. Your abhorrence to every sense of evaluation, excellence and merit is known. But this assessment provided by the school unit directors, by the teachers, is with anonymous questionnaires, without a surnamely substantiated justification and without the possibility of an instructor questioning and counteracting the crisis of some people. It is an evaluation that only you can think of, understand and legislate. I will, however, concentrate on Article 99, which contains provisions on research, although it is not much time, but I will try. Provisions which have never been put into public consultation, for which the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotakis, has to give many answers. Minister, first of all, with the provision in paragraph 3, you come and fully confirm all the objections and criticisms we have raised to you in the debate on the draft law, but also in a number of parliamentary questions, about the conflict of interest, of interest, of interest, of interest, of interest, of the members of the bodies of the EMI. We have been calling it the first time that the potential beneficiaries cannot participate in the institution and in the institutions. They cannot be the same who submit proposals for funding with those who evaluate and decide, i.e. "Yiannis drinks, Yiannis buys" we told you. And Minister, Mr. Gavroglou, you were the rapporteur for this bill. And you're coming today and you're trying to get the uncompromising together. After the number of complaints about the evaluation committees of the ELIDEEC, their members and the way they decide, everyone has understood what we said from the outset, that ELIDEEC was nothing more than a mechanism to direct funding where you wanted. That is why we did not vote for it. That is why you want to do this with your own people. In addition to the officials you have already been to ELIDEC, you come with paragraph 4 of Article 99 and join party forces to seconded civil servants. So what do you say to us in paragraph 4? Candidates to be seconded to the EMI will be assessed by a three-member committee, which - what a surprise - will be defined and fully controlled by you. And, of course, we are talking about secondments in violation of the texts. In all your bills, and everywhere, there is the term 'within the scope of the texts'. So answer me, why don't you just answer these provisions? With paragraph 2, you can, on the one hand, increase, retrospectively you say, from 1 September 2016 the funding, the budget for actions - calls already published by the ELIDEEC and, on the other, transfer funds from the ELIDEEC budget to the EMI of GDR. And I ask you, Minister, since you're here. Why don't you make new regular notices, so there can be a continuity and regularity of notices, rather than you choose to share retrospective money in actions that have been published two years ago? Didn't some of the suggestions made by friends for a while and you want to take care of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u146	Mrs. Antoniou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. Paragraphs 5 and 6 allow research centres and HEIs to grant scholarships, but you are not telling us the criteria and the conditions, and we are probably the impression and suspicion, if not the belief, that these grants will result not in the excellent but in the good ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u148	Madam Colleague, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u149	Finally, as we pointed out, the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will restore all the affected institutions, ensure an objective and fair evaluation for teachers, a worthwhile selection of managers and a better future for the educational world, but above all for our children who are currently starting in the pan-Hellenic exams and I want to wish them good success and good power through my heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u151	Do you want to intervene or comment? Because we need to set a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u152	I think it's a clarification I have to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u153	You know, because there is a series of speakers, we must avoid commenting on their speeches...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u154	I want to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u155	That is what happens sometimes, but it is better to keep comment on our speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u156	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u157	We're talking for thirty seconds, that's.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u158	We've been talking for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u159	Two minutes, however, it's an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, this procedure which the Minister answers after every Member of Parliament is saying is not a parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u161	It can't be done, please. For a minute, you have the floor, but please, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u162	Yeah. Very quickly, I will begin by referring to the fact that paragraph 3 would normally be in agreement with Mrs Antoniou, because it is obvious. The members of the Scientific Council, which selects the evaluation committees, make the evaluation process and final classification, cannot participate in the call process, submit their own proposals. It's self-evident. But come on, there's a very big suspicion from the academic community. A suspicion that has been created many years ago that everything is set up, that everything is done in a way that is not the right one. That's why we put this paragraph in. I would like to say here, because you leave it with suspicion that we have put the paragraph in order to favour our own party armies, our own children, that this is a disgrace to the members of the scientific board, because it means that these are not our own children, which is completely from the point of view of the ELIDEC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, that matters, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u165	But it matters...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u166	Wrong impressions are created either because of ignorance or because of stressful opposition, and the impression of the mistake that is created is as follows: The increase in budgets has been because there have been thousands of participations in the notices that have been made and, of course, this does not reflect anything but that for seven years there has been an absolute drought both in terms of recruitment and in terms of the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u167	Proclaim again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and five educational sessions from the 5th Municipal School of Trikalon. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Contogiorg has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, influenced by the continuing interventions of the Minister, I would like to express a question that has been taken together in society these days. Minister, if the changes you are proposing under this bill are for our own good, as you said, how is society able to react as a whole? Can you explain it to us? How can the education community as a whole react? Can you give an explanation for this? I shall now come to my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the plenary is called upon to draw up a draft law on the sensitive area of education. Once again, the Minister of Education writes in the oldest of his shoes the Constitution of the country and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, in the pretext of cheap justifications. In fact, however, he wants "fruit" legislation to be passed, which obey only the logic of SYRIZA and the absolute partyisation that seeks to achieve all the structures of primary and secondary education. We are not surprised by the Minister's attitude or the way he legislates. What really amazes us is the behaviour of a number of SYRIZA colleagues who, although they have served in all the education support structures, have discovered in the last three days the enormous shortcomings in all these structures. In a normal country, with politicians who respect the Constitution and democratic institutions, Minister, each legislative initiative should obey the needs of modern society and the need to adapt to innovations that ensure its continued progress. Unfortunately this legislative initiative of the government also has the entire educational community to its mind. And its documentation does not convince the government trade unionists either. Because both our rapporteur and all colleagues in anti-population and the representatives of the bodies have 'drinkled' any of the Government's arguments about the changes proposed by this draft law and about the economy of time, I will not repeat what is about its stability and opportunism. I will, however, focus on the provisions of this draft law and on the changes which it provides for in the structures to support the education of disabled people. I would remind the House that in 2016 the SYRIZA - ANEL Government made the so-called national dialogue on education, in the conclusions of which special education was a priority, while its main pillar of support was CEDEFOP. What changed in two years and the Minister, without any evaluation, abolishes the CEDEFOPs and proposes a new institution, the CESY, undermining their role? Did the fact that at that time Mr. Friend was Minister? Are the consequences for the parents and families of children with disabilities measured, who with the new institution will be invited to visit the medical diagnostic centres, to assess their children and to draw up special support programmes? At the same time, it degrades the role of special education teachers and effectively cancels their function, since they clearly have a secondary role in the diagnosis and operation of the new structures of PCIs and KESHs. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion with a hundred and thirteen articles and a host of fragmentary arrangements is the greatest proof of manipulation and party control of all primary and secondary education support structures. It abolishes useful and time-tested structures of education with new dubious efficiency and partisanly controlled, which opposes the whole education community. It abolishes all forms of objective evaluation of teachers with "blue" anonymous systems, which you do not meet anywhere in the civilised world. She is experimented irresponsibly with children with disabilities and with special learning difficulties, without the necessary sensitivity to such a serious issue. The whole project has undertaken to carry out once again the one known for Mr. Gavroglou's seemingly minor character. It is absolutely certain that today's trilogy - the laws on higher education and research have preceded it - is completing its party statute. I will remind him of the ancient saying of Agathon, the tragic poet: “The ruler of three sees memorial: First, that he is ruled. Second, that according to law is dominated. Thirdly, there is no precedent. In a free translation, Minister, you must bear in mind three things: firstly, that you are commanding people, that is, spiritual beings who have a crisis, logic and emotion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. Secondly, that you must command in accordance with the existing laws of the state, written and unwritten and, therefore, it is unacceptable to go beyond excesses, arbitrary and unjustified. And thirdly, that you will not command eternally. The time is near when you will be extinguished your service and then it will be clear whether you have left good impressions or will receive the lameness of society. In view of the above, I am voting against this draft law, both at the outset and on the articles. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Kerameau, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is seriously suffering both from procedural and substantive issues. It is a bill objected by all the opposition parties, a bill which the New Democracy has asked for for for serious reasons, which our rapporteur has explained in detail. Minister, I am very sorry - and you know that I am always very careful in my wording - but the lies that have been heard in recent days are a touch. They're not inaccurate, they're not silences of truth. It's a lie. On the subject of the procedure, the bill was submitted to the House late on Friday night, to be discussed in committee on the next working day on Monday. They are hundreds of thirteen articles, five hundred eighty-six pages, hundreds of arrangements for processing and voting within three days. And all this while the consultation was completed two and a half months ago. So it could well have been discussed with normal procedures. You said, Minister, to the committee, but also to yesterday's interview: 'How do you do that? Since 24 October we have sent the bill to the parties. The bill has been discussed for eight months and has been placed in the public consultation." Here, for the Minutes, exactly what you have said. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Liar! In our party, at least, no bill was sent. In October you made this public here, Minister, a seventeen-page brochure with your thoughts on support structures. What does that have to do with this six-page bill we are discussing today? It's the same and I imagine that for you. As for the public consultation, it lasted only ten days and was mainly made public by just fifty one of its thirteen articles. That is why the institutions have denounced their surprises to such a large extent by the Ministry. You said yesterday in your interview: “How do you do? The difference in urgency from the normal procedure shall be three meetings instead of four.’ Liar! Minister, the main difference in urgency from the normal procedure is that in the urgent draft is debated for three days. Normal for how long? For about three weeks. They have plenty of time for the parties, the MPs and the institutions to work out and expose opinions. Most of all, however, - and this is what I am dealing with here - you issued a written statement on Sunday, in response to our criticism of this bill, that you are completely abolishing the evaluation of teachers. In your communication you described e.g. 152 on word as a 'neo-liberal abortion which provided for a specific and binding rate of redundancies'. I'm presenting your communication to the Minutes. Lie one more time. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I asked you to tell me exactly what part of the item in item 152 there is provision for a certain percentage of redundancies. So you had to pack. You said yesterday in an interview: 'As you know...' - these are the Minister's words - 'Some laws get content because of their history. In spite of the fact that it does not anticipate the same, it has been identified by evaluation to make redundancies." Is it possible for a government official to lie about such a serious issue? Is that the poverty of your political arguments, which you are resorting to in propaganda, to satisfy a audience that you have already lost? Then you had to repurchase by saying: “Okay, the decree does not say it, but society interpreted it. This is how history interpreted it." But what do you say, Minister? According to your words, we should close the House and go home, since it is history and society that make sense to the provisions that apply. I am tabling a motion for a resolution (Doc. B3-152/90) on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, in which there is no reference to redundancies. I urge you to deny me. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the essence of the question of evaluation. You, Minister, do not abolish the evaluation of teachers because it was linked to redundancies. Because nowhere, but nowhere, there's no such connection. You are abolishing the assessment, Minister, because you are ideologically, obsessively, contrary. Because you are desperately trying to be pleasing to a particular minority audience. Remove the evaluation because you want everyone's equation down. You abolish it for exactly the same reason that you abolished the school standards, for the same reason that you abolished the student's performance criterion in its choice as a marker in parades. Instead, you imposed the draw. You remove it for the same reason that you want to abolish all kinds of examination and evaluation for the entry of students into tertiary education. Everybody equals. But equals how? Straight down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need your tolerance for a while, Mr. President. For us, Minister, it is incomprehensible - and I stress this - that, in 2018, there is no evaluation for teachers, who will not be punishable, but will have a dual objective: rewarding the excellent and motivating those who do not perform so well. It is inconceivable that there should be no assessment of teachers in the eyes of students and their parents who are waiting for the public school to push his teachers and teachers into becoming ever better off to provide better services to children. It is, however, inconceivable to the teachers themselves who are watching us and who work hard under adverse conditions and want this hard work to be recognized. The New Democracy is obviously voting against this bill. And it votes against it because, beyond the issues of procedure, it abolishes the evaluation of teachers, because you abolish structures with a proven contribution to the educational process, such as school advisors, because you create new centralised structures away from the school unit, contrary to what international trends impose. We are voting against this bill because you are trying to salvage the administration of education with your party executives, including by limiting the possibility for any executive with experience to be a candidate for more than once. And you do that by means of provisions which risk once again being judged as unconstitutional by the Council of State. You significantly reduce the special treatment and add additional burdens to children with special educational needs. For all these reasons, which are severely affected by the educational process, the New Democracy is not only voting against this bill, but is committed to abolishing it as a priority. The New Democracy is committed to moving forward - and I close with this, Mr President - with a legislative framework for the school of the 21st century, a framework that responds to modern and constantly changing needs of society, a school which trusts its teachers and gives them the chance to take action with support structures that are close to the educational and school unit, close to their students and parents, in order to intervene in time and to prevent their needs with managements chosen with guarantees of transparency and integrity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u172	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u173	I'm closing, Mr. President. The New Democracy undertakes to go ahead with a school, Minister, with a potential that is not afraid of evaluation, but will seek it so that the public school can gain the place and authority it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, my colleague. The State Secretary, Dimitrios Baxvanakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pan-Hellenic examinations for the graduates of professional high school have been started today, and tomorrow the graduates of general high school are being placed in the same effort. I would like to wish all children success and good power from this position. Keep in mind that in life everything is never judged in a battle. They'll have to fight a lot in their lives. It takes strength to respond with courage to this great effort. We heard earlier the President of PASOK, who described the suffering that is happening in this country and felt that he was speaking looking in the mirror. He mentioned the four hundred thousand young people who left the country because of the policy of the memoranda. I have to say that it was absolutely accurate. That was the number of young people who left the country from 2010 to 2014. I must say, therefore, that Mrs Gennimata was very sincere in her self-criticism about the responsibilities of the PASOK government, whether self-evidently or in conflict with New Democracy, for this sad five-year period. Honestly, I felt that this was a sincere - I hope - self-criticism of Mrs Gennamas. We are talking about the bill that we are putting before the National Delegation about the structures to support the educational project. Is there of almost all the wings of this House an absolute refusal that is summarised in what phrase, even if it is not confessed? 'Do not change anything'. This is the result of any criticism. So things are good. Do they have any good? 2011 survey by the Scientific Institutes of OLEME, IOE and ADDES with scientific responsibility for Professor Bouzaki: In a sample of six hundred teachers with a question: To what extent do you think the school advisor helps you in the exercise of your teaching work? "Not at all or at all" answers 63% of teachers. Two out of three teachers answer that their school advisors help little or nothing in their teaching work. What does that mean? It means there's a problem. Of course, this does not embrace all the people who serve or serve in these structures, because we know all of us, those who come from a educational community or have contact with educational things, that there are not a few, but very many excellent colleagues who have served or served in all these support structures that have to show an admirable work, which our teachers are gratuitously recognizing. But there's a problem. Anyone who does not confess is obviously acting like an ostrich. So there is a problem, and they have to change things, and that's exactly what we're doing. What is the essence of the change? Today we are talking about structures, but they are practically facets, they are one-faced instruments, which act on the basis of lack of coordination. Everyone doesn't know what their side is doing. The health care officer, for example, often ignores fully what the activity of the environmental education centre is. This thing is going to be cured by this legislature, crossed by the mono-faced organs into collective structures that will support the educational work. Some say: "But these structures are far from the school unit. How will the coordinator of the training project go to the school he needs?" That's exactly what we're saying. He doesn't have to go there. The job of structures is not to solve the problem when it comes up. It is to be able to help our teacher, the schoolteacher association of each school all the time before, so that these colleagues can deal with the problem when and wherever it occurs. That's the job. We all say that we want the teachers' association to be the dominant body in school with responsibility for coordination and action on all issues. We all say it, but it looks like we don't mean it. We in this bill prove that we mean it. And we want these structures in the form of collectiveness, democracy, which we give them, to play this role. No activity, no action is abolished, as is risky. All the actions are ongoing, all the activities currently being done, will continue to be done and enriched with new ones. It's changing the form. And you know the criticism and most of the comments made in the consultation, you know very well that all colleagues come from people who serve or serve in these structures and the core of their criticism was who? That some of them unfortunately consider themselves to be identified with structure and consider that they are lifelong and irreplaceable. This thing doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. With irreplaceables, the cemeteries are full. There are no irreplaceables in life. We therefore say that there should be room for a new world that is highly qualified to offer from these positions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] With regard to evaluation, does anyone forget the climate of fear, the climate of terrorism in schools during the bleak period of 2013-2014? Does anyone forget what climate was happening with the n.M.152? Is it lying that two thousand teachers were made available in 2013 with the signature of Mr. Mitsotakis? Is it lying that hundreds of school advisors and managers of universities and TEI have been made available? Is that a lie? Because some of the New Democracy colleagues are getting out of their clothes. Are we imagining this from our minds? Didn't it happen? Not only did it happen, but it was the government of SYRIZA after 2015 that restored all these injustices. And in 2013, we had memos in 2015 and in 2016 we had memos. But in times of memorial service, those who fired, while in times of memorial times we were reincarnating. What, then, is the c.152 in the consciousness of the educational world? It is the synonym of the avenger mania of the then government against the educational world and against the public school. And, yes, this presidential decree the SYRIZA government sends it to the timeline of history. We'll never deal with this again. We are making law this wind of freedom and democracy that is drowning in public schools immediately after the 2015 change. The educational world has breathed, the climate of fear and terrorism is no longer there, and this is now law. What are we institutionalizing? The evaluation of all executives not only by their heads. And that is what many colleagues, particularly on the right, cannot understand. We say that they can have an opinion and have it expressed by the existing ones as well. So evaluation not only from the top, but also from the bottom. If you wish, ladies and gentlemen, that is the difference between the left and the right. And obviously many can't understand it and we don't expect them to understand it. Of course, we are establishing collective planning and collective evaluation of the educational work by the associations of teachers of each school. What do we do? We have turned the positions, the views of the educational federations, OLEME and the ILO into law, as they have been formulated for two decades. After two decades, these views are vindicated and made law by the SYRIZA Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u177	I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. We are accused of wanting to establish the SYRIZA party in education, and that is why we are making these changes and this legislation. You didn't have to, colleagues. If we wanted to establish a party state, the legislative framework was fine. We'd take it that way, and we'd do our job. But because we do not want to do the same you and we want an independent administrative hierarchy in education, that is why we are legislating in this way. So what do we say? That party selected regional training directors from now on will not be so. They will be chosen in a meritful manner, as will the other members of the training. You know that the regional directors don't create them. Life did not begin in 2015. We remember before. Since 2000, therefore, there have been regional training directors. You have had fifteen years at your disposal, colleagues of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, to choose that these people will be chosen in a worthwhile manner. You didn't. So SYRIZA does. We are the ones who choose to be chosen in a meritful way for regional training managers as well. In what punctual way? With a central selection board chaired by the AACC representative. So no matter how much you shout, no matter how much you grow, our differences are obvious and this educational world understands it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Secretary, please very much, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u179	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, to say something that most people know about, but it's important. By 2014, your own legislation was applicable, that regional training directors become self-just school advisors. So all of your children, all those who were appointed by PASOK Education Ministers and the Ministers for Education of the New Democracy, all of these children, became school advisors after the end of their term of office. We changed that. This will no longer be the case, and the only ones who do not have this beneficial effect are our thirteen. Our thirteen children will not become school advisors after the end of the term. They're going to school, because we think the teachers were hired at school, at public school, to serve our students from school class. Anyone who thinks this is a punishment, that it is a punishment, that it is a deterioration, that forgive me too much, but I think he should look at whether he should change his job. Good power!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Minister. Mr Theodoros Fortsakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on the bill on support structures for educational work and bad lies - let us say it at the outset - we are dealing with a bill with which the government is attempting to fully control the administration of education with preference to party officials. This bill changes the administration of education radically. It concerns very important issues and yet it has been introduced - and I say it, although many so far have said so, but I think it is really worth it to say it again, because it is a process that gives Parliament the full benefit of this issue - by the urgency procedure, without any serious cause. It was discussed in the committee with express procedures, which resulted in many of the actors, who were directly interested in expressing their opinion, not being able to attend the debate. Of the forty who were interested came about 1/3. This haste is completely unjustified. With effect from 16 March, the bill had been put in consultation and from 26 months after the public consultation had been completed there were two and a half months - for regular procedures to be tabled so that we can have a real, substantial debate. It didn't happen. In addition, the content of the bill has changed considerably since the consultation so far. A text of fifty of one articles had been put in consultation, whereas the one that was tabled in the House contains hundreds of thirteen articles, that is, more than twice the number of articles. This is, in fact, a new bulk text, which, together with all the accompanying texts, goes beyond five hundred pages. It's obvious that it's impossible to process in so few days. The government, in its usual practice, makes the parliamentary procedure a reality in the way it faces this very critical of our education bill, without leaving any room for any real discussion. It's a worrying tactic. But let's go to the point of the bill. In Article 17, the bill delivers and abolishes important structures for monitoring and supporting the educational project. Example: the centres for diagnosing, diagnosing and supporting specific educational needs, youth advisory stations, school guidance offices, information centres and new technologies, environmental education centres and, of course, the extremely useful institution of school advisors. The school advisor is in direct contact with the school, the director, any teachers, students, parents and is able to help resolve issues of scientific and pedagogical guidance and quality in education. If we needed an improvement in the institution, it could be done. We didn't have to go to abolishing the institution. However, I have previously heard the Minister who spoke and said that the New Democracy had designated school advisors 'his own children', perhaps considering that school advisors do not belong to the party area of this government, perhaps that is the real reason for the abolition of school advisors. The site of these structures creates new non-functional scientific and pedagogical superstructures, such as regional educational planning centres and educational and advisory support centres, structures characterised by centralism, bureaucracy, structures that are impersonal, structures that are remote from school units and which create additional financial burdens for the state. The main thing is that these structures are managed on the basis of party criteria and on unacceptable selection conditions. The choice of executives - and I refer to the articles from 21 to 36 - is made in openness and dignity. Examples: The restriction on the number of mandates of management officials, even if there was some improvement, the unfair exclusion from experience - obviously had some specific reason - was the assessment of training officials with anonymous questionnaires - unheard of! - the high importance of non-structured interview by parties controlled in the selection of training managers. I would remind you that of the forty-five molecules envisaged, the fourteen will in fact be a matter of interview. Even if the Minister today announced that recording will remain, the problem remains complete. A key tool for party desolation of the state is the executive selection councils. The presidents are government appointed regional education directors and members are reelected by regional education directors. Amongst other things, the school director will be also present, so at least the school manager will have the paradoxical to participate in a process by which he will select his evaluator. It really is a new phenomenon! In addition, this draft law, in Article 112, abolishes the evaluation of teachers. The government's "allergies" are known for all kinds of evaluation and merit, because it obviously fails to understand the contribution of evaluation to improving the educational work. With regard to the link that the Minister has tried to make in the Committee on Forumsical Affairs between e.g. 152/2013 on evaluation with allegedly dismissals of a punishing nature, it is clear that such a connection does not exist, because there was simply no punishment. Another thing is the violation of labour obligations, which lead to disciplinary sanctions, and another thing is the evaluation, which does not lead to any disciplinary sanctions, but to suggestions to improve the production of the work of the assessor. And we come to have this unprecedented: teachers will evaluate students, evaluate their heads, but they will never be evaluated. Another point - but important - is that the bill is completely downgraded by special treatment, by the introduction of experimentation, and in this very sensitive field of education, with only children, of course, who have learning difficulties.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Fortsakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u183	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Amongst other things, it is predicted that the evaluations of pupils instead of taking place in a educational and educational multidisciplinary framework will gradually take place in institutions of the Ministry of Health. From what I say, the purpose of the bill is not to promote and upgrade primary and secondary education, but to complete party education control and to satisfy close collaborative and party interests. Excellency's damaged! Determination's damaged! Education's harming! The new Republic - and our rapporteur, my colleague, Mr Andrianos - has said so - will not only vote against it, but has committed itself with its President that, first and foremost, these arrangements will be abolished. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Delis, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I think it has become a practice in the government now that the Memorandum Measures are going through quickly - quickly from the House. Today, it looks at the prerequisites of education in plenary, and it takes the anti-grassroots prerequisites for the fourth evaluation a week ago. And all this, of course, is being loaded, along with the previous ones, on the people's back for the years to come. At the same time, with a lot of courage he sells to the people the fairy tale about 'the end of the memoranda'. Every day, it appalls its partners - its lenders, but also its industrialists, bankers, shipowners and big businessmen, who rub their hands with the speed and determination of this and, of course, with its misappropriation to show black for white. The same with today's draft law on support structures for education, which are, in fact, fundamentally restructured in a direction, however, reactionary, anti-grassroots. And it could not be done differently, because these structures correspond to and serve its education and purposes. And Greek education, like any capitalist country, as a class education serves first and foremost the jungle of the capitalist market, the profits of capitalists and not the social needs of the majority. This is why the bourgeois state is being ticked on the cultural asset and does not guarantee it equally and fully to everyone, since its priority is to strengthen business groups in every way and not, of course, to the needs of schools. In this sense, the bill moves, because its false title on structures to support education cannot and does not hide its reactionary content, which actually promotes these structures in structures to promote and implement anti-education policy. So he is trying to enforce what the previous governments have not been able to do, even though they have tried very hard, that is, what the industrialists, the OECD, and the European Union urgently demanded. And I am talking about the infamous assessment of the cloak, of course, of self-assessment. In any case, however, this is one of the most important tools of anti-education policy for the complete delivery of schools to the market. It gives a strong blow to the already degraded area of special education, leading to the despair of children’s families with disabilities and special needs, pushing their children deeper into the margin of social life. It continues, of course, the policy of the former - alas! - on the question of the selection of training managers, where the decisive criterion - and let us not forget that you do not understand - will ultimately be their willingness to join in the service of anti-education policy, regardless of governmental variations. As far as the education of applicants is concerned, the bill provides for insufficient measures. Here, let us say that the government's responsibilities have been very heavy, which have been moving at the rate of turtle in this matter for three years. What really happened, Minister, with that finding of the Scientific Committee in 2016 on Friend Minister? Did the measures proposed by that finding have been implemented or was it spooked in a drawer? I will not talk more about the bill, because it has been sufficiently analysed by our rapporteur Manolis Syntagakis, and there is no reason, of course, for me to repeat it. On the occasion of the bill, however, SYRIZA's ministers and MPs have been coming here for days - and they think they have found the opportunity to advertise the entire education policy of the government and to rebuild the ballot game, the sigmatic controversy with New Democracy, which, of course, is an old caravans, knows this game to play well. What if the bill is a commitment and a Memorandum of Prerequisite? What if the memorandum that gave birth and this bill passed it together with SYRIZA and New Democracy in 2015? You guys there fight for the process, for the secondary ones, and you can hide that on the same road you are walking. And what we don't hear these days! Progressive reforms all over the world, from kindergarten, which has become compulsory for two years to university. Democracy, decentralisation, autonomy of schools, upgrading of special education, of the PESA and, of course, the slogan of normality, which the government allegedly brought to education. And today you say again - and that now goes beyond the limits of the challenge - that you are abolishing Law 3848, namely the Diamantopoulou Act. But do you well say this today that by law, with an article that was before an amendment and has been incorporated, do you remove pedagogical competence from the degree, so that everyone can buy it tomorrow from the market? Are you saying this today that Article 2 of Diamantopoulou takes it one step further forward? By the time you reinforce it, you come here and tell us that you're abolishing it? What can we tell you? The more you abolished the memos, the more you abolish the Diamantopoulou law. Let's see this famous decentralisation of school education and autonomy. Do you disagree between SYRIZA and the New Democracy on this, namely on the autonomy and decentralisation of education? Oh, no! SYRIZA, New Democracy, Change Movement and all the rest of you swear on them. They are, moreover, a key element of the education policy of the European Union and of the OECD. On this occasion, we ask you all, and the government, what exactly is your model of autonomy and decentralisation? Did the United States? Because, you know, there is no more decentralised educational system than that of the United States. It is so decentralised that, in schools in several of their states, the teaching of Darwin's scientific theory is forbidden, in other schools they become the parade of "COCA COLA" and "PEPSI" to function in all schools, and in virtually no state funding exists. This tragic situation has sparked the great recent strikes of American teachers who are treating with their students the 'good' of decentralisation! Is your model the decentralized German school, where the class selection, the "scanning" of the students to those few who will continue to receive the general education and the other many who will be sent to the technical schools without general education, still take place from the age of ten? Is that what you want? You can tell us clearly. Is it the Finnish model, which led other schools to operate in the ful after they found large sponsors and others, who could not find them, to be able to operate for 15 hours a week? Well, do you not know that even in Finland itself they are thinking about it again now, because research recently shows a fall in the level of education there due to decentralisation and that its good performance was ultimately due to the previous educational system? For the detailed curriculum, about the content of books that have been crippling the students' minds in our country for years with the unscientific and unscientific writings, teaching the cooking prostate, will you tell us anything? How many years do you want to rule to change all this? Or don't you want to change them? As for democracy, which you are tempting at all falls, go talk about it to the students of Trikala, Crete and other cities who are intimidated, expelled or even collect social work penalties because they dared to fight with their parents on a strike or because they claimed a better school. Really, Minister, what measures have you taken precisely for this wave of authoritarianism that is growing up in the schools of the country? How do you make this upgrade, anyway, to PSA? With mergers and abolitions of the new specialities and the cutting of hundreds of sections that you baptize 'olively', troubled by large, daily movements of children, mainly from people's, poor families? The terms and conditions of the school to improve the PSAs and not to see just the numbers on what's growing. And this firework now of compulsory two-year pre-school education didn't last that long. Even 30% of children do not cover compulsory and this does not cover a three-year horizon - that is, live to me in May - leaving out all the major urban centres in the country. You see, it is not enough to make an announcement, but it also takes measures to implement it. And of these, not one of them provided for by the law of SYRIZA, since neither the financing plan for the building of kindergartens existed, nor the recruitment of permanent staff was mentioned, nor anything. And like this, you did a hole in the water and you left thousands of children away from the free compulsory pre-school education and another basic popular need unsatisfactory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little tolerance, Mr. President. Thank you. Minister, leave the smarts for the 12-year-old education and the position of the JRC. This is where you don't make it compulsory for high school! You're Minister to a government and a country where her education is nine years old, she's not 12 years old. So don't you do this compulsory high school, and you speak and speak language in the JRC? The position of the JRC is timeless, it is well known for pre-school education: two-year-old, compulsory for all, but all children. And none of this said, but neither did your law. As for the special treatment, you yourself confess that there is still no record of the children who need it in 2018. You say yourself that only half of the seven thousand requests for parallel support have been met this year. And the other half that they need, what are they doing? Where are they? Your responsibilities are very heavy and you have no excuse or lightening. What kind of upgrade do you make in the special treatment when 70% of the staff working in it are substitutes? So where? In the area where a stable teaching relationship is the most important. Not to talk now about the inappropriate buildings in some of these special schools, such as the 2nd Special School in Pylia Thessaloniki, which is housed in former factory warehouses and in the meantime circulate and mice, or in Sepolis - here near - whose corridors have been transformed into teaching halls. And you, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Baxvanakis, may have gone to sanctification of a special school, as you said yesterday and found it all good, because the ministers always find it very nice to go, anyway - but you know that even today the year ends, there are children who don't go to their school, because your state has not taken care of their movement. In fact, there are other cases, such as with a single parent family whose mother on shift takes her disabled child to school whenever the shift allows her. Agios Athanasios Thessaloniki, May 2018, on school regularity, speaks of the Minister of Education. And when he says that, at the same time, he is preparing to lay off in a few days, thousands of deputies who are dragging behind in unemployment and uncertainty, mocking them once again that in October he will announce - he says - the number of recruitments with a three-year horizon. I mean, the known trick, Philie. And when he says these, many schools can't change one broken glass, since the money he's giving them can't even pay for a "hot". Where to spare, you see, money for the schools? The government's giving it to NATO. It gives EUR 4.2 billion, a higher amount than it is given for all education. When he says this a little bit out of here, at Ilioon a large primary school, he asks his adjoining schools chairs and cobbles, if they are abundant, because he has addressed the CCT, i.e. the state, which is not known for his speed to meet such requests. If it were for NATO and the Americans, it would be torn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u187	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, it is no longer the policy of education. It is precisely the same policy that breaks down wages and pensions, which ruthlessly plunges the people, who runs out of poverty and unemployment. Only the people can stop this with their struggle and their struggles and no one else. And the JRC will always be there next to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. My colleague, Mr Ioannis Steph, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if there was one way to ask the hundreds of thousands of teachers in the country if education is better today than in 2014, the vast majority would, yes, be much better at all levels. This is exactly what today's bill is trying to do, that is to improve education in the country's schools even more, a bill satisfying the differentiated needs of today's public school, as has been shaped by the social and educational reality of recent years. The need for a personalised approach to the educational peculiarities of pupils is now recognised as a mature demand for society. Using modern procedures and institutions, the bill strengthens the self-regulation of the school unit, widening its scope for autonomy in the teaching process, initiative and evaluation of its work, with a view to feedback. Furthermore, it recognises the importance of the role of teachers and strengthens them by designing a flexible organisational structure, within which the division of competences is clear, while at the same time teachers operate as continuous channels of communication, advisory support, scientific guidance and intervention. This is an innovative strategy that has fully understood the objectives and needs of the educational system, clarifying the landscape from the blurred flow and responsibilities. Above all, it recognises and meets the needs of students. Some, not finding arguments about the content and substance of the bill, as through the consultation and discussion of the last few days they have all fallen down, continue to raise obsessive procedural issues. Someone said "Why should it be urgent, since I want to go to the rally" and especially the Civic Opposition never learned that, apart from the eight months that this bill is being discussed, there has been an unprecedented preparation that includes a series of measures. Let's see what these are. Establishing two-year compulsory pre-school education. The New Democracy did not vote for it, and the JRC did not vote for it. A rapid increase in recruitment of skilled staff, since we are talking about special treatment, which the rapporteur spoke about a moment ago. For example, I am referring to the following. In special treatment by six thousand three hundred were raised to ten thousand eight hundred teachers. Establishment of thirty-six special education units for SYRIZA Government, where not one had been established for many years. Establishment of five hundred and seventy categories of integration, launching of an extra-hour compulsory working hours in special education and implementation of a full-day programme in special schools. Establishment of a special single vocational school and high school for the vocational use of people with special learning needs and other needs. I would stress here that such schools have been founded in remote border regions with a very small number of pupils. Finally, I want to remind you of the timely placement of teachers over the years, at the beginning of the school year and to inform you that already in schools are the books for the new school year 2018-2019. And all that you know is why it was done? Because it was fair. As for centralization and hydrocephalism, it is only a pretext for those who have been represented in previous years by conservation, verticalization and authoritarianism in education. In 2000, the regional director was set up as an institution in education. So far, basically the choice has been made on the basis of criteria that you know. We abolished this selection process and decided to do so by mobilisation of the ADP. Why are you shouting? The memories of the work of the New Democracy and PASOK have remained in the history of the Greek educational system as examples of targeting and organization. What should anyone want first? Diamantopoulou photocopies? International originality! What makes an impression, however, and reveals the culture of arrogance and arbitraryness, with which they decided at the time, is a recent interview, which, instead of at least apologizing, spoke about a change in education that does not respect the citizen's rights. I read Mrs Diamantopoulou's words:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u190	He said it last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u191	Yeah, he said it last year. "We have a seventy Communist Minister of Education and a 40-year-old Prime Minister, who, when the Berlin Wall fell, entered the Communist Party." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me two minutes, Mr. President. Missing Mr. Javarras, who made an in-depth Marxism analysis. And I want to say this. The truth is that unreserved neoliberalism, because that is why we are talking, apart from overcoming the interests of a large social majority that is fair, mainly leading to stripping from what is human and noble. That's exactly what's been happening with our children all these years. To forget about the "cut-down" of Loverdos and something that was systematically done with Arvanitopoulos and Diamantopoulou? What was the result? The disappearance of two thousand schools between 2010 and 2014, the hours of teachers - chat by the JRC - and students by class from twenty-seven to thirty. These are issues that we need to see in the process, Minister. Twenty-seven to thirty kids in kindergarten. We know very well who has introduced these in this country. Or are we going to forget the unsurpassed inspiration of Loverdo for voluntary work - do you remember that? - the undetermined teachers with the molecules? Another world originality! Or even the statement by the State Secretary of the New Democracy that children do not learn anything in kindergartens, that they are - says - in a classroom and play, paint, etc.Huh? How disrespectful of the role of teacher and early age! Finally, what demonstrates the depreciation of teachers is the recruitment of teachers in May 2013 by the then Minister of the New Democracy, when using the most extreme form of government autocracy, they sent the police officers to the neighbours of the teachers outside their homes, beat them the bells instantly, giving steps to the eyes of their children and their families. Today, it's not the bill that burns them. In fact it is the political void to which the New Democracy has been lost. A series of goals of her leadership were cancelled unreturned. Left-wing parentheses become history. Elections will take place at the end of 2019, the evaluations succeed, the exit from the memorandum is here, in front of us and the economic collapse never took place. The New Democracy has now been identified in the people's consciousness with ruthless business interests, complexity, corruption and scandals. The systematic propaganda attack on the government twenty-four hours a day from the coordinates of the mass media does nothing but provoke the common sense and provoke the intelligence of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens forget, but they do not forget the policies that have so far been implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another step towards the overall reconstruction of the educational system, which is a constant pursuit of our Government. The proposed provisions are the result of long consultation. At the same time, they implement requests from the educational movement and incorporate the accumulated long-term educational experience. Our aim is to ensure the right to quality public and free education for all, to treat the pathogens and to eradicate the imprint left by the neoliberal policies of the previous governments, policies that led to a suffocating, authoritarian, punishing and in many cases unconstitutional framework, in a continuous reduction in the costs of education, in punishment provisions for evaluation, in availability and redundancies, in opaque and undemocratic selection procedures for executives. The only objective was to gradually reduce and reduce the public education system. Against this background, for the second consecutive year after many years we have managed to increase public spending on education. With targeted institutional intervention, significant reforms have taken place at all levels of the education system. Amongst other things, we have a new institutional framework for the functioning of the HEIs, founding the University of West Attica, upgrading vocational education, establishing compulsory two-year pre-school education, full-time schools, special education and much more, which came and adapted smoothly and harmoniously to educational reality. Let us take a measure of what has been introduced by us that has the consequences that you constantly invoke. So, with this bill, we are moving on to key areas in the field of primary and secondary education. We are redesigning the support structures of the educational project, PECS, KEY, KEY, the school teams and, above all, the school unit and the school club of teachers, which emerges into a sovereign body for the establishment of the planning and evaluation of the training project. All these structures interact, coordinate and act collectively. Collectivity in the design and decision making, respect for the heterogeneity of the needs of pupils, gradual decentralisation and democratisation are the basic features of the new system that we want to build. The structure of the education system is not just a sum of individual functions, it should not be a set of bodies that act independently of each other. It is a living organism that, in order to develop and develop, requires cooperation between the parties to this effect. More specifically, the only representative institution of the school advisor is passing through the PESC and collecting the coordinators of educational work within this framework. We are leaving the individual and going to the interdisciplinary group, a necessary development that meets the current requirements of the functioning of the educational system and introduces a new culture of understanding and cooperation. The ERCs, which are succeeding in the ERCs, have an expanded role in relation to the pre-existing structure. Their subject matter is not limited to the field of special education, but extends to matters of advisory and professional guidance. The CRLs are the development of environmental development centres. Their mission is extended beyond environmental execution and goes through all areas of sustainable development, such as education and culture. However, those who continue to identify this project by removing structures, either deliberately destroy or have learned to read selectively. The development of existing structures and their strengthening with new objects gives new impetus and dynamics to the educational system and contributes to the enhancement of its effectiveness, while modernising it in order to respond better to modern social and technological developments. The reform effort would not be incomplete if it did not include a coherent and clear framework on the process of selecting and evaluating teachers. The main features of the new framework, set out in this draft law, are transparency and dignity through the introduction of uniform selection criteria, feedback... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Will you give me some time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u194	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u195	... teachers in the act of education by introducing the two consecutive terms in the same position, abolishing the gang-like personal evaluation by establishing the self-assessment of the school unit. Finally, I should like to refer to the introduction, in this bill, of three-year edu­cation in edu­cation, which is an important measure of social education for adult workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the reconstruction of the educational system is certainly not an easy case. The educational process is complex as both the parties involved in it and its requests are multiple. At the same time, it is a dynamic process which is identified, changed and must go hand in hand with social and technological developments. This bill is an important step in this effort, a step that will give new impetus and dynamics to the educational system. At the same time, it attempts to correct many of the pathogens and distortions created by the legislation of the previous governments. Finally, it sets the foundations for an open and democratic system that will liberate and promote creative forces, both on the part of teachers and on the part of pupils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Mitafidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Javarras - who is not in the Chamber at the moment - has systematically and persistently dealt with the ideological identity of the New Democracy, but, of course, with SYRIZA in particular. We are not, Mr. Javaras says, conservative or neoliberal. We're pretty liberal. And they are also heirs of enlightenment. However, as an irony of irony, ladies and gentlemen, this kind of'self-reporting', so that I too can use a language barbarism which is the latest of fashion. If you think only of what happens with your executives, with your Chief these days, who have literally pricked the unfamiliar memory of national wisdom, only that now is called "makedontality" and share certificates of patriotism throughout the country, wanting to hide their responsibilities for this misguided problem, which we are sure to solve. I would like to remind you of your liberal life and your state, some characteristic cases, because you accused us of being partisan. What I shall read to you, of course, is from your former partners, I mean the PASOK and, of course, the education. So, note 2007 and Mr. Stylianides then with his sorrow of moderateism said that the educational community is completely self-governed and self-determined. See, then, how you meant that. From fifty-eight training directors only five were not owned by the ruling party and from the hundred and fifty-eight chief offices only twenty-five were not blue. Would you like to see the most crystal? This is precisely what the representatives of the sector show, and I am referring here to the elected Members. Many of the hereditaries were at the same time judging and judging, playing theatre. The old trade unionists remember it here, we've got a lot in our area. Because you were burning up for legality, the Athens Administrative Court, in 2005, said in its decision 759 that those who intended to take administrative positions in education, obviously, had to opt out of the selection process, even if they were elected. They didn't, but that's not what they did. They put their alternate on. Do you know what the result was? All director selection tables were cancelled. And what was the ending? Not honorable, they went to court. You know they were running in court until recently? I say this because you cannot give us lessons of political morality. The other thing I want to say to you, because again I want to refer to your liberal past and your present, especially in education, is this. You know that this piece of legislation that we brought here - and other colleagues have said - reflects the best traditions of the educational sector. And to remind you of this, listen to it a little. When the dictatorship fell - and this is of great importance - the single ELMEO of Thessaloniki, Kilkis and Halkidikis at a public event organized by the late mayor of Michalis Papadopoulos raised the question of the existence of a hereditary administration status in primary and secondary education, as there is in tertiary education. Since then, this battle has been being fought. At the same time, therefore, the educational sector raised the question of its self-determination. Listen, Mr. Andriane, what happened. It's useful to learn about this. They have therefore undertaken to set up seminars and organize their self-reformation by teachers. Do you know how the Minister of Education then responded, George Rallys? He responded with a curriculum to the schools, which banned the participation of teachers in lectures and seminars. Despite these prohibitions, however, the industry has proceeded and concluded, colleagues and colleagues of the New Democracy, in excellent studies, introducing the term 'instrumental support centres'. So we claimed them, and indeed with scientific documentation, by calling on the best theorists of education at the events that were organized by teachers in those years. At first, however, they were as centres for teachers and then centres for supporting the educational work. If I wanted to comment on the legislation we are bringing here, I would say that there are two shortcomings, that they still do not work as training centres for teachers and as research centres. And remind me what a great teacher, John Dewey, said, "the school must be exploited as a gold mine of the teacher." What we are introducing with the legislation at the moment and which you do not like, of course, because you have a completely classic, hierarchical conception of society, is that you do not want to have the slightest disturbance. It seems absolutely challenging to you that teachers judge their superiors, to have an opinion on who runs their school. Why can this be the case with university teachers or only with the judges? What kind of perception and value obeys this? Each citizen has the right, and this is a historic conquest of humanity, regardless of its educational level, to decide who will govern him. In fact, when we brought the simple analogues, another example of the anti-democratic attitude that governs you is that you said 'no, we will decide how to shape this, with the bonus, to have strong governments'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u199	I shall conclude, Mr President. Yes, we're class-like, in the good sense of the term, because we don't have social Darbinism as our ideology, like you. We're not saying inequality is the driving force of history, as your Chief says. And I would like to tell you here that the most perplexed part of the industry, the substitutes, will have to be met until we proceed to regular appointments, the greatest care for us. They cannot get sick, have children - so I will say very schematically - on the basis of the Staff Code and the unacceptable discrimination that they have at their expense. And since we often dominate decisions here, Mr President-in-Office, Community directives, and I think you can use them - a decision that the Irish trade union won in the Irish public at the expense of the government of their country - is a historic decision, there are about twenty others, as I have measured - which says that there can be no discrimination for workers because of their different kind of work. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Mitafidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u200	Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, too, to wish my best success to all the children who have started the pan-Hellenic examinations today. Good power and justice to their labors and sacrifices! I would like to remind my previous colleague that he has been ruling for three years, the SYRIZANELs are ruling. And, in any case, if he does not want to embrace the proposals of the New Democracy, he should listen more carefully to the committee to the competent bodies, who, in their vast majority, are against the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is now going through a bill that touches the backs of education, a bill which not only seeks to follow international standards, but is applying methods that will further reduce the level of education. It is the third bill that this government will be voting on for the selection of training officials. That's another sample of her insolvency. Manipulation, suffocating control and hard party logic are your doctrine and this also serves this draft law. Cooking and "cooking" with a victim of education. That is why he has known the rejection - as I said before - of the overwhelming majority of the institutions of the educational community. You remove the school advisors, who are the truth that you have targeted since the beginning of your term of office, an institution that has been staffed by high-qualified teachers and a great teaching experience, who have been evaluated to understand this position. Perhaps he played his role and the fact that you were seen with the views they expressed in favour of excellence. And now, by avengeing, punishing them and creating in place a centralized structure, detached from the school unit, which cannot support guidance on the subject of knowledge and deal with everyday teaching issues. And that is not just what we are saying, it is the position of OLEME and the ILO as expressed in committee. With regard to the provisions for the selection of training staff, it shall be established by Article 25 of the Central Council with a President of the AACC for the selection of directors. However, the selection of training project coordinators shall be set up by a regional board chaired by a regional director. And you apply the originality of evaluation from the bottom up, where the outrageous to evaluate people who have not been evaluated will apply. I am referring to the regional training directors who will choose the medium-sized training managers and will be judged last. They are themselves the regional directors appointed as party selectors. They are your 'children', whose grace has come to the European Parliament, where we have accepted as a country that has been very critical of a lack of democracy and now will have a leading role in the choice of other executives, obviously to wash the party laundry. What authority and credibility will those officials have? What acceptance will be given to the strains that will result from such a blurred procedure? Bring the "cutter" of the two terms to Article 30, to round it up then, after the storm of the reactions and group all the completed terms into one. However, the provision remains to raise issues of constitutionality. In fact, Mr President-in-Office has wondered at the meeting of the committee - and he has repeated it today - whether there should be irreplaceable. Clearly and unequivocally we say no. This does not mean, however, that it should be replaced by less capable through diagram procedures and by 'cutters'. Article 37, concerning the evaluation system, covers only the training staff and excludes teachers, who will, however, assess them. And because the Minister has had difficulty in giving a convincing answer because, while they will be judges - and even anonymously - they will not be judged, he resorted to the well-known e.g. 152 and falsely said that this was due to the assessment of redundancies. Therefore, no reference is made to redundancies, as well as to Law 4250/2014 and a relevant circular of the Ministry of Administrative Reform specifically stated that the quota in the evaluation did not concern teachers. The government has put a punishing cloak in the evaluation to protect the guilds that frame it and avoid evaluation such as the devil the hammer, with the victim of training again, since the evaluation is a tool for improvement and motivation for better performance. Mostly, however, it is a requirement of society, which is judged on a daily basis and cannot be ignored. The head of the Ministry of Education also comes with the draft law under discussion to abolish or merge a number of structures, creating new ones, without presenting any assessment of their action to justify their abolition and, of course, without any scientific analysis documenting that the new bodies cover more adequately the educational needs. You remove the computer centres and new technologies, a structure that was responsible for the technical support of school units in IT and has known the overall acceptance of the educational world and its advisory role and for its educational actions and you reap all this effort of the people who sent them, throwing hundreds of comments on them during the consultation. You also abolish the CEDEFOPs, which were responsible for diagnosing the learning difficulties of children and supporting them through education and creating the CEDEFOPs, whose responsibilities are provided for the educational evaluation of educational difficulties, but not for the diagnosis and fatality of sending children and parents to the tails of hospitals and medical centres - if they address them - in order for them to be diagnosed without, of course, any pedagogical direction. I close it, ladies and gentlemen. Reading the bill, my thoughts were brought to the statement that often repeat - densely the SYRIZA executives that 'we have the government but do not have the power'. In this pattern, the Minister is moving with clear and enthusiastic desire the power and abundance of the state apparatus. After all, this is your central plan, which you unfold in every aspect of public life. However, your political curse is such that no such initiative can be a lifesaving for your political survival and very soon, as will be the case in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Christos Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u203	The people spoke, the Greeks spoke. Not a step back for our Macedonia! Golden Dawn welcomes this unscrupulous will of the Greek people against the nationally irresponsible and dangerous, mediocre and unscrupulous government policy as well as the hypocritical attitude of the New Democracy. The people demand, the Greek history requires it, the sacrifices of our ancestors demand it. Neither North nor Upper nor Gorna nor all that crap. Macedonia is one and it's only Greek! Unfortunately, what the ganglors did not achieve seventy years ago, they are trying to make it through their politicians, make it through treasonal agreements, with the consent of the partner of the "right-wing" Mr. Kammenos, who, in the scales of history, will win the title of the least but also the benefactor, the cynic benefactor. Because, he says, he will not vote if and when the agreement on the name in the House comes to be ratified, instead of the national government must be put to the vote so that this agreement does not come to Parliament. But also the hypocritical and patriotic New Democracy and the PASOK are being promoted by mass deception as opposing national treason, but in reality - we all know it - they are actually colluding with the left government. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has given an express command to his members not to stand against the complex name on the issue of Skopje. After all, this is the party, the New Democracy, which has imposed and identified the provision of our sacred national name with FYROM. M in FYROM, gentlemen of the New Democracy, means Macedonia. You first gave the name. Golden Dawn proudly raises the flag of disobedience and national resistance. There is neither FYROM nor Gorna nor 'Upper and New Macedonia' for us. However, if we were to agree on a name, that would only be the "Democracy of Northern Greek Macedonia" and only in Greek. We will not stop fighting for freedom on our northern border, on every northern Greek land, on the northern continent and on northern Macedonia. They live Greeks in Skopje, do you know that? There is a Greek minority in Skopje, abandoned by the Greek governments. Here are two questions to me about the Greek minority in Skopje. I asked a year ago about the Greek minority, on May 9, 2017, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, what action he and his Ministry will take, so that there is genuine recognition of the Greek ethnic minority in Skopje, which, as I said, is forgotten. On behalf of Mr Kotzia, of course, and also of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I returned with a second question on June 28, 2017, and asked whether the Greek Government intended to directly give Greek citizenship to these Greeks. I'm filing them. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the Minutes the two questions mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You here offer citizenship to every "Allah Akbar" invader and forget about the real Greeks, such as the Greeks of Skopje. We in the Golden Dawn since 1993 on the front page of the newspaper’s first handwritten that we do not compromise and do not retreat. We have then written 'No compromise on our Macedonia!'. That's what we're saying today. We don't deviate from the national line. We're not taking a step back. We stand determined and unscrupulously on the national line along with the Greek people. We Chrysayites express the commandment, the voice of the old man Moria in today's era: "Photos and axes to the worshipers"! And do not you feel that you of the nationalist democratic arch, as you call yourself 'democratic arch'. I hope you will once again suffer the consequences of your actions according to the will and with the feeling of the law of the Greek people. And because in today's bill we're talking about education, I want to ask you something. Or I'm probably not asking you, because you're in a situation of political aphasia. Whatever we say you don't understand. So the question - so that the world can hear it - which is the following. Tomorrow, will our children learn in the Geography class that there is a Macedonian country, even "North Macedonia" bordering Greece? Are you all right? And you think that with your slave attitude to your fathers, that is, the European Union and NATO, by giving them the name, recognizing them language, recognizing them history, will you applaud Skopje's saturation, their proliferationist expansionist mood? On the contrary. They will be covered behind this and will become a vehicle either of the United States or of Turkey in the immediate historical future to extend to Greece. The people spoke yesterday in twenty-four cities - Greece became a Macedonia - saying clearly: 'Don't dare - and you will pass over the bodies of the Greeks - to sell out the name Macedonia. We will not leave you!' That's what the Greek people said yesterday. As far as the bill under discussion is concerned, I am obliged to make a historical reference, to understand how the constitutional arc responsible for today is the constitutional arch from 1974 to the present day. Unfortunately, the worst Marxist sub-culture was dominated in education. It began in the years of the so-called Nationalist, Constantine Karamanlis, and unfortunately this domination of Marxist propaganda prevails until today. Even in the recent past, I would remind you of the fact that you in the New Democracy are not responsibilities, you who are ashamed to use the term right or right. In your day, Mrs. Reposi's infamous book came out and had the ultimate coverage of Mrs. Giannakou-Koutsikou. In your day they dominated nationalist teachers and gynaecified their ethnic dissolution work. Unlike all of you who are forged as constitutional lawmakers, while you are quite the opposite, we nationalists are the lawmakers and defenders of our Charter. Have you read what the Constitution says? Article 16. It says: education is a basic task of the state and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious consciousness and their modulation to free and responsible citizens. What do you do about it? Totally the opposite. Do you observe the Constitution? You not only drive the Greeks away, not only do the Greeks leave in the hostel with the memorandum that you supported together right-wing and left-wing, but you also want the young Greeks, the youth, to make them nationals and not free citizens. So you create generations without hope, without a future, without prospects, which are necessarily living for twelve years of slavery - because it is slavery - in school in spiritual slavery, in spiritual poverty, in a state of national degradation. Twelve years of compulsory education. And they're right to oppose children at school, at this school, Marxist prison, in this gullag you've created in return for left and right. We want this school to change. This school we want from the outset to do so again in the light of excellence and the absolute respect, as I said, of Article 16 of the Constitution. So you in this Chamber, talking about education, beyond all others, are hypocrites, great hypocrites and liars. Lie when you defend the public character of Greek education. The Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, may I remind the left, Mr. Tsipras, isn't he the one who sends his children to a private school? Is this how he expresses his love and left over the public nature of education? And not to blame, was it not Mr. Samaras who was sending his son to private school at college? Not to mention the case of the poor teacher who fell victim to Antonis Samara's resentment and radiowork. We nationalists of this woman who was made redundant by her work understand her very well. But what about the systemic JRC, Ms. Pappiga, the comrade, didn't she send her daughter to an American college? And not to complain about the hoods, because they are your secretary, the one with the Rolex, who was hand in hand the other day with the bourgeoisie in the mansion. I'm telling you, I'm not saying anything foreign. I quote facts. He wasn't our secretary with all the rot of this place. Where this rot gathers, Koutsubas takes the first dance. I shall also table a text for the time economy, Mr President, in the Minutes, which is the summary of our evenings and our programme for education. You say in return the means of mass deception that we don't have a programme. On the contrary, we have a programme and we have a programme that can re-examine education, become Greek, with the Golden Dawn, with the Greek nationalists. [[At this point, MP Christos Papapas presents for the Minutes the above programme, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have proposals for teachers, we have proposals for the new form of school, we have proposals to change all the detailed programs, as well as to change and write books from the beginning, so that children really learn about Greek history. It is unacceptable to poison our students in Greek schools with sermons about Greek-Turkish friendship, when the Turks learn in their own schools that the Aegean is a Turkish lake or the Skopje learn that there is "Solun", as they say Thessaloniki, and that this "Solone" will become the capital of tomorrow's "Macedonian" state. So we say in our programme and here too, Minister, by living, not in the vandals who exist in schools and higher education institutions. We do not see in any good mood the sacred totem of the Left called university asylum. We want to abolish university asylum. The university is not an area of political propaganda and cannot function like this. It doesn't work anywhere in the world like this. It's an area of research, learning and culture. Political activity at the university, therefore, has nothing to do with it, just as students have no work at all. Mr President, I should like to close and say this: 'The education of every good country bears all the good'. That's what the philosopher Socrates, the great Socrates, said. In other words, with a return to the new Greek, education, education, just like a fertile land, brings all the good things. That is what we nationalists believe. We, therefore, remain faithful and in line with the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, in the ideals that have supported our nation for thousands of years. In the homeland, in the faith, in the family. We are not dismissing these ideals from any price, whether they are called a government position - I say this for you left-wing - or this is called an invitation to the Bilderberg Club - I say this to you as a "boy". Your Chief of the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis, from today until the 10th of the month, will be "hand-hand" in Turin at this year's Bilderberg Club meeting with the slayer of Cyprus Henry Kissinger and with the whole gang of lamours of the new order. Congratulations to the 'right' patriot - within many and vast introductorys - New Democracy. I put forward a document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We at the Golden Dawn, as much as it hurts you, will continue to fight for national education. We believe that education is an obligation of the state and of the state alone, and indeed of a national state. The obligation of the national state is therefore the education of the new Greeks. That is why we are struggling for the organization of the youth of a national youth to the top. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Serres. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Mr. Andreas Risulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. I will say a few words, not much, about the main point of confrontation with the government over today's bill, the fragmentation and deletion of the state that SYRIZA is trying once again. I will not talk at all about the practices that have been applied in all previous years in the selection of managers in education. I will say more generally about the public sector, where services and organisations have been without organograms for decades. 80% with 90% of the staff in public administration are directors and managers with assignments. No evaluation ever took place. That was the party state that founded throughout the post-Civilisation, and this party state wants to maintain the next day. But be careful, they say that from now on they will do so otherwise we will end up with the 'old'. The 'old' thing they say should go look at it because they were the 'old' ones. They have created the conditions of anxieties in the public for all these years. I will say something about the reasons, beyond the change made by the Minister. I will repeat that. Educational staff - and this must be a post for education - cannot be dismantled from the educational process. This is exactly what the Diamantopoulou Law wanted to do, to cut off the training staff from managers and above the educational process. Already with the introduction of the law, she was sprung through her own people the fear that all teachers are well aware of. Teachers also know with what conditions they are operating today. The word of excellence again came in here. I have said so to the committee, and I will say it again, because it has to be understood from all sides. Excellence is the educational function and interaction between the teacher and the child. There's excellence in education. It's not a pyramid training. We have the educational process in class and around - around we have support structures and people who have some skills and with this specialisation go to help to achieve what they want. Well, excellence is in class. Let's get this over with. The New Democracy says that tested structures are being abolished. This is what PASOK says, and I say PASOK, because Mr Constantopoulos has spoken about the reforms of PASOK. Obviously the New Democracy does not want to see - and they do not see - what a reform means, which puts collectiveism at its core in the structures, in the functioning of the teaching club, in the collectiveity in the functioning of neighbouring schools. So Mr Constantopoulos spoke about the PASOK reforms, which were, indeed, very serious. In '85, right, counsellors, etc. came in. This reform of the PASOK has now changed a tested structure. This structure was very well tested by the previous system with inspectors. He changed it. What we have to understand is that in the present circumstances the '85 reform with the consultants after thirty-five years will have to change. School specialities have changed. The way in which teaching and needs are done, things still happening in school life and we once did not deal with them, today the school comes to deal with them. We're talking about the mental health of students. In '85 there was not only Greece but nowhere. We also accept a criticism from the JRC. I hear the JRC because I've read enough about what they've been saying all these years - I've said it to the committee - and it's like they've taken a photocopy from the time the Diamantopoulou was law and they're sitting and reading it. And today they say the same thing, without understanding whether changes are made, what efforts are being made, what opportunities are being given, whether there are opportunities in this context to make changes, etc. They talk like they talk back then, like they read a photocopy. I'll repeat it. In 2011 they said that fifteen thousand redundancies are coming in education and a hundred fifty thousand redundancies all over the state. This was not because SYRIZA came to the government and the whole logic changed in how we dealt with the worker. We are fighting together with the workers to reconvene conquests that have been lost or to win new things by the workers. They said that the only system is socialism, with which everything will be done. What they say to workers: 'Come and fight so that we do not lose our conquests or restore those that have been lost' will now be done in this system or in another. I'm going to speak out in writing, 'cause I don't want to take too much time. Two-year-old education and two-year-old pre-school education. With regard to the two-year pre-school education that they always say is in place, the Municipality of Patras is outside the two-year pre-school education. It explains that they didn't have any money and there were no rooms to implement it. A few days ago, when he cleared out a whole school building with five, six, seven rooms that the two-year-old pre-school treatment could go in there, he had priority to put on some other services. He asked us how many years we wanted to make the changes. Good how many years does the Mayor of Patras, the chosen KKE, want to make changes to the Municipality of Patras? The Greek people themselves how many years do they want to be able to make changes? A year? In two years will the JRC end all this? I'm asking to know how change takes place. I want to finish with something that has nothing to do with the bill, but it is about a debate that needs to be held from now on for teachers and it is serious. All workers in the country - either in the public or in the private sector - have seen their wages shrink over the years. Educational time was the worst paid in public administration. Neither a special salary has a bonus nor has a special bonus. Any change and reform, especially by talking about the next day, should be taken seriously and should be having a debate on how the core of excellence called on the teacher to implement in the classroom should be strengthened. This is a very serious matter. There can be no reform, and nothing can be changed even to the democratic side, unless we look over time - I do not know how long this time will be - the reward of teachers. This is a very serious matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All the countries that have successfully reformed have given teachers free postgraduate, paid training and many other things that our teachers have never seen in their dreams in this country and are fighting it, as they are fighting it. They've been trained with thousands of graduates, doctors, training everything. They've done it all on their own. The time has come for the whole debate on the next day to see how the teacher will now be able to convene at this level with what is in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. The State Secretary, Ms. Merope Jufi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, begin with my self-evident wishes for the children who have entered the battle of the pan-Hellenic examinations for temperality, strength and resistance to them and to their parents and to the teachers who will complete the process. The Ministry is here to ensure that they are properly conducted. A lot of things have been said today. I would like to say that this bill is a continuation and complement to previous reform laws in the field of education, which is why it is annoying as all the previous ones. In all we have had acute reactions with often apparent verbal violence. Because you need to know that words are nails too, as Manolis Anagnostakis says. Blood is coming out. Violence many times - and we have heard it today - becomes personalized, is turned into an attempt to reap the opponents rather than the arguments they make. Let me tell you, from my short-lived experience in three and a half years as a member of the Committee on Morphic Affairs that it is not true. All the main legislation of the Ministry of Education has been given exhaustive dialogue and controversy, and indeed there are colleagues in the Chamber in other parties, whose interventions and amendments, despite their disagreements with the government's bills, were accepted by this Minister in an effort to bring about convergence, wider dialogue and the maximum possible consensus. I filed it yesterday and was not questioned by anyone. They discuss the fact that not all the articles have entered the consultation in time. But what articles are we talking about? In the articles on the reorganization of the Institute of Education Policy, which we all regard as a useful institution that we need in order to move forward with training? In these articles dealing with problems to which they themselves have asked for satisfaction, for example, the regulation of the absences of athletes, the important issue of exempting children with health problems in higher education, which we now enable them not to need for each individual disease, but to do so by means of a joint ministerial decision? For these articles that were of a urgency, are these and many others that required a immediate positive solution before the start of the new academic year? The other majority of them, namely, the ones I would like to mention, concerning special education and training, have been consulted for a long time. I have to tell you here that four thousand five hundred comments have been made, and even here the Federation of Parents with Disabilities participated, and we took them very seriously. There was productive consultation with parents, with school visits, with open interventions at development conferences, as well as with numerous organisations and federations. For example, I mention meetings with PESEA, with OSCEPE, but as I have tabled before, open public dialogue events and with RESEMA, taking advantage of the long-term cooperation that existed. So we're not trying to surprise anyone. In view of the fact that the government is trying to implement an anti-educational policy in this multicultural area with cutbacks in expenditure, reduction of structures, recuperation of the roles of the CESH, loading the diagnosis on the backs of the families, delaying them to force them to put their hand in the pocket or to abolish parallel support, it is an untrue and terrorist account. I have today to respond with elements of the agony of the people of the area, who serve him in faith and in difficult conditions and who rightly do so when there are changes, are anxious and stressful. Of course, in the same way, and much more so, I must respond to these families, which are suffering for many years in a climate of insecurity and fear, since when there is a social crisis, as the entire Greek society has experienced in these difficult years, this sector is much more affected because it has greater vulnerability. The few structures of the social state were abolished, because in the period of prosperity those who ruled this place did not see to it that they were able to do anything in this direction and allow private initiative to be affected by these two main areas of education and health, as well as the structures of social protection. So the problems of what we do in the area of special education are not disconnected from the general problems of health, of the disability family, which require structures - not to say prenatal - of the birth of children with much more possibilities of early diagnosis and, of course, intervention and, of course, far from the antiquated model that fuels segregation, marginalisation, stigma, hyposecution, which already existed in this direction. Let me give you an indicative example. There are still no official records of children with disabilities in our country, so that we know and plan how much they are in education structures and what structures we really need. We tried to give written samples in this direction? I think it's undeniable. I've filed it in the past few days. In the context of budgetary suffocation, a very great effort has been made to establish new structures. Thirty-six special education and training establishments, five hundred seventy-seven departments of integration in primary and secondary schools, thirty-eight in-service schools under a different context, which are at present the special vocational schools and high school. So it all worked out in time and worked out the current school year. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. We asked why we did not cover all the requests for parallel support. We really didn't make it. We have, however, strengthened this possibility - almost doubled it - from previous years, because, as I have had the opportunity to say, these requests are multiplying, because we have a very large increase in children with autistic spectrum disturbances. But teachers - as I said twice, but half of the demands - have been at the beginning of the school year, and that is why there is no doubt about it. More recruitments have also been made during this period than ever in the special educational and special assistant staff. From six thousand recruitments in 2014-2015 we reached ten thousand recruitments in 2017-2018, while for the first time psychologists and social workers went to general schools, vocational education schools and the mission of school nurses was implemented in general. As far as the Commission is concerned, I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission has already taken a number of Of course we have also tried in other schools with problems, such as intercultural schools, schools with Roma students, to send social workers, psychologists to the capacity measures and the problems of the tight fiscal policy that we have to implement. The bill now. I think it is quite wrong to approach the ERCF to close the role of CEDEFOPs. It expands this role, ensures it and, at the same time, with the structures of the school networks and the multidisciplinary evaluation and support committees, manages to establish interconnectivity with the class. In addition to the number we set up nine additional KESHs, particularly where there were very great needs of the school population, i.e. in the large urban centres. I want to tell you some things about some of the issues that entered the dialogue, such as that here collapse structures and if we need pediatricians and why the pediatricians left the ERCU. You will allow me here to present the view of the Hellenic Paediatric Society, which is a few words: the few serving pediatricians - pediatricians have never been in these centres, one that the JRC says and repeats, and it is wrong - they are healing doctors and therefore do not enter these structures. The presence of a child psychiatrist in the CEDEFOPs of these few cases was of a restrictive nature and, when there was a problem, these children were referred to the respective public structures. Therefore, such solutions cannot provide an answer. Considers that the multidisciplinary evaluation and support committees responsible for psychologists can play this key role and what he stresses is the interconnection of mental health services with the Ministry of Education services. I'm filing it to finish this account. [[At this point, the State Secretary, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There is also the account that parents are excluded from direct access to ERCs. It's Article 11.3.d. There isn't. I want parents to know that they have the possibility of directly addressing these structures as before. Also, KKE's colleague spoke of a serious problem at St. Athanasios School in Thessaloniki. I want to say here that I had the opportunity to go there, to visit this school. He's in a new building. There will be a special kindergarten in these structures. It's well-trained. Of course, the problems of the families are multiple, and that is why we have tried in this government with previous bills to pay the parents of these children to be recruited in social structures, but also to give them the opportunity for more permission so that their children can take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u208	Madam Minister, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u209	Yes, I'm ending up, Mr. President. Obviously I do not want to describe an ideal situation, and all the people in this world know that much better. Many are open issues, lack of buildings, technological equipment, issues with curriculum programmes, issues with early intervention, issues with rehabilitation that require a holistic approach from all the co-responsible ministries in cooperation with the disabled movement, institutions, parents and families. And I would like to call on everyone here in these critical bets to find the widest possible consensual climate, not confrontation, and on these bets we must try to give our answers as far as possible, that is, to go beyond the quantitative valuation that cannot be called into question and is positive, to a qualitative assessment of the reform that we are moving on and that will require a lot of effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too. Mrs Chrysula Katsavria-Siopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with my wishes for the students and students who are currently in great preparation for the pan-Hellenic examinations and wish them the results they expect. After months of hard work in the Ministry of Education, public consultation, discussions in the Committee on Educational Affairs and the hearing of bodies, we are faced with the adoption of a draft law, which, on the one hand, aims to put the daring legal framework into order and, on the other, gives this new impetus that education needs and has been waiting for for many years. In the draft resolution, the government finally takes an important step forward with innovative changes towards implementing its commitments to a public, democratic, cooperative school, redesigning the education structures that will be called upon to resolve the vulnerabilities of the past and in every way strengthen any positive work carried out within the school. The establishment of collective planning and evaluation of the school unit's work by the teachers themselves and the cooperation of all those involved in the educational work of bodies and institutions based on the role and responsibility each bears, strengthen the educational autonomy of the school unit and the social role of the school and allow us to begin thinking about a new era in education. The existing system had to be modified, evolved and drawn up with current scientific developments. The serious social changes that have taken place in our country over the past decade with the economic crisis, the increase in single parent families and their significant impact on family and school require direct and active intervention by the state and, above all, the Ministry of Education. The establishment of the EGTCs of the new regional support structures promotes collectiveity in programming and actions and aims to give this new impetus to education with scientists and specialists of all specialities. The responsibility for supporting the school community passes through an interdisciplinary team which will approach the educational process as a whole. The work of all executives is recognised, which will be exploited with increased tasks and specialised roles. The new training coordinators will focus on three main objectives, the training of teachers on modern teaching methods, the support of the planning and imprinting process of the training project and the teaching support of teachers. Very important, too, is the establishment of ERCs that broaden ERCs, which are supported by staff of all specialists, teachers, psychologists, social workers, who will be trained and given more general support from schools with credibility, validity and maintaining the distinct roles of existing structures. The highly important services offered by CEDEFOP are a major necessity in today's reality, in early education diagnosis, evaluation, rehabilitation and support for disabled pupils, skills and disability. Their contribution to the psychiatric support of the school community and the families of pupils and pupils, to dealing with the issues of violence and social inequalities, as well as the disastrous leakage, will be evaluated and supported. The strengthening of the institution of the JEPs, advisory and professional guidance on new structures and the exploitation of experienced and skilled executives who support students and learners for self-investigation and are dynamically preparing their smooth transition to adult life and work is an added value for the provision of public and free professional guidance services. An important section of the bill is the criteria and procedure for evaluating and selecting regional directors and training directors, who will be invited to play the very important role of the proper and effective functioning of public schools, structures and directions of education. We need a system in line with the principles of equality and dignity, but also the free access and career of every competent citizen of that country to public posts and a transparent system in all things. In this direction is the selection of regional training directors with the selection system and not as postmasters who were up to now. It is an evaluation of shaping, which we aspire to lead to self-improvement of our teachers, but also to an improvement of the work of the executives. Greek education has sufficient teachers and can be proud of its executives. With this bill, the state dares to overcome the syndicate logic and obsessions of the past and any practical problems and difficulties arise, it is certain that they will be resolved. We believe in public school and our teachers, we support their opening in society with vision, design and clear planning. We're here for the hard stuff. We have also proved that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, have changes been made?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u214	Some changes are taking place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u215	How are the changes? Explain to me. You're old and experienced. Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u216	Since you too are old, you will know that many times there is an emergency need for a colleague and there is a need for a change. Mrs Katsavria departs for a trip and was required at 5 p.m. to be at a certain point. It was reasonable for the Bureau to accept its request.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u217	First you have to ask the rest of us who are in line.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Ignace, you weren't in the Chamber. I looked to see if you were, to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u219	I was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no. When the change took place, you weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u221	The rest of the list is never changed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u222	You're right. But I'm telling you, I didn't see you in the Chamber in order to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, we are planning our obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u224	Okay, well, the interventions are five minutes. It's not that big a difference. To have an understanding. Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Step forward, I will not get tired of pointing out...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u226	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Ignace, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u228	I'm not addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u229	Yeah, but I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u230	I am addressing the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u231	I think the matter is over and we can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u232	You're right. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u233	From this step, then, I will not get tired of pointing out that our differences with the Civilian Opposition Party are not just politicians. They are deeply social and ultimately cultural. These differences are particularly embodied in the field of education. For us education is the social tool, which its exploitation contributes to the formation of personalities by realising their responsibility for the economic, political and social become. Our Government perceives education as the most social function with obvious traits of democracy and the spirit of liberty. Through the educational process we aim to give the individual real education, which means to acquire all those traits that contribute to the humanisation of his existence. On the contrary, your policy committed to the uprising of the market, attempts to transform the individual and the educational area into a trading unit, customers during Mr. Mitsotakis' welcoming speech. Our education legislation is based on democracy, common sense and social justice. It is a piece of legislation which has been fought by the Opposition with lame arguments, which has caused anger and anger. I remind you of your punctual theorem of excellence. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for you, we are not the same for society, and this diversity is reflected in the bill under discussion. Currently, the Ministry of Education redesigns its education and administration structures towards adapting it to new needs created by social change, as well as correcting distortions and failures introduced by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK during the memorandum years. I am referring, for example, to a punitive evaluation of the teachers you set up, which was in no way intended to improve education, but instead to break down the mind of the teacher. In addition, the self-assessment of educational units is introduced as a feedback process, which assesses the educational work, identifys and analyses problems and needs of the school, creates incentives to improve education function. This new process has nothing to do with the disastrous external evaluation of the past in the field of education. This draft law also introduces new institutions such as regional educational planning, educational and advisory support centres and sustainability training centres. These new structures strengthen regional educational planning, advisory and, more generally, multi-formal support for educational work. These institutions replace, among other things, the position of the school advisor, a position in which important teachers have been prosecuted, but a position which has long been closed down in its operating cycle. The new institutions which are introduced also replace fragmented centres, regional training centres, special training centres, advisory and school guidance centres. In this way by fragmented and single-faced support institutions that have often operated with a lack of coordination and incomplete means, we go to organised, collaborative and interdisciplinary support structures. I close my position with another important regulation brought by the Ministry, which concerns the crucial role the school teachers' association assumes, a constant and time-consuming demand from the educational community. The association now acquires substantial responsibilities and assumes responsibility for planning and evaluating the school's educational work. This strengthens the collective decision-making procedures of the school by the relevant teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, the links on the left with education and, in general, with education are particularly strong and unresolved. They're coming from a long time ago and they're destined to go far away. Left emblematics that forged these ties, both with their passion and wisdom, irrigated our country's educational meadow. I won't mention them. I would ask you to withdraw them in your memory so that you can certify the truth. Our Left, ladies and gentlemen, does not treat education as a merchandise and as a arena for excellence. Our Left respects both the students and the teachers and the people who practice her administration. What is contained in this draft law is a condensation of this experience, but they also implement requests from the educational movement, broaden democratisation, strengthen the school unit in question and define a modern and fair framework of tasks for the responsible officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u234	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u235	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we keep putting order in this place without revolts, without ideas. We continue to put an end to the destruction and social automation you have caused, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK. We continue to reverse the country's social desertification and move towards social reconstruction. We continue to arouse our country from all kinds of economic and social mines that you have been planting in our country for decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Colleague, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u237	One word, let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Colleague, we've reached eight minutes. There are twenty more colleagues left. We're not gonna end this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Davakis made the unrepeated mystery of baptism repetitive. Liberal, the space "but this is how it was baptized". Because it needs to be rebaptized. She's probably telling the bride so the mother-in-law can hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u240	So much need for that comment in eight minutes? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u241	The mother-in-law was the comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u242	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, twenty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Perea, Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Aygeakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I promise I will not speak less than eight minutes. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on primary and secondary education under the urgency procedure. In a few hours' debate, we are limiting an important issue concerning the education of our own children. The government once again deceives democratic institutions, mobilizes Parliament through parliamentary procedures, absolves democratic dialogue and consultation and offends education itself. There is absolutely no reason for the urgency procedure, ladies and gentlemen. Topics such as education should be legislated through exhaustive, honest dialogue, dialogue in Parliament, dialogue with education bodies, with teachers with stakeholders and, of course, dialogue with society itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it is challenging to lead the Ministry of Education. It brings absolutely undoubtedly a mammoth bill of five hundred pages and a hundred thirteen articles under the urgency procedure. The bill came up in consultation with fifty - one articles and now in plenary with hundred - thirteen articles. On its short and urgent route from the closure of the consultation to the committee, it has risen into sixty two more articles. Ladies and gentlemen, are you doing this, why are you afraid of a substantial debate, dialogue? You're doing this, why are you afraid of the people's opinion? Do you do this to hide that you are trying to party again - in a provocative way - the administration of the educational system? You do all this night so you don't realize what you're trying to do? Do you put your party and party interest above all, above all, in democratic institutions, above Parliament, above schools and above education? Unfortunately, you also choose in the neural area of education to show your contempt for institutions but especially for citizens and parents. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, in this effort to please the institutions and to despise the citizens, we are against you. Not only are we voting against your bill but we are firmly and clearly committed that once the New Democracy takes over the country's governance - that is, very soon - we will abolish what we are discussing today. Minister, your bill has as its central objective the party decommissioning of the education administration and the demolition of the officials already serving in it regardless of their qualifications, value and, of course, their offer. It abolishes the evaluation of teachers. It sets unconstitutional terms for the selection of management officials such as, for example, limitation of two terms, evaluation of training executives with anonymous questionnaires, decisive in the unstructured interview by your party-controlled bodies. It sets unreasonable procedures such as, for example, regional training directors, who were placed on party criteria by your government in 2015 and will participate in the choices of medium-sized training managers. In other words, without precedent for their own crisis, they will judge the middle-level training officials. It abolishes useful and tested time structures such as school advisors and replaces them with new hydrocephalic structures. It provides for the creation of new costs, which are not even assessed by the General Accounting Office of the State. It contains clear photographic provisions such as, for example, those concerning the Institute for Educational Policy. Converts special treatment to a field of irresponsible experimentation, giving medical time to the management of the subjects of the school population with special learning difficulties. It also does not address the issues of long-term waiting and agony of pupils and parents, especially when transitioning pupils from primary school to high school. Minister, it is our responsibility to raise these issues and to denounce you of what your Government is doing today in education and, of course, in our schools. The New Democracy, our prolongation, places particular emphasis on education reform. We insist on our standing positions and aim to upgrade education. For us investing in education is not just a political priority, but a survival treaty of the nation. It is a personal political commitment of our President, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to select senior and senior officials in education, to establish an objective procedure, in which of course the AACC will be involved. We insist on the role of directors and the objective selection of regional directors and school advisors. It is very important at the top of the administration of education schools that we have people who are rated, have knowledge, quality and who are hurt but mostly love their subject matter. As far as the evaluation of all structures of education and education is concerned, we want schools to be evaluated. We want an evaluation which works as a mechanism for improving and training for those who do not perform well, but also a reward mechanism for the excellent who today keep public education and public school standing. We want to strengthen existing structures and school autonomy by taking many decisions from schools themselves. We want free autonomous schools, with more creativity, with more responsibility and accountability to the managers, with a greater role in the parents' associations. Our school - and this is what I am closing down - must become a natural hive, ladies and gentlemen, a production of knowledge, joy and creativity. For all these reasons, we are voting against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Eve Christophilopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a few general comments before entering into individual provisions of the bill. I heard the Minister, Mr Gabroglou, start his speech this morning and say the following. In this context, the Minister spoke about twenty-two minutes. Not that he talked a lot, but he talked twenty-two minutes. In these twenty-two minutes he didn't deal with his bill at all. He was involved in the Opposition and made us from a downtown teaching here. I did not hear a word about his bill, a presumption, a point of argument. I have heard generalities and "wood" in opposition. They must therefore be answered. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] He started fighting us and told us that the bill was published on October 24, 2017, Minister, you are here. And I ask, what is Parliament's disdain at the moment we are living? What is Parliament's final deception? What did the Minister tell us? He had to fight himself. So he posted it and made it public in October. What prevented him from bringing it in December, January, February, March - mercy - to make a normal parliamentary procedure if he wanted to make a normal parliamentary procedure. So the Minister won't tell us that. These are prophecies in sins. Secondly, it says that there has been sufficient dialogue until then. I have heard other Ministers of SYRIZA and ANEL, particularly SYRIZA, say that there has been dialogue and that they have seen so many bodies. And Mr. Skourletis has said it, but other ministers have said it. The fact that the Minister sees private bodies - and I would say well - in his ministry is a dialogue, Minister? No, it's not, because dialogue is an institution. But, of course, no one is surprised because the dialogue, ladies and gentlemen of the so-called Left, is not in your culture. And I'll prove that. Because when you were at 3%, where you are going to be driving and not too late, I would like to remind the House that - but never - you had never come to the National Education Council. You've never been here once. You have never come to tell your opinion the different one, to say your reaction. You have never come to the National Education Council, which is an institution that we have forged. Secondly, I would like to say that true culture of cooperation means that even under extreme polarization, a party can become deeply democratic to recognise the national importance of education and participate in dialogue. I will mention an example from 2008, where there has been extremist polarism between the New Democracy and the PASOK. The New Democracy was then in the government. It is the Babiniotis initiative and all parties are invited. And the PASOK is coming to the end. You're the one who came here to denounce and leave. Also never in the bill on technical education that was our initiative and which all parties came, the Coalition never came. Never. And you're telling us about dialogue? Of course, now that you have come to power, your Minister told us that he had a dialogue because he saw the agencies and why he gave five to ten interviews. Who are you kidding? However, not the Greek people. Mr. Gabroglou told us something else. He told us to get out of society. You guys go out to society. We go to society and fill rooms and go wherever we want. You guys go out to society. For Mr. Tsipras to go somewhere, he should be accompanied by twenty degrees of MAT. Twenty squadrons escort the Prime Minister to go somewhere. Don't tell us Mr. Gabroglou to go out to society. Get him out first and go to the teachers and get in school. Because today, from the Step of the House, Mr. Gavroglou addressed a close audience like many of your Members. I'll remember what you're really doing. I have also heard Mr Constantine, from SYRIZA, saying: 'We will stitch it up.' [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I, too, ask for your tolerance not for eight minutes but for one or two more minutes. What are you going to do with seams - seams? You're going to dismantle the school advisors. You are taking them out today, the institution that we introduced and who succeeded the overseer of the schools. We may not remember here in the Chamber, because we are not old enough, but if you talk to a retired teacher, a retired teacher, he will tell you a lot about this inspector and not only the days of the right-wing government, EPE, but also the days of the long junta. We have abolished this institution and put in a purely pedagogical institution, the institution of the school advisor that you are now abolishing. Did he want an improvement? Sure. You should've called the parties. Because Mr Gabroglou dared to tell us, after Mrs Gennimata's speech, that our MPs and our officials have seen him in private, I would ask him and I would urge him not to enter this dialogue, because not only I but many of us have to tell many stories. The question is this, ladies and gentlemen: can we have a dialogue on how to improve the institution of the school advisor? Oh, no. We are, however, entering slash on whether to give them a mandate or not, whether or not to close them the eye or to do something to them, and if so, to resent them in the new institution, the MAGP, bureaucracy. We're going to a concentration in the districts away from the schools, away from the parents, away from the educational role. Finally, I will say a word about the evaluation. It is true that in our service training councils for the evaluation of the educational project - Mrs Gennamas mentioned - you were coming in and dissolving them. Watch out. There was no political person there, not even a general or special secretary. You came in and you broke that up. This is your democracy. But education, ladies and gentlemen, is not built on what the Secretary-General then did by force in parades. It is not possible for Mr Baxvanakis today to talk to us about dialogue and consensus. We know what he did in parades. Education is built as a step. If you would like, then, you should call on the parties so that we can also take a position on the assessment that you have on fire at the outside, and that is why you are taking this. So what you have to do is think twice and three times. Do you want to have a dialogue culture? If you do want, open your ears and listen. If not, we will continue to hear your ministers here speak for twenty-two minutes against the opposition, without a word about the bill we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u246	SYRIZA MP, Mr. Hussein Zabeck, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the overall and substantial upgrading of education undertaken by our Government, the time has come for reconstruction and support structures in education. I am using the condition of reconstruction very consciously, since we need to remember what was mediated before our own bills. In circumstances of severe economic crisis and austerity, education was underestimated and was one of the first areas - together with health - that went to the forefront of the anti-grass policies of the previous governments. Until then, evaluation issues fantasized as punishment, while education support structures were dealt with fragmentally and individually. To get to the bottom of the bill, we now see that the terrible and terrible abolition of the school counsellor, as opposition claims, is replaced by the coordinators of educational work. Of course, we accept that the institution of the school advisor has offered much to the educational system after the abolition of training inspectors, but it has never been strengthened by previous governments who are now so passionately defending him. Contrary to the coordinators of educational work, a new culture is formed, which aims to provide a public, democratic and cooperative school with a stronger social role. This is why his job objectives change, after having been called upon to achieve the training of teachers in modern teaching methods, to support the process of planning and evaluation of the educational work and the teaching support of the teacher. It will also be the educational and advisory support centres that we are accused of after we have abolished the CEDEFOPs. However, no one openly talks about the role of ERICs, which has no change in the evaluation of the educational needs of students. On the contrary, KESS staffed also with more scientists to avoid being exhausted in the context of the opinion, but they will define the type of educational need, propose the appropriate educational framework for each student, plan and support the teacher in the student's personalized training program, and finally support the teacher and other school class management issues. To date a child had to wait up to two years to be evaluated by the CEDEFOP. From now on, with the spectacular increase in positions in the ERCs, the procedures for issuing the opinions are expected to be speeded up, but also to support teachers. The bright exception was the EDPS of Xanthi, which had little waiting. But by increasing positions and converting them to JTIs, it is expected to bring even better results to our prefecture. It is also worth mentioning the school planning and feedback assessment of the school unit's work by the teachers' associations themselves. This process has nothing in common with the evaluation of the teachers of the New Democracy, in which teachers strongly resisted the connection with redundancies in the first few years of the memorandum. Under this provision, the Association of Teachers in collaboration with school community bodies sets out the educational objectives, assesses whether or not they have been achieved, and on this basis designs the training and support of the school unit where needed. All this, of course, also applies to minority education. In particular, three educational posts of the minority primary and secondary programmes are provided for in the MAGPs. The scientific responsibility of the minority programme at both levels is entrusted exclusively to the coordinators of an educational project in a minority programme for the minority schools in Thrace. Two positions, as a priority, are also provided for in the staffing of the ERCs by members of the minority for the Xanthi and Rhodope Prefectures. Therefore, all the above beneficial provisions demonstrate the important role to be played by training coordinators in improving minority education. This is why teachers will be selected with a long time experience in it. All of this shows that positive steps have been taken in minority education, but there is still much to be done, of course, as is the change in the books of the Greek-language and Turkish-language programme and the constant request of the teachers of the minority programme for training. This bill shows that we are going to a period of normalisation and reconstruction of education for the better and eventually in a period of normalisation and reconstruction of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Wait a minute. Especially after the clear exit from the situation of the committee and the memoranda before us, we must look not only on economic development but on the other areas of the state that have been most affected by the crisis as in education. This bill takes the first step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u248	Thank you. We continue with the Member of the Democratic Association, Mr. Loverdos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the education sector is an area that we have conquered not to be the centre of political controversy, not to be the basis for pursuing political objectives. And that was almost universally accepted as a political system after too many of the burdens created by party competitions in education, in the phase of what I say 'later civilisation', i.e. after 2000. I am not surprised that the only government that came out of this conquest is the SYRIZA - ANEL government. You are a unique exception here too, as you are really an exception to foreign policy issues that are so topical these days. Firstly, as far as Greek-Turkish is concerned, you have managed to become a government - not all of you, but some of you, clearly - a part of Turkey's election game, to play according to the wishes of the parties and candidates in Turkey's election period. Unwittingly, but you're doing it. Secondly, as far as the issues of Fyrom are concerned, you have been trying the most awkward way since the beginning of December 2017 to create problems in the opposition to get some votes you, so at the moment no one knows in Greece on Monday and Tuesday if what was listening on Sunday by the rulers is serious. So because the clavicle of government bioavailability is emptied at an unrelenting rate and because the range of defeat has covered your political horizon, you have once again decided on the issues of education - to legislate first and foremost and secondaryly on micro-political criteria to satisfy your narrow electoral audience. You look to the left in this Chamber, as I look at the Chamber, that is, you see the man who slammed into the Ministry of Education by playing an exclusively party, supposedly a trade union role. You look right, and you see the Minister who snuck in to dismantle parades in his prefecture. And now you've all carved together since 2015 and then with an exception, do in the field of education what is of benefit to your party and no one else and do it from 2015 until today and urgent. The cathode is the way you often choose, but you must understand - now of course it is too late - that the educational cathode leads to a cathode to the rest of society. It may be visible after some years, but it is very serious and difficult to heal. Amateurism, idealism, you became what Seferis had said so well: "In this place we are all so tragicly self-taught." In fact, do you really have to show virtues in what we call ignorant and self-taught that teaches the neck to another person, why, with your new blow, what are you doing? Mrs Christophilopoulos has said so very well, and our rapporteurs, Mr Constantopoulos, have said so in committee and here in plenary, the President of the Change Movement said so. You have achieved a key hit in a remarkable structure of the Greek education system. I support the view that the Greek education system is suffering and there are responsibilities here. I also referred to the principle of my speech. However, some islands of educational competence and some other islands of real success in the field of education policy were conquered. You're reaping everything that stood out above average. You are reaping everything that has been done over these years to be founded with efforts and to have success in its action. I have spoken at times with too many teachers, typical cases from Evia, from Boeotia, from Athens, from Macedonia, to primary and secondary education. It is many times, ladies and gentlemen, that these people have referred to the role of school advisors as a good thing, as something that helps. And because you don't like their qualifications and because you don't like their presence, you do them and yes, you do them, but you haven't even bothered what seems to be the end of the conversation.... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, my five-minute is the product of the urgent procedure. My five minutes - and you are right to remind me of my time - are not the product of the Rules of Procedure of the House. It is a product of those who govern the place that gives me the right to speak five minutes. You too, Mr President, remind me of this and do very well. Unfortunately, however, there are too many issues. Have you looked at what the Scientific Studies Directorate says? It says a lot on fourteen pages. He says too much. I don't have time to stand. I am going to stand on one, Article 30(3), as it calls the same 'unequal treatment event, by introducing an exclusion criterion'. Have you thought of that? The Scientific Studies Directorate says that Article 30(3) - as it says it - is introduced 'an expression of unequal treatment by introducing a criterion of exclusion'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u250	Change that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u251	Oh, no. It hasn't changed! Changed by what? It has changed as far as possible to count on one candidate's time, to understand the new positions they have created, the two terms on one. And that remains a criterion of exclusion, ladies and gentlemen, which you are probably reading by keeping the paper upside down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u252	Exclusion?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u253	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u254	Unconstitutionalism exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u255	The unconstitutionality remains unconstitutional, for anyone who knows Greek. For whoever doesn't know, it's his thing. I don't have any more time. I would like to close with an issue relating to Article 85 of the Governing Council of the 'Sivitary Office'. It is typical, ladies and gentlemen, how people are legislating here, which urgently bring us their legislation in this House, so that we cannot say their weaknesses, where we find them. In Article 85, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at the Governing Council of the "Sivitary", you made the seven members of the administration nine. Because you don't like the trade unions in the area, you want to appoint a man from outside, saying there are three trade unions. You choose one, whoever you like most, to appoint, instead of what Mr Mavrotas said, that is, to choose the representative of their choice. And finally, in this article you appoint a member of the Board of Directors of the "Sivatidis". Anyone who understands from an administration understands what the Director-General means - an executive body - is also a member of the Board of Directors, that is, the decision-making body relating to all the issues of the "Sivatidis". This betrays not only unreliable administrativeism, this is your privilege, but it betrays the way you think, namely how the people of your choice, the director-general who the Minister appoints, will also be a member of the Board of Directors and will be compensated for by a trade unionist of our choice. These things characterize you. These are, for their part, your educational catastrophe and it is really against you that you are giving us and the very serious argument that we do not have the right to criticise you and for more than a hundred articles to give us five minutes in a brief plenary procedure. You must be ashamed of what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u256	Mr Adonis Georgiadis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Please keep the time. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure say five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u257	I will keep the time, Mr President. Don't worry. Minister, unfortunately the Minister, Mr. Gabroglou, is missing, so I ask you the question. I would like you to explain clearly why I really do not understand why this bill has come under the urgent procedure. I would really like you to show your respect in Parliament and explain to us why and what this bill has made you use, Mr Philly, the urgent procedure. What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u258	I'm the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u259	You support him. Don't tell me if you're a minister. You were. We have a Parliament. He's got a rule. You're bringing a bill in an urgent procedure. It's been destroyed by us to tell you, but it's never in such a secret way. A bill that has been in public consultation for months, suddenly comes on Friday night, with twice as many articles and one of the government does not have the sensitivity to Parliament to turn and explain why it has to come in this urgent procedure. Not a single excuse! So remember these, Mr. Friend in the future. Remember all that you're doing. Do not see you in the future in Parliament shouting about parliamentary junkers and such things as in the past. Remember them! I take note of everything you've done on the block.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u260	You won't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u261	Well, you'll be ruled forever, I know! We understand you. Remember your hypocrisy, however, and what you said to this Parliament and you personally about such procedures. And it comes today in a bill where Minister Gavroglou, in his tranquility and kindness, has not said an excuse why he is trespassing the Rules of Procedure of the House in this way. But now we're going to the second. What kind of bill is that? I heard Mr. Gabroglou who said things that if we didn't live in this country, we'd say what man says! Does Mr Gavroglou blame New Democracy and the rest of the Anti-Population for partisan democracy, in a bill in which you are effectively abolishing school advisors and abolishing evaluation with an exclusive objective - who? - to send a minor effort signal, to go down everything, to win votes. That's what this is about. You have the courage to come and talk about partisanism, as if you rule first day. These, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you could have said before when you were in the opposition. After three years you've been in power and have seen what you've been doing - and you've appointed your Batjanaceans - can you talk about party rule anymore? This is where I remember the most immeasurable. Mr. Tsipras had interviewed a president who explained that he would abolish the posters. This gentleman, the journalist to whom Mr. Tsipras said that when he becomes Prime Minister he will abolish the posters, today he is a poster to Mr. Tsipras at the Maximos Mansion! He, who would be abolished! And do you have the face to tell us again about the party rule? I do not say names in Parliament. You don't have to. Put it on Google: "Tsipras vs. transmigrants" and you'll find it. He's made 1 million views. I say this to understand the consistency of words and works. You are in a government now denounced with evidence - and the troika has heard you - that you went to appoint general secretaries supposedly via ASP, with photographic notices and that the ministers have taken the files of the contestants to ensure that yours enters. And after you've done this, do you come and talk about partisan rule? Are we going crazy? And of course, we are now going to the immaterial as to what Mr Gavroglou said about your achievements in education. Amazing achievements! It's all going from good to better. I challenge you, ladies and gentlemen, since you so much like your achievements and everything is going well, we must now go if you all want to join Mrs Sia Anagnastopoulou in ASEAN. Do you want to go for a walk together with ASAE? I, unfortunately, go through there every day. Would you take your child to S.H.I.E.L.E.L.D. to study? Three quarters of everyone you're in here talking about public universities or taking your children to private schools or private universities. And you let the poor Greek people have a university like ASE, all hanging in the bars and threatening violence threaten students if they dare and protest. And you, the good people of the Left and Mr. Gavroglou sit down and watch that students are threatened with violence, if they dare protest, because they cannot learn from loudspeakers or from smuggling or from anything else. And that is what you say, "the achievements of the SYRIZA on education" and you are not ashamed. So, on the substance of the matter, you have violated the parliamentary procedure and you are mocking us, because you brought a bill of two hundred articles just from the public consultation to be discussed on Monday. No one's ever been able to read it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be right back, Mr. President. I am sure that the thorough study would show that there are also a number of ruffles in it. Because otherwise this study can't be justified. This premiere, in other words, to pass the bill from Friday to Monday, obviously, she's hiding something. Why didn't he come on Thursday for Monday? Why didn't he come for a Monday? It's obvious you've set something up inside of it and something you've hidden. And all you did, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because now that you've ruled, it seemed your real face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u262	Thank you. Mr Saridis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has been speaking for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish the hundreds of four thousand candidates who have been considering their introduction to higher education since today. I hope that this generation will remain in Greece, that it will be capable, that we will also help Greece and that we will not have any more greek capital of scientists in foreign countries. A request for education. How many times have we all ended up in this Chamber to comment on bad practices and bad habits or to praise actions and behaviors, and to repeat the finding that everything is a matter of discipline? So a question of education. How much can this phrase explain? The list is really endless. The question of education even belongs to whether or not we throw the butt out of our car window, if we respect the hours of common quietness, whether we park in the positions of AMEOs, if we offer our place to an elderly person on the bus. All of this and hundreds of other Greek society traditionally bears it in the education that each one of us, each of the Greek citizens, carry in it. That is the truth, the very well-founded one in our country, which seems to be self-evident that it should also be the basis on which this House should build and not break down, as it has been doing for forty years. Instead, every time the government changed, even every time the Minister changed, we see this even today, in this House - all the issues and problems of the Ministry of Education's competence are treated almost on a zero basis. The only area of policy in our country that has more reforms, more changes and revisions than has been achieved in the field of education and education, is the one concerning the taxation of Greeks. He's the only one. And that's another truth. If something has been deprived of this place over time, it is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. As a result of the inconsistency of the governments of post-population and the inefficiency they have shown, either because of their inability or because of the service of various interests, it is to be consolidated in the consciousness of our fellow citizens until today, at the moment when we are talking, the opinion that if you do not pay caregivers and teachers at home, you deprive your children of their future, you deprive your children of the opportunity to study. No bill, no reform, no revolution in education from the many that have been announced, advertised and carried out for forty years has succeeded in changing the Greeks' view that if you don't pay, your child will not succeed in studying, he will not have a good future. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not legislate what they need - and we know what they are - in order to overturn this perception, which is accompanied by the conviction that the area of public education is one of the most part-partyed areas in Greece, we cannot talk about substantial changes, we cannot talk about substantial revolutions. Therefore, instead of announcing the successes of our legislative initiatives and making progress in great and possibly hollow promises, it would be right to accept that we should judge what we will ever be able to achieve if this situation has changed for for forty years, since the Migration and then, on the basis of which for decades Greek families, ladies and gentlemen, have been taking their decisions on the future of their children and on how they decide to manage their family budgets so that they can cope with the burdens of the parasitic phenomenon of misconduct. In my opinion, the Greeks' clear view of the value of acquiring education is evidenced by the number of people who accept to be deprived, to be weighed up, to be forced to study their children so that they have this very opportunity in life, the opportunity in the future. No sacrifice seems greater for Greeks when they talk about their studies and the future of their children. We all know that in this Chamber. Unfortunately, this very honest attitude of life by all Greek families, which is an integral part of our tradition and culture, has never been adopted by the domestic political system rather than by words. There is nothing to do with the substance. I repeat that the proof of what I claim is the simple truth, shared by the vast majority of our fellow citizens, that if you don't pay too much and care for your child the opportunities he may have. It is of little importance, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not legislate with these procedures that we are currently enacting. Dear Minister, five hundred eighty-seven pages bill in three days? I am very sorry, but we should not go into that logic on such important issues. It is of little importance, therefore, to what procedures we legislate when compared to what we have in mind. The Greeks are no longer interested, you know, in whether we have consulted, who and for how long we have either fought or found them. The apathy of our fellow citizens towards these issues is the result of the disgrace that has led to the Greeks' consciousness the prolonged abuse of parliamentary procedures. For many years, the mockery of public consultation and the elaboration of democratic institutions by representatives of the political system. A public consultation, as is happening at the moment, in our day, is sufficient, gives everyone the opportunity to participate, to express an opinion? Do we take the opinion of others seriously in a public consultation? Do we add it to the legislative work? How many times has that happened? Greeks are now judging our legislative initiatives directly and exclusively by the results they will have in their daily lives as they experience it when they sit on their family tables to set up their financial obligations. The details of the draft law were analysed by our rapporteur, Mr Megalostas, very well, who has even tabled specific proposals on several issues of responsibility for the Ministry of Education and we are waiting for their assessment, adoption or rejection, but with arguments. He presented with these arguments our attitude to individual issues and substantiated our decision to vote'residents' in principle in this bill. I would therefore just like to add a few words, by commenting on the very important ministerial amendments tabled in today's bill. I begin with Amendment No 1608/169, which concerns the amendment and supplementation of certain provisions of Law 1077/1980 concerning the organisation and operation of the retraining departments in the tourism sector. This amendment does not agree with us in the Central Association and we will vote against it, because the requirement of the Board's proposal is being removed. the organisation to regulate issues of their organisation and operation, including recruitment of educational and administrative staff. Amendment No 1615 and Amendment No 172, which seeks to regulate serious issues falling within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, contains something very important to me. It contains something very important for my city, Thessaloniki, and I believe that for all the fellow Members of Thessaloniki, I will therefore insist on that. It is the vote on this amendment that is a very important step for the creation of the Holocaust Museum in Thessaloniki, allowing the municipality of my city to participate actively and on the substance of this very great effort, that is, to stand up to our history, recognising our obligations, never forget the fate of the Greek Jews in Thessaloniki who were slaughtered by the Nazis and fascists. We Pontius - Pontius - in origin - and the Armenian Greeks, like our fellow citizens, the Jews and our friends in Israel, know very well what the words 'genocide', 'holocaust', because the definition of these words was very simply written with the blood of our ancestors. Finally, because many speakers have heard here today, referring to various books, I too would like to contribute with my humility to the academic dialogue that has been opened and the most competent, the most educated by me, and I also refer to a book which I consider to be very important and suggest that you read it, those of course who have not read it. It is the work of Postman Neil entitled "Education as a means of overthrowing the establishment". I suggest it to you. I have already referred to this once again, but I would like to remind you of the words of an English colleague from the old, Gdi, who said in 1830, addressing the members of the English Parliament at that time: 'As far as it may seem paradoxical, the measure of giving free education to the poor and workers would be disastrous both for their moral status and for their happiness. In fact, education would teach the poor to hate their social status, their social situation, so that they do not become good servants, farmers and workers, occupations that their position in society has already been predetermined. Instead of teaching them subjection, education would despair them and make them fighters, often observed in industrial cities. The lawsuit would allow them to read subversive brochures and books dangerously, perhaps even anti - religiously, would make them disobedient to their superiors. It follows that, in a few years' time, Parliament will be compelled to use it against the violence and to adopt laws which concern them, much stricter than those which have been in force so far." Ladies and gentlemen, because you are also a left party, the revolution in education, which you, too, as an Opposition, have mentioned, you do not bring it with such bills, you do not bring it in this way. I'm so sorry. We are voting'residents' in principle in this bill,'residents' as a whole and in terms of articles as they will be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u264	Thank you. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Gülekas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we begin to wish our children good luck with their tests and to tell those who make good progress in their lives, but if they do not succeed, there is nothing to do with temporary failure. Life is full of successes and failures and they should not take it heartfeltly. We all went through this process and many of us went through a lot of failures until we found another way that we finally chose to follow. I'm coming to the second topic. I would not say that, but I am referring, because yesterday we had the condolences for Macedonia across Greece and I heard some SYRIZA Members speaking and commenting on these rallys, and I heard a Member saying that "every time I see them taking the Greek flag, some and go out I worry about the course of our national topics", like some other SYRIZA Members, who said that "you know, we will not point out how Skopje will be named, to find their own name, to point it out, to choose and to end." So I want to make it clear, where are we? Because it is tragic in this Chamber to wonder about the National Representation where the process is going. We learn from Zoran Zafe some things and do not confirm or deny them by the Greek Government. Of course, we must also say something else - and I am ending this, because I must also come to the point of the bill - that Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister of the country, is mistaken, if he thinks he is negotiating on behalf of the Greek Government. Because in here, of course, we have only one representative of the ANEL party, the party that supports the government. In here, the government's partner in the country's governance does not agree. So he negotiates as Head of SYRIZA and not as Prime Minister of the country. So, is it legitimate as head of a party from the government's formation to proceed to such procedures? And because I see that government officials are trying to incriminate New Democracy for allegedly recognizing Macedonian language - is Babiniotis out, he said, he said, he said, he said, nothing, there continue to speak to government officials - are you looking for an alibi, ladies and gentlemen? Have you recognized Macedonian language and Macedonian identity and you're trying to say that, you know, some others did it and we're pressing there? If you have done so, we tell you that this thing does not legalise you in no way bring it to the Greek Parliament and you do not legalise in any way to try to pass it. Alas, if you have recognized Macedonian language and Macedonian identity. It'll be tragic. You have a national issue and you do not have that right! [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] I now come to the bill very quickly, ladies and gentlemen. It's a bill on education. But I'm sorry, because this is happening with you. You have baptized what you consider normal. Do we abolish excellence in education? That's the real thing. We must not have standards! That's the real thing. All these years Greek society has worked with standards, but we had to change that, because the normal thing for you is to abolish excellence. You come today, unregulated, bring a bill - mammoth, five hundred pages, 115 articles, which you file Friday night and for you is normal all this. Does it not mean that this thing is essentially equivalent to a parliamentary coup? Because you are calling us here to decide on a bill that we did not even have time to read. Not only that, this is a bill that has met a strong reaction from the whole educational world. Well, you don't take into account what the Opposition says. The educational world, don't you think of it? Here you have the former President of OLEME. He's Mr. Kotsifakis, who I've worked with before at the Ministry of Education. All his colleagues are reacting. At that time, Mr. Kotsifakis was one of the eminents at the Ministry of Education. Today, he's your advisor. Isn't he telling you that the educational world is reacting to what you're bringing? Why do you keep going? Are you so obsessed to bring them, Minister, and in this way? You filed it in March with 51 articles. You left it ten days in the consultation and you are bringing it back on Friday night, with 115 articles, five hundred pages. That's a great parliamentary procedure! Good, because this really is how you honour parliamentary procedures! However, I would remind you that you were the ones who once conquered the previous governments when they did something similar in Parliament. You guys are doing it today. So it's normality. After SYRIZA does it, it can't help but happen that way. Excuse me, the educational world reacts and you don't pay attention to it. Did you hear anything about the National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities, the ESDC, which literally denounced you that there was no dialogue, that there was no consultation? Is that what you're interested in, too? Do you have the authority to decide everything and do not need consultation? You were denounced by the CSCE that there was no dialogue. But shouldn't you call on the issues that concern them? Why did the bill come in with an urgent procedure? Where does that come from? What is it you want to set up, save and well, and you have to do it now, so the new school year won't catch up with us? I'll tell you what it is right now. Your party places. I refer to Chapters III and IV, Articles 21-43, for the evaluation of training staff. What are you doing here? While the European Commission has been forced to follow an evaluation procedure, hierarchy, etc., with the provision of Article 36, instead of starting from the choice of regional directors through an inconsistent procedure, what are you doing? You take them and you appoint them as presidents of the selection boards. In other words, the parties you have placed without an evaluation procedure you have put presidents to assess these colleagues. And that's what you say, too, regularity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please allow me to conclude. In addition to all this, there are other points which I do not have time to develop, such as health issues. I told you what RESEMA says. I told you about those articles with which you are effectively abolishing school advisors in one - I would say - revenge. I repeat that you are not explaining why you are bringing all this into urgent procedure. In conclusion, I would like to talk about an amendment that I have read and made a terrible impression on. This amendment concerns the Agency of the Athens Concert Hall. Minister, I do not know if you accept this amendment. To direct you a bit if you have not been able to see this, this man has been chosen. An amendment is tabled and listen, ladies and gentlemen, to the regularity of SYRIZA and what the SYRIZA Members present suggest in the amendment at the end: ‘The validity of the present is commencing on 1 January 2018’. In June, you are going to set up something to which you even have a prediction to apply since January, because he has chosen director for the Athens Concert Hall and now you are making the law, since you have chosen the man first. That's never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u266	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u267	I hope you won't accept it. Because something similar happened in the Athens Concert Hall. First you chose the man and then you brought an amendment to the House to legalise the procedure. An amendment was tabled today. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it must have an administrative experience from the wider public sector. Yes, of course, that's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u268	Please, Mr. Giuleka, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u269	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. But I ask this: does it have to have an artistic experience? Because we are talking about the Agency of the Athens Concert Hall. So he must have a broad artistic experience. Is that the case? Mr Minister, before you accept the amendment, I would ask you to check it very much, because once again you will come to legalise events that have taken place before and today some colleagues are asking you to cover them with the acceptance of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u270	I've been accepted, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Güleka. The Minister has asked for the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u273	Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am trying throughout the SYRIZA governance - ANEL to see, evaluate and judge with clearly educational criteria your legislation in the field of education. Three ministers have been inaugurated at the Ministry of Education. Several laws on primary, secondary, university, research and innovation have been passed. Some of these legislative initiatives, in my opinion, returned education decades back. Some other legislative initiatives have literally eroded what the previous governments have built. Some others were completely inappropriate and unconstitutional, and that is why you came then, later, to dig out what had been voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of adding to what has been good in the past - and you all know very well - and you, Mr Minister, and the educational community, that there have been many positive steps in the past, and the country has also taken many steps in the field of education - and to give your own stigma, you have come with the arrogance of the newborn to discover America again. The Government has followed practices that have not been implemented anywhere. Ignore the educational community. It has not taken account of the European experience. He has not even dealt with best international practices. He didn't study. The issues were dealt with in an incredible lightness, the government criticizing as if they were commentators and not rulers. Ladies and gentlemen, I saw the Minister commenting and referring to evaluation and saying that the state cannot do its job properly, cannot organise the evaluation. I want to tell you too and remind the Minister. It is truly surreal to present your own inefficiency as an argument for your positions. Because, Minister, you rule. You're three years of government. You are responsible for organising and implementing any evaluation if you believe it. It is not an alibi to curse the state and it is not an alibi to make a policy, in my opinion, credential. Ladies and gentlemen, all the previous legislations of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government were the result of disobedience, ignorance of reality, ideality, attachment to a time that, unfortunately, has been overcome. In this sense, I can say to some extent - to find excuses - that you have been in the past years, these have voted: Universities open to bazaars and collectives, a Roman student movement in response to lawlessness, state centralism, bureaucracy, Ministry of Director. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's draft law I cannot see any excuse and speak in particular. There's no targeting. He doesn't have a direction. You don't care about the educational process. You don't care about teachers, teachers, teachers. You don't care about students. You don't care to leave anything behind. What you care about is your political survival, not to be emancipated by the weight of your heavy defeat that comes in the next election. That's all you care about and it's your concern. That is why today's bill came, which does not serve any need or correct pathogens of the past. The aim is for the government to salt the education administration from its parties without merit and with unstable criteria. They change the molecules for training managers, for language and for others without it coming from a study, to be objective and measurable in numerical terms. Writings you pay back, close the eye in your election clientele, and do so by effectively abolishing school advisors, experienced and respected executives, with an anti-constitutional provision. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament has made its comments to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u275	It's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u276	It remains unconstitutional, Mr. former Minister. By changing the molecules criteria for managers by merged and abolishing structures with experience, by setting up committees appointed by the Ministry, which these committees under your guidance - I told you and the committee responsible - will come to judge and choose the next education administration. You don't care about the kids. You don't care about teachers. You took ten thousand assignments and managed through the third and fourth assignments to reduce the alternates from twenty thousand to seventeen thousand. You are playing with the future of children and the life of teachers in a cynical way, in my opinion. And all that to maintain the government's electoral clientele. That's the target in all the bills. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against today's bill. We ask the government to withdraw it and we tell you, Minister, that a new government under Kyriakos Mitsotakis will come soon enough to give home prospects and future, to give way to the new generation of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-nine students and students and seven teachers - their attendants from the Elementary Schools of Kirkizon Artas, Letenitsas Artas, Kalovatos Artas, Rachis Artas, Ammotopou Artas and Milies Artas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman of the ANELs, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. I heard a Congressman before. With all due respect, I don't remember who he was now. I guess it was Mr. Giulekas. I did not intend to refer to what I would say, but just before the second world war Thomas Man had written a prophetic book: "Mario and the wizard", where with religious superstitions, with strange theories, which had nothing to do with rationalization, predicted with mathematical accuracy that it would become World War II and confirmed. I remembered another book, which was written twenty years ago by the old director of "Le monde diplomatique", Ignasio Ramonet. In this book almost mathematically he predicted that politics will give its place in the economy, money and profit will prevail, a small lobby will direct people's fates. In this book, in the "Geopolitan Chaos", it was actually vindicated. That's how it happens today. Our whole life is defined by few people, most of them are not elected, politics has given its place in the economy and it is very important what education has to do with these realities. I want to tell you this about some of the best universities in the world, like the University of Oxford or the University of Cambridge. I'm leaving to the United States, Stanford, Harvard, MIT. There the people of the market are waiting for how and what to get the best graduates and join their businesses. The whole world knows that thing. They're these people, the hard gears of a system. Let's see where he's driving. That is where this form of education leads. It leads to the fact that - I will repeat it for once - according to a credible 'OXFAM' survey, eight people on the planet - I can tell you that already - they have assets - it leads to the terrible education of these major universities - the poorest three and a half billion people on the planet, and we are sitting and looking, as Varnalis said, 'true, fatal and harmless in return'. This education is leading us and this education is directing us. But that's not all. We see with mathematical accuracy the environment is destroyed. This leads to this education of these famous universities, institutions, which are reference points. A large piece of kids around the world want to go there to study, these universities to finish. I could mention two hundred other examples. The war that takes place in Syria, who guides him? Some people sell oil, some other weapons, some other energy, and we see something going on unbelievable, unreasonable in our minds to win some people. This is the education that prevails on the planet today. It literally tortures an entire continent, Europe, but mainly Greece and Italy. Says one: "Well, how to stop this thing is not there?" Why these people?" Just Greek. Money and profit are the driving force, what Ignasio Ramone said in "Geopolitan of Chaos" and which some people then went through and didn't deal with. I would also like to say this: When Kazantzakis wrote "Last Pirate" he was hunted as much as anyone else. The same was the case with "Accession". The incredible war continued with the "Christ is crucified" and with his last book, the "Refer to Greco". No one remembers who chased Kazantzakis then. But we all remember the great Greek today. I don't think there's anyone who's questioning his value. I still want to remind him he had another education. So we're looking for education now. Did we get there? Oh, no. I would also like to say that when Costas Gabras was turning "Z" for a 1963 event that took place on a murder, the murder of Gregory Lambraki, there was a matter all over the planet. Iv Montan was leading other famous actors. There was no man on the planet who didn't know what happened then. What kind of education did Gregory Lambrakis have? He was a successful doctor who never dealt with money, never with profit. I'll go back a little bit, and I'll remind you what discipline Diogenis had. Alexander had gone to Diogenes - which is also timely, I do not remember Alexander, Diogenes, I remember - since he was impressed with the other in the fork. And he says, "What do you want? Whatever you want, I'll give it to you." And Diogenes answers: "Have a little more there, because you're hiding the sun for me." So is education the solid ground on which a society can stand to survive? Because with today's data and current educational standards this society is destroying itself. In fact, I would like to believe that many of you are concerned about the possibility of the planet being saved. An unanswered question. We don't know that yet. We are listening to Mr Trump saying that there is no ecological disaster. There is a mess here in Greenland or there are other things going on, and no one accepts the Paris Agreement. Is this all about education? Yes or no? I'm asking. I say it is. And I will read something that I liked: "In an ever-changing reality, with multiple consequences for people's social life, the need to redesign educational policies becomes more necessary than ever". I don't know if Mr. Gavroglou and his medical associates had finished, but I remember the definition of the cell at sea: In order to survive the cell, it must continue to adapt to the changing environment in question, simply Greek. I'm not the one to praise this move. I read the bill. I do not believe that this bill will solve all the problems of education. It's a slow step, it's got another dimension. It is the conflict of two worlds, of money, of profits, of monopolies, of competitiveness, of offshore, of those of education that has so far been the case and of another world that is aimed at society. Is the problem going to be solved? It is a very positive step and I believe that this step must be taken and must be supported by everyone. Finally, I would like to remind you of something that the assistant said: 'If you are useful in society, you want to be, death, glory and money you must overcome'. I don't know how many of us we've been through, but I'm sure the people who got past it are really useful in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, too. We continue with the next speaker that is Mr Thebes, a SYRIZA MP. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start my speech from the critical war: a lot of noise is being done today in relation to the urgency process and the lack of time. Colleagues and colleagues, we all know very well - and above all the stakeholders know - that the debate on this bill has been taking place in a formal or informal manner for eight months. I think, therefore, that only micro-policy produces a constant reference to this issue. Just one comment: This bill, like the others of this government concerning the Ministry of Education, is the only ones that were not voted on in the 15th century. Today we are discussing a bill whose philosophy and logic outweigh the reformist dynamics of his articles. In judging this bill, we must answer the prevailing questions arising from the existing situation in public education for decades, such as: Why does school tend to become a process for students? Why is there inequality in opportunities for education and development in higher education? Is there any logic for schools outside the walls, and how do we go through this today with extroverted action toward society? Is the teachers' associations working with the necessary educational, scientific and social autonomy, or are they the sum of processing units only of the curriculum? Are we satisfied with the way school advisors operate and the fragmented and uncontrolled way in which education structures operate? Was the way in which training executives were shown to be worthwhile? Was it essential to evaluate according to c.152, which introduced the punishing assessment and the availability? There's a lot we could say about it. One thing is certain: The bill fights against those who have reason to change nothing. For the New Democracy, of course, we understand that because it has never been a priority for the public school. On the contrary, he gave and gave the battle for the paid excellence of colleges. But opposition must respond to the unprecedented state of education. We have seen today the crocodile tears of Mrs Gennimata, who remembered the children of the people's families and the people's classes. Someone would really expect to hear a proposal. Unless it has been covered at the level of the political reform by the law of Diamantopoulou. Let's at least tell us. I would like to focus on a number of critical issues - points in the bill. As far as special education is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it is a comedian to listen from MPs, parties and governments, who up to the threshold of the twenty-first century had the special education of the learning population today to criticise the government for lack of interest. The State Secretary, Mr. Jufi, has referred to the doubling of staff. But we must finally understand that today society sees SYRIZA's policy within special schools, within the OSCE, and sees the infrastructure that is being done. There has been a lot of discussion about the evaluation. What assessment has been applied to date? Only one: n.e.c.152 from 2012 to 2014 with the well-known availability of the two and a half thousand teachers that the government has brought back. Why has no form of evaluation so far been carried out? Why has no one for decades dared to bring with them legislative initiatives an evaluation of educational and educational work? Because they would put their hands on the guilds and the bureaucracy that exists today and on the clientele system in schools. I want to say something about the evaluation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. With regard to moleculosis and avenues, strong objections have been raised because the teaching service, in the opinion of some, is being mobilized excessively. Ladies and gentlemen, you should understand that the training staff are neither officials of the Ministry of Transport nor of the ECA. The final recipient of all synergies in educational structures is the student. No one can plan and implement educational policies if it does not have an important experience in the education cell, which is the school class. If you want a personal view as a teacher, a school advisor should have taught all six classes of secondary education and all classes of specialty. The other position is that there are no permits. In fact, we should answer a question: with what educational, scientific and reasonable arguments is it good for a school to be one or a colleague of ten years of teacher and twenty-five years of manager of a school? On what basis will a school counselor return to class six years or take another place of administrative and management responsibility? Why is that bad? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, please. I'm done. In conclusion, I would like to say that this government is giving and will give the battle for the improvement and downgrading of the role of the teacher. We know that this is the crucial point. I mean, everyone knows that, they just don't want to confess. No teacher in the consciousness or reminder of the students and society remained a good school advisor. He stayed only as a good teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u281	Thank you. We're on our way to SYRIZA MP Mr. Sevastakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much. I am dreaming of a debate on the educational issues associated with the cognitive event, on the subject of cognitive objects, on how this very interesting phenomenon of the expansion of the scientific fields can be assimilated by the limited timetable, and even more on how to cross-check cognitive objects, such a debate that may go beyond conventions and uncertainties. The debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and today, a large part of it, has been conducted on an insecurity, a stressful political control. It hides a political targeting, control politically, in a close manner, the educational event. I think it is a vain approach, an approach that is not related to the reality of neither the teacher nor to scientific or cognitive reality. Much more does not relate to the agony of the students who today are a day of the start of this test, the subsidisation of the tests, the examinations, the children, the families so much time, so much money and such a piece of youth and firm thinking have invested it, they have installed it on the test. So this debate on cognitive arguments is slow. It is certain that the cognitive event in education is related to the organizational part. Education is an infinite area that is united by branches, co-ordinated settings, co-ordinated and co-operate working relationships, sometimes divergent, emblematic and hybrid settings, which have once been done and made work profiles, and these work profiles are often not assembled. The most plausible is the temporary, let us say, ladies and gentlemen, the nomadics of education - I am talking about substitutes in relation to permanent ones - but that is not all. There is also a kind of occupational insecurity of cognitive fields that perhaps life doesn't judge them, dominates them as critical and who are looking for a place in the sun. What sun? I think that the educational issue is still a matter for a country which has invested many years in education, in modernising its structures. He's got things done. These usually disappear. We have managed to have a whole high knowledge level, not always a cultivated knowledge, a knowledge of cultivation, but a knowledge of agglomeration. However, I think this is a chapter for our country. So I would like to have this debate. The mirror, to a very large extent, approach of counterpopulation, sees to the other what it is and accuses the other of what it involves or has applied for too many years. I think it is a deadlock and it does not organise the codes of a deep political exchange policy or the codes of a sound political opposition. It's important that I have philosophical differences. It's very important that I have theoristic differences. It is very important to have codes on which I organise these differences and not to look for shadows. I think the bill has potential. We know very well that the bills find their truth in the implementation, in the way that the community of teachers, the intellectuals of education and children, the students, will embrace it, assimilate it. I think that we have all the tools and the possibilities to exalt problems and find a way to disperse groups that make up the teaching continuum, the educational continuity, to link them up. We've got the tools. There's the quality substrate. I don't think we should get locked up by uncertainties. Besides, insecurity is a bad political advisor and usually does not give results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u283	Thank you. We are moving on with Ms. Anagnostopoulos, MP of SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a great deal since this morning, mainly from the Qualified Opposition, but also from the other Opposition. It's really like living in different countries. The Minister said this morning that with this bill, as well as with all the effort we have been making for education since 2015, we have been aiming to change architecture in education. He referred to some flagrant bills and flagship changes. We could say too much. I'll codify two things here. Finally, since 2015, not all the bills under the urgency procedure have been passed, most of them have passed normally - they conflict two different perspectives for both education and society itself. If, on the one hand, your approach is that we have a society where the questions of its time are, the questions posed by the complex reality do not concern us, but we are trying to restore an ideological continuity - and the ideological continuity and ideologies you have and I will explain below - to us the question is that we should answer the education in particular, in line with the complex problems posed by the age. We have heard nothing here about the crisis, about the ten years of crisis and about what happened in these ten years. We did have political leaderships in this place - and I am not going to zero everything - who listened to the questions raised by society, the needs of time, time and tried to answer more or less effectively. One of them was school advisors. In the crisis - and also before the crisis, but especially during the crisis until now - the response given by the Qualified Opposition was not to listen to the complex problems facing society and in the field of education. She found the crisis as an opportunity to pass things, which not only had nothing to do with the needs of society, but completely disoriented society from its real needs. In this context, the school advisors and support structures were put into a general principle: the elite of the excellent, an administrative structure of the excellent, which must control, direct and direct the teachers to whom you did not trust. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Yes, the abolition of d.d.152 is very important. I'm not going to argue whether it was for redundancies or not. We have experience of availability and all that. But most of all, it was the fear that inspired teachers. You are not as close as you are to the educational community. Why did he create fear? Because a hierarchical structure of excellence was created toward some who are permanently prone to doing bad things, that is, not serving the educational goal. What's the target? No one explained us in this room. Life excellent people don't exist in education. We're a lot of us here, and we know that very well. Where's the teacher tested? It's all tested in school class. What were the critical problems faced by teachers? Talk to any teacher you want, if you have any contacts. It was now that they had a complex school within the same class, children from different ethnic groups, from different religious backgrounds, from different family situations. The crisis has exacerbated this very much. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President, and I shall conclude. So, a school advisor, a single person, however important, can respond to the demands of a time as difficult as Greek society has experienced? And it's not just the crisis. In the various Councils of Ministers that I had taken part - and I imagine you too, Mr Minister, will know that better than me - the great question that was asked was: Good knowledge, good skills. We have a problem with the training of the new generation now following terrorist blows, how we amplify teachers in class, because there is the major problem. So the teacher, especially here in Greece, lifted a huge burden. So we need a multidisciplinary structure that can both train and support and, above all, exploit the experience of these people in the educational process. I'd like to say something about it, because we haven't noticed perhaps. A colleague said so this morning from SYRIZA, I think. What is produced in the school hall is of great importance. Can we use this? When the bill says that the teachers' association enters the core of this process with the bill, can we understand what that means? I'd have to say too much. But I want to say one thing. You've been shouting since this morning that we've been talking about regularity and all. All the effort that has been made since 2015 has been to bring about as much balance as possible, which has been overturned before the crisis, but especially in the context of the crisis, i.e. to highlight the role of the public school, so support structures, to the extent that it needed to be done. I won't say a number of other things that would be important, but I don't understand one thing. Here the world has been falling apart all these years, the world of ours, of society and you have been stuck in one thing, excellence. Excellency is to be able to survive a public system. Excellency is that teachers can do their job. It is excellent for young people to return from abroad and to be given scholarships. It is excellent to keep the universities up, all structures up and running by increasing the budget. Excellency is not to scream from morning to night and you are undermining public universities that there is violence and lawlessness. Mercy! And they go out and say, "Stop this violin, it's not the universities." Well, I'm saying the bill needs to be dealt with seriously. Of course, everyone can object, but the objections to how you respond to this new era, which has become much more complex and much more difficult than it was before. And I mean, you're yelling about PICs, about PICs and all that. I have seen, I may be mistaken, Mr Ministers, that the ERCs are increasing, the overall areas in fact. And I'm very happy to have problems, because there are problems, in Patras, for example, we'll have an extra ERIC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, too. Before I give you the floor, Mr Vaki, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, fifteen students and students and three of their teachers, from the Kastelios University School of Heraklion. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Bakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to make any reference to topical issues, but I was provoked by a previous Member of the Officerial Representation, who made reference to the naming of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the negotiations on which they are at a critical turning point. Once again, I am sorry to say this, but the Civic Opposition appears below the circumstances, constantly changing positions, avoids presenting a clear attitude. And it seems that tone really is being given by Mr. Samaras. Yesterday Mr Mitsotakis indulged the present government and even described the Prime Minister as "dangerous to national interests". It seems that nothing has been learned from the experience of 1992, which was a historic, a privileged opportunity to solve the problem. We all know - I think - why we have been here, for decades, so that the issue of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia can finally be resolved and what mistakes we have to correct. For Mr Mitsotakis, they are nationally beneficial, we are nationally dangerous. You are accusing the Foreign Minister of defending the arguments of our neighbours, despite the interests of the country. Instead of making an irresponsible mudology, it would be interesting to know what the New Democracy has to say about the name 'Macedonia - Skopje' which its government discussed in 2006. Hypocrisy doesn't stop here, of course. Yesterday you said to the New Democracy that it is not acceptable for Macedonian ethnic and Macedonian languages to be transferred. We are surprised that you do not know - and there are documentaries - or rather you do not know that in 1977 Greece had recognized Macedonian language. And you'll have to remember. And Mr. Mitsotakis was born then. Why, too - to tell us - abroad and specifically in Sofia, at the Summit of the European People's Party, were you speaking there about the name erga omnes and about constitutional change, and you say other things inside? It would be good if you could tell us what your position is and whether or not you should finally be resolved. On this occasion, I would also like to make a reference and reply to what my fellow Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy Mr Javarra said this morning. I wouldn't say that Mr. Javarras made a psychogram, but he made an attempt to identify SYRIZA's ideological identity or ideological mark and tell us at all times according to the fact that the ideological mark of the New Democracy is classical liberalism, accusing us that we have not clarified what our identity is and that we are constantly falling into oximos. Because, you know, self-criticism requires a certain degree of bravery, it is not unfair to be not to be unwitting, but to a reflection, in a constant reflection of his identity, when he experiences the predominant acidity of a left-wing rule mediated by a globalised, illiterate and barbaric financial capitalism, in a world that is solid and is despoiled by Marx, or because of Mr Javara - it is not in the Chamber - he likes Max Webber, in a world that is now in the hands and especially by Europe, and that is similar to the iron cage, which is also said by Webber, a cage made by the extreme right, whose ghost is unfortunately perpetrated over Europe and countries where the governments are members of your people who are deporting immigrants and who are deporting refugees. So you told us, and Mr Javarras told us that the New Democracy has a single ideological identity, that of classical liberalism. I am sorry, my colleagues, but the difference between classical liberalism and the new liberalism you are embracing is as great as the difference between democracy and the New Democracy at the moment. Where is the identity of classical liberalism presumed? When there are bills which, in order to vote for them, do not need to be left, it is enough to embrace and adopt the freedom of self-determination, as has been guaranteed and defended by classical liberalism and it is also constitutionally founded. I am referring to the cohabitation pact, in which you broke into three pieces, I am referring to the gender identity, I am referring to the recent draft law on assumption, I am referring to your lasting rhetoric daily for your vow to restore the C-style prisons, this legal abortion, this abortion of legal culture and the rule of law. Finally, I wonder how classic liberal attitudes, classic liberalism are, not just to be able to condemn, but not even to smuggle a condemnation of the far right, especially after the attack on the Mayor of Thessaloniki and how liberal it is to bring back a night - and that is, in fact, the element of the public word you are making - post-parentally bisecting naphthas and patriots and to resurrect from Naphtali the theory of both extremes, to fish in blur waters of nationalism. 'We condemn violence from wherever it comes' can also give a fig sheet, try to denouncing the left, but also give it, without wanting it - I do not always blame bad intentions - and a fig sheet on the right, because what do we do? The knives they murder aren't the same as the knives, nor the paints should be equated with murderous attacks. In order not to remember even the interview of the Chief of Officerial Response in "Politico", which certainly considered the Golden Dawn as a small and marginalized, unimportant team and left the uterus of violence. Not to mention - because this, of course, shows your relationship with classical liberalism and your perceptions of the economy - to surpluses in public, outdated eight hours and 'healthy' investments, which are of course based - I imagine - not to pay taxes and insurance contributions or, since it is so obsolete and outdated in eight hours, to have flexible workers. Is that a healthy entrepreneurship? I'm going back to the bill to say a few words. He said a fellow Member of the Officer's Representation that when you take over the rule - it is your vindication - you are committed to abolishing the draft law. Why? Because it promotes adequacy, dismantles education and is based on false allegations, etc. So, would you like to abolish it, in order to bring back which school, ladies and gentlemen of the Officership? You're telling us the 21st-century school. Bourdieu and Passeron, said by Mr Javaras - may - or by the student - customer, to withdraw Mr Mitsotakis' flawless memory? The school of mergers and the abolition of school units? The school that was founded on fear in the horror of class teachers you once degenerated to fearful employees in front of managers? So I would like to ask how with what you said today, will you at some point look into the eyes of the four hundred thousand young people who emigrated abroad, the blossom of Greek youth, the best scientists in the country? How can you look into the eyes of the two and a half thousand teachers, who you are doing for forgetting, whom you have made available, by abolishing the specialties of technical education? Why have you abolished them? They were public education structures. So you can hit them north with students - customers - in fact - in private IEK. I would like to ask you how you can look in the eyes at those teachers you were recruiting preventively, so that no one could mention the undoubted redundancies in private schools from the schoolteachers, which this government had to come to get a brake on this immunity? I would like to say a few words about the provisions of the bill that we are called upon to vote on today. I believe that the reorganisation, which is being attempted, of the primary and secondary education support structures, but also of the broader redesign of educational policies, are essential elements. There is a need for evidence if we want our educational system, which has been centralised for decades and without opportunities for educational autonomy, to become more open, more cooperative, ultimately democratic. I think this is an attempt to make this draft law on support structures, by setting up a change, for example, from the vertical and mono-faced structures to the horizontal, cooperative and democratic, taking into account the social role that the school has to play in these days. In this sense, therefore, new support structures are being set up at the level of educational regions and addresses which will replace structures that have so far been operated in an uncoordinated manner. These are the EGTCs, many colleagues have spoken about them, the Regional Court of Planning Centres, whose work will be enriched and no longer carried out individually. But also within the framework of the new Educational and Advisory Support Centres, the ERCY, and the new Sustainable Education Centres. Therefore, actions will now be coordinated with a view to consolidating, consolidating a dynamic interaction between school units and support structures. The JSYs, which are to be succeeded by the CEDEFOPs, the Centres for Diversification, Diagnosis and Support for Special Educational Needs, will have a wider role, which will not be limited to the field of special education and training and their competences as well as to issues of advisory and professional guidance as well as to support social development and progress of all pupils. The social dimension of the school is therefore stressed. The Environmental Education Centres. This is an important provision because it concerns the way in which the constitutionally established principle of sustainability becomes the subject of systematic development within the educational system. And we're going a little bit to this famous provision for the selection of training staff, which we didn't hear about rhysphetological provisions, anxiety. If we look at common sense, what does this provision say? It provides for this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. Thank you. It provides that thirteen regional training directors for the first time will be selected by the Central Selection Board, which is headed by a member of the AACC. So far, how have they been chosen? As postgraduate officials appointed by decision of the Minister concerned. And of course we remember who and how regional managers and training managers changed overnight. You're inconvenienced by the way of evaluation. Why is that? Why is it moving in a diametrically opposite direction to what you have done with the famous presidential decree of 152/2013, which - what to do? this says the presidential decree - would lead to mass dismissals of teachers. I know the article on the integration of refugees through the reception structures for their education. It is therefore possible, through the bill, to establish reception structures for the education of refugees operating within the framework of the formal education system. At least, this is a koruna not only of educational reforms but also of immigration policy, a policy that these desperate and outdated people said "good to them", embraced them and incorporated children into the educational system. Well, having been rooted out of their homes and homes, let us not deprive them of their right to education. I'm a little unorthodox, I should start with it. I would therefore like to wish, in my turn, for all the children who have been tested since today in the pan-Hellenic exams. Of course, this success is not guaranteed either by consecrated pens, or by students who must become customers at all costs. Success is guaranteed only through a school of equality, solidarity, cooperation and enlightenment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, Member of the Parliamentary and Vice-President of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. For Skopje, I cannot stand the temptation not to say that, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you must find them the way you have done and the way you have done with your voters. And I have the suspicion that in a few days, if you bring a solution, you'll have the pleasure of seeing how we deal with it. I would also like to say that the Prime Minister has done very well on the subject of violence, which the honourable Member has just spoken about, and has been present to Mr Boutaris for the attack on fascist animals. I did not, however, see any similar sensitivity to the police children who were under attack with the molotovs from the supposedly university asylum that you legislated on and for which you are proud of. Two yards and two weights, and I wonder why. The third point concerns the identity of the New Democracy. Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. The New Democracy was and remains a great centre-right party, trying to learn from its mistakes and your mistakes and to move forward in front of a new capital for the reconstruction of Greece and its economy. You need to see what your identity is, because with the pirouettes you have done, I think it should be very simple - so that you do not trouble - to put down the star that today is typically your badge and to put up in place a chameleon, because chameleon is what symbolizes your own policy. I come, Mr President, after these inevitable remarks in the bill. Minister, if someone passing through the country read the title of the bill, they would imagine that the Ministry of Education comes and adopts, for example, the model of Finland, the model of another advanced country in the administration of education, and so some things that really need to be addressed in our educational system, are treated in a tested way. What are you doing? The exact opposite. I shall mention three - four characteristic examples, very simply, to understand each other. You're removing school advisors. Did the institution work perfectly? No, I'm saying. Instead of stepping up the institution, however, instead of strengthening it, as is done in all European countries, you are replacing school advisors with teachers' coordinators, i.e. a bureaucratic structure away from the school unit, without substantial responsibilities for the daily support of teachers. This is the first achievement. Second achievement. Moving on to the path of partyization of education you make these selection councils, which are established for the selection of the heads of education or regional directors. On these boards, typically or informally, most members are appointed by the Minister. Many people say: "Since now, there have been no party writing samples in education. " Don't get tired. I'll take it. The question is, does any party who comes to put its own? Where's that thing going? Why do we not all commit together to truly and honestly dismantling education?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u289	And ASAP is a party?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u290	Look out, Minister, I've seen it. There is a person in the ADP who is in the committee and all others are, in fact, appointed by you. It's your long arm.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u291	Everyone else?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u292	If you really want to move on to the abstraction, rely 100% on the APA. What keeps you from doing it? Apparently, why do you have a micro-party agenda? Another example, on the same subject. In Article 3, the maximum limit of two terms shall be set for the same post of an instructor. If anyone is successful, we tell him: 'Man, up to two terms'. Third is forbidden. Why? Well, why, obviously, opportunities should also be given to SYRIZA's party friends. Is this also a modern concept of decoupling education? It could be my fault. I'm on my way. The third example. European universities working with Greek colleges. The issue has been dealt with by Community law, by Union law. There have been arrangements that have been in place for years. In Article 90, you regulate it in your own way, and the Scientific Committee of Parliament says that this is clearly contrary to Union law. Where are you going? In the reverse, you are going backwards in a few months, if you are still a government, you will also have to change this provision, because you will obviously be forced by the European Commission. It is clearly contrary to Community law. And last example is the notorious evaluation. Obviously, the evaluation should have gone on for decades in Greece and it was also wrong, if you like, and our party that was not as bold as it should be. What are you doing? You don't like our system that should have moved faster. On the other hand, what's your arrangement? Basically, it's the inauguration of evaluation. Because you have allergy to evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, no matter how much allergy you have to deal with the evaluation, there is an assessment that you cannot avoid. Whether you are holding elections in September or holding elections in May, you will be assessed by the Greek people and you will get under the base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u294	Do you want to use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u295	I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u296	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u297	There was obviously no lukewarm in the wrong. But you said that in the selection councils all of them are appointed by the Minister. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u298	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u299	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u300	I said there are some people from the APA, but there are those who are the long hand of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u301	Good. Look, you may have been misinformed through your partners. The board is chaired by someone from the AACC who chooses him from the AACC. A representative of the National School of Public Administration is involved, who is selected by this school. There are two members of the University LAG, nominated by the Minister after a public invitation. There's been a public invitation and they've been here, so, atrociously. There is a Director-General of the Ministry, who has come out of the new procedures in merit. None, not one of the Minister's. You know what happened so far?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u302	Don't get tired, Minister. I told you, put five people from the AAP. It was very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u303	This is another comitology. That's all I'm saying. You're the ones accusing us of being appointed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u304	That's all I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u305	Don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt you. Until now, the relevant S.A. Council, Public School, S.A., etc., has been appointed by the Minister. There was no SAPA, nothing. So don't tell me about the long hand and the short hand! And I say this to you because you have in fact made your criticism with a very mild tone. I accept it, but that's a pragmatic mistake you've made.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, may I have the floor to say something just about the Minutes, to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u307	However, it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u308	My position was clear, Minister. I said it wasn't right until now. I am not the one of this school that New Democracy, according to her, has done everything perfectly. I never supported it and I will not support it. I said we have a chance here, and you and we have a fresh start. And I said that step by step, let's go to five people who are all from the ADP, make the evaluation from the ADP and finish the matter there. That is what I believe, and I have said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u309	You said about the long hand of the minister. Wrong, that's all right. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u310	I think there is a party of interest and I insist on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Katsafandos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u312	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me not to avoid the temptation to say something about what SYRIZA's sympathetic parliamentary representative, who is in the Chamber, said. I would like to remind her that during the period when SYRIZA was in the years of the - Officerial and non-population at least half - not to mention the majority - representatives of SYRIZA were referring to Skopje as Macedonia alone. So don't blame us for inconsistency with our views on what it has to do with the scout. Also, I would remind you that it is excitement when you are trying to identify the New Democracy with the Golden Dawn. The New Democracy during its previous government term showed a strong will to clash with the Golden Dawn when you parliamentaryly joined her to throw down the previous government. Finally, when you talk about rheumatism - and we are talking about the Ministry of Education - I would remind you of the awkward situation in which the Prime Minister of the country was found, when the European Parliament, by addressing him the reason for the reforms that were taking place, a representative of the European Parliament said to him: 'One of the thirteen regional directors, how does eleven belong to your party and the other two not know what it is?' That's what I'm telling you about with the ruffles. But let's go to this bill. Minister, I really do wonder how you can and do a bill, which is so handy and is so fragmented, at the same time decommissioning parliamentary procedures, the institution of the House itself. However, through this process and the importance you give to the voices of the educational world, it is unfortunately also the importance you attach to the education of the country. It is another phenomenon, unfortunately, how sloppy you are to legislate. And this piece of legislation will add another sad demonstration of the depreciation that education experiences during your government. You told us, Minister, that the particular draft law was discussed in committee for eight months. Who were those eight months? A draft law was presented for consultation on 16 March with 51 articles. On 24 April a new draft was presented, so that on 31 May the presentation of the final draft with 113 articles, i.e. two bills at the price of one, was finally presented. He was presented on Friday night to the House to discuss the matter on Monday in committee with the urgency procedure without, of course, justifying that. So don't tell me that the reason it comes as an emergency is to find the educational community prepared in September. Because if you really wanted her prepared, you'd bring it months ago and give it time and importance to consultation. A new proposal, ladies and gentlemen, a redesign of multiple support for the educational project, must take due account of the existing situation, but also be characterised by vision in terms of, above all, soberingness and continuity. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, instead, bring in a draft paper that confirms the lack of programming, the absence of a serious educational policy and confirms the very worthy and educational crisis that governs you. It is a bill, which is unconstitutional, which is a definition of party intervention, of the indebtedness of the institutions, and which, if implemented, will lead to a collapse of what remains on the ground in education, a bill that certifies the government's will for a centralised and fully-partyly controlled system of education, a bid for party laundering, we would say, of the educational administrative pyramid. These methods are facilitated by the unprecedented prohibition of a new term of office to training officials after the completion of their second term of office. You are urging, in other words, high-secret executives and major experience, to exclude them from claiming their participation in the successor institution, the coordinators of the educational work, even using manifestly unconstitutional means, excluding from the selection procedures for those who already have two terms instead of actually rewarding the experience. This will lead to the removal of experienced staff, thus weakening training by skilled staff. The authors of the draft law set out positions, assumptions and approaches without any research and service documentation and arguments, with intuitive wordings and scientific assumptions which, however, differ from educational reality. The proposed framework for the selection of all the executives, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, is unfair, an abstract and allows the margin to be used as a tool for the party suppression of education. But that is not just what we are saying, the bad Census, but almost all the institutions in the committee have said. In addition, you are abolishing the schoolteaching institution of the school advisor introduced by a proposal from the ILO. Instead of supporting and improving this institution, it is replaced by the PECF, a centralized superstructure, away from school units, teachers, students and parents. How will there be elementary support in school units in terms of teaching and scientific level by executives, which will be concentrated in regional administrations and thus away from school? Remove the institution of CEDEFOP instead of being strengthened and upgraded. The abolition takes place without any study of the structures supported by the educational work, without having studied and evaluated the practices of the past, with the positive and negative effects of these structures. So the bill comes and it abolishes the structures and merges them into a superstructure. They are transformed into anonymous bureaucratic structures without permanent staff and without infrastructure, away from the real needs of support for students, families and teachers. In practice, with the abolition of CEDs, we return to the medical model and to tails in the medical centres for simple diagnosiss and not for multidisciplinary educational evaluations, in order to provide effective support for students and their parents. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a decades' return to the sensitive area of special treatment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a little more time. You are renamed Environmental Education Centres to Sustainable Education Centres. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not stand by the name, although I personally disagree that the term 'environment' is missing. At the moment, with so many environmental and ecological threats around us, it is important that we prepare our children properly, tomorrow's citizens in this country to deal with the acute environmental problems in the ecosystem. For this reason, environmental education must be intensified and not weakened. And, of course, values such as ecological consciousness, they should run the whole education system. The new superstructure created, the Educational and Advisory Support Centres, the ERCY, is effectively grouping together without consistency existing support structures, which operate with multiple shortcomings in both human resources and the necessary resources and infrastructure. This creates multiple reference centres, which are doubtful whether and how they will work. In the form of funnel, the new structure attempts to welcome and merge through inefficient processes, without any prediction and pedagogical vision, institutions and services that have so far supported the work of the school unit. I therefore believe that the ERCF is responsible for such responsibilities and will be the recipient of a huge range of requests, which is very difficult to respond and will probably disorientate, rather than help students and parents. Decentralise in essence innovative actions, professional orientation, health education, cultural and environmental actions, KEPLINET and degrade the Environmental Education Centres. Ladies and gentlemen, because there is little time, I mentioned some of the changes provided for in this draft law, because it is impossible to talk to everyone. The only thing for sure is that the attempted changes destabilize all the educational structures and introduce a new multi-teacher system of new institutions, without substantial study and dialogue with the educational community. The desecrated process you are planning will, unfortunately, bring the educational community before-finding events and will make the start of the new school year uncertain and what we are unfortunately voting on today will in practice be inapplicable. But education, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, cannot withstand any other blows, other experimentation and policies of indifferent populism and inefficiency.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u313	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u314	In conclusion, I would have expected, Mr Minister, that you had exceeded this microbe, not only of populism, but of the microbe of dogmatism, of the ideas of education. But I'm afraid you haven't gotten over it. But the New Democracy will come to the next elections, no matter what they are, so that it can give the education that the new generation really needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u315	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Theocratic, SYRIZA MP. Mr. Sanctuary, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, is there an educational or public servant voting for Mrs Mitsotakis or a New Democracy? Is there an educator or a civil servant who has forgotten the ruthless hunter of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and of New Democracy in general at the expense of civil servants and in particular teachers, the "surprise" of the two thousand teachers of GELs, the intimidating periodic evaluation, the return and so many others mentioned by colleagues? If there is one, then it is not a political matter, but it will probably be suffering from the Stockholm syndrome that the lawyers say, which is when the victim falls in love with his rapist. It doesn't explain any other way. Ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to wish the students of High School good luck in my turn. I hope winners come out of this battle. But remember that the important thing is the war of life and not the individual battles. But what did our department do to make life easier for students in High School? I'll say two specific, very practical things. First, they only gave tests to four in-school classes, and so the so pressurized students of the Third High School were relieved of unnecessary fatigue. It's a very good measure. The counterfeiting industry has also been abolished because the justified - unjustified absenteeism has been abolished. But in high schools, who finished their examinations yesterday in a few basic lessons, unlike previous years, this ensured valuable teaching time. The previous years of high school and high school ended early May and then wrote exams a month later. It was absurd. Schools had become exam centres and were dispersed since May. It's not like that. This came back, precisely because we care about the student. In fact, I have private knowledge to confess to you, as my children are both in high school and in high school, and I live as a parent. As we care about the student with measures that seem simple, but are so important for children, so with this bill we care about the teachers of order, deed and school. There's no more important thing. He's the one we trust our children to. If we think of whom we trust the most sacred, the most important thing we have, which is why we fight day and night, he is the educator of the class, of the act, which, for the first time, takes the value of this bill. Because this bill shows up work in the school class, that is, where education is breathing, where her heart is beating, where learning mystics is taking place. We raise the work that is being done there, dig it up and turn our attention on it. We're jumbling in the essentials. That is why we are giving more molecules to the teaching experience. We're focusing on class teachers. That must be our concern. He supports the system and the educational process. We trust our children in his hands. As we highlight the importance of class education, we also highlight the collectiveity of the school. That is why we are approaching school in a collaborative and interdisciplinary way and not a single-personal and one-dimensional way, as now. School issues are resolved in the school community first. The PCIs, which are the Regional Educational Planning Centres, simply consult. The one who solves the issues is the school club. This is a very positive measure and a consistent request from teachers. From the one-faced authority of the Director, we pass collective management, codecision and co-responsibility of all teachers. Isn't that what teachers were asking for? They were asked to be heard, to be given the floor for the things they know. This is to satisfy the criticism of teachers that so many years they have been applying things that others decided about, far from school reality. Because school teachers know better than anyone in practice the problems of school and students. I will say a few words about the evaluation, because some things have been said. We're removing the n.e.c. 152, which was a constant request from teachers. I will just say, in reply to Mrs Kerameos, that it may not have been explicitly stated that there will be 20% redundancies - what she had leaked had been agreed by Mr Mitsotakis and by the then government of Samaras - Venizelos - but the way the Presidential Decree, which could be judged as incomplete and while it had leaked that there was an agreement whereby a percentage of civil servants would be fired, was evident. Here they fired GLP teachers and local policemen without evaluation. They were sleeping permanently and waking up otherwise, because the numbers were at ease. Where is the evaluation, in which you are judged by someone as incomplete? With this bill, we release healthy forces in the field of education. We are giving voice to those teachers who were distant from the PASOK Diploma - a new Republic that was changing and giving them the necessary space to work, to inspire and - why not? - to be commanded and let them be unreserved. As the Undersecretary, Mr Baxvanakis, quite rightly said, if we wanted to be partisan, we would leave things as they were. The changes we've made are to get into the field of education more dynamic and those who were in the middle of the last decade. As you know, all four ministers are teachers. If you see our MPs, we have a lot of teachers. Most of us have finished public school. Someone will rarely be found to have finished private school or universities. We believe and have experienced public school and universities themselves. I close, Mr President, by replying to the Vice-President, Mr Hatzidakis, who says that we will be judged by the Greek people. Yes, he will judge us, Mr. Vice President. He will judge how we got Greece, under what conditions, with how many difficulties and with painful compromises we make it from the memorials and where we take it. From you, however, from New Democracy, what can he judge? The scandals that put us in the memoirs? The same scandalous memoirs? The loans you gave and took with "air" and the New Democracy still owes? The equipment? Health? There's so much else. If the Greek people put us in a strict position, you must return to your home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u317	Thank you. We're continuing with Mrs. Olga Kefefaliannis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, we are very disappointed to note once again that the government is engaged in the ordinary legislative process by means of the urgent procedure. This time it's a victim of education. There has been a bill that was in the consultation half, the rest of you hid it until you filed it last Friday, and we can't really understand where the concept of urgency lies. Perhaps in the discontent caused by dialogue in your government. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law provides for the abolition of existing educational support structures. For example, I will refer to the Regional Training Centres, the Advisory and Guidance Centres, the Environmental Education Centres. You are abolishing them, Minister, not because you think that they are not doing work or doing nothing, but to create new structures of your own. You are obviously not concerned about the improvement and modernisation of the existing structures, which you are fully deceiving. You dismantle their function, ignoring that their work has significantly supported the educational system. You remove the institution of the school advisors, whose role has made a decisive contribution to improving the work of the school unit and the quality of the learning process, rather than because its bodies were in favour of evaluating education. You inactivate scientific executives of education. Of course, you are abolishing the evaluation of teachers and setting, as usual within the limits of the Constitution, conditions for the selection of management officials by introducing the limitation of the two terms and the evaluation of training staff with anonymous questionnaires. Apart from the institution of excellence, you are now deceiving scientific and work experience. In addition, without apparently taking into account the operational benefit of the school's support so far from the intermediate institution of the school counsellor within its natural area, you are institutionalizing a massive, bureaucratic structure - Educational and Advisory Support Centres - at the headquarters of each region. In this way you effectively leave teachers and students without support within the school environment. Once again you remind us that your political decisions lead to overconcentration of the state according to anachronistic logic. It is clear that the changes and delimitation of the selection procedures are also the quintuosity of your new legislative intervention. The purpose of your new project is based on the service of your party interests. The same applies to your so-called modernistic view of creating new structures. You really want to create new tanks to satisfy your micropolitical interests. That is where the restriction is aimed, namely the unconstitutional blockade of two terms. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to stress here also my deep concern at the irresponsible experiments regarding the institution of special education, which will now be part of a framework of medical care. You are shifting the treatment of sensitive disability issues and special learning difficulties to the institutions of the Ministry of Health. In other words, their management will now be integrated outside the educational environment. It has been right so far to approach these issues within a pedagogical framework and it is wrong to give these issues a dimension. Responsibility and lack of sensitivity to serious issues relating to the student population, parents and teachers. Tell us honestly how it is possible to make such serious political decisions in the absence of specialized support, study and scientific dialogue? Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to see that the government does not hesitate to harm the core of our educational system, the lifelong material, the scientists and teachers who support it and strive for it. And above all, the government does not hesitate to attack with unprecedented irresponsibility, without planning and scientific dialogue, the sensitive school population. This is a bill aimed at partyising education as well. It is therefore our duty to vote against, in substance, this draft law, for its unacceptable, anachronistic logic, with the lack of scientific evidence of the methods of dealing with sensitive issues relating to the school population, for the purpose it serves, which at all levels but for the benefit of education goes hand in hand with irresponsibility in education. In no society that wants to progress, the institutions and structures of an educational system that needs to be improved in the interests of the social interest cannot be undermined. I close, ladies and gentlemen, with an amendment that we also vote against and concerns the possibility of the Director-General of the Thessaloniki Concert Hall by officials and officials from government and the wider public sector. As you know, the Athens Concert Hall is a historic cultural centre in Northern Greece. The Director-General of such an organisation with huge administrative, organisational and economic requirements, obviously has to have high expertise, knowledge of this market, high administrative capacities and be able to formulate development strategies. The amendment which is suddenly introduced, and indeed, as you are aware, a parliamentary amendment - you are hiding behind your Members, rather than the Minister coming to support what he wants to do - is another sad attempt to depreciate our cultural stock. The management of the Thessaloniki Concert Hall as another public service and the ability to place a civil servant is completely unreasonable. It shall in no case serve to implement the objectives of the Agency. It is "photographic" and once again you only do what you know, to promote provisions that consistently build a customer state, to make it easier for people to dismantle everything still standing in the area of culture. And we will be in all these things toward you! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u319	Thank you. Ms Maria Triantafyllou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wish every success to all the children who started today and who have already written their first lesson in the pan-Hellenic exams. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should begin to take care of what we say, because I see places where there are jumps in the blank or in any case two metres and two weights. A new colleague from the New Democracy said before that the matching of the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn is too much. Of course, we shouldn't do it. I agree, and I say it very clearly. But equally is the SYRIZA and Golden Dawn match. So if anyone doesn't applaud one, they shouldn't do the other. For FYROM, because it is a favourite issue, we said it yesterday, national issues must be opened up, but not in this way - it will be judged who will prefer the best geopolitical option for the country. There are real circumstances, but there are agreements, there are agreements, there are positions, there are practical ones, but unfortunately there are many people who do not know the historical material, and that is a problem. You're talking about the story, ignoring it or wanting to ignore it. Let's say, he has his honor today, Mr. Javaras, who had done a placement the other day that we had the bill on marine spatial planning when I had come down from the Step, falsifying what I said. That is to say, it has misunderstood the condition I used to operate the TWGs by saying that there was an agreement between farmers and a state - and so it was - farmers in self-management, the state to strengthen structures - precisely because I used the term agricultural and rural movement. From a great care to defend your long-term initiatives of exodus, the term agricultural movement has disturbed him. I didn't say there was a new Killere and a result of the new Killere was the creation of the TWGs. I barely did. So there is a deliberate falsification and he tried not only to alter the content of my position, but he thought he could abolish class struggle in two seconds. That's not how class struggle is abolished. He's an international anyway. You also talked a lot about different concepts. We'll take them one in all the time we've got. Let's talk about the evaluation. I shall refer again to my dear colleague, Mr Javarra, who is not here. I really wonder: The word 'assessment' was unknown when it voted 'Athena Plan' and when it collapsed, say, the TEI of my country, Messology, which was very high in international evaluation? Let's not talk about procedures, how the TEI went from one city to another. It's a well-known customer relationship. But then, I wonder, the word of assessment didn't exist in the vocabulary? Suddenly, does he show up today? We have no allergy in evaluation. As it turns out from your experiences, you probably have an allergy to the word evaluation. Let's go a little further. Indeed, many concepts have been heard: a customer system, again and again, excellence, merit, etc. As I said, there are realities and I think that if we talk easily, without knowing the past, we have a huge problem about what we will do in the future. You are talking about a complete catastrophe, when all of us have to ask ourselves, not only the Civic Opposition that has been running for so many years, because the multiple reforms have not succeeded, because there are so many problems in education. I think that the debate, the dialogue that needs to be opened for education is through this and only through it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I still need two minutes and thank you, Mr President. So, starting from the fact that education is qualitatively better as a product of collective vision and collective action and, of course, based on new conditions, new needs, we are legislating to move from one-faced to collective educational structures. A great deal has been said about the bill. But I want to stand on an article - and only on that, because I do not have time to do anything else - in Article 95 on the secondments of teachers abroad. We must say that Greek-language education abroad for the Greeks of the diaspora may be more than a hundred years old and of course there are different forms depending on the time. It would be unfair - and I will not do so - not to highlight the time-consuming presence and offer of the Greek state despite the pathogens, despite the customer relations which, unfortunately, also developed there, despite the colonisation which unfortunately follows every activity of the Greek state. Of course, I could mention many examples, such as an explosion of posted teachers from 2007 to 2009 and not only in Europe, an inconsistency that was then in what was done with the student population. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a minute if you could. Thank you. There have been times when money has been spent without satisfactory results, with poor results, and there are requests, in fact, now, in the new circumstances. There are, therefore, essential requests for administrative restructuring, which we need to see. So we need a plan, and I think that also with the State Secretary dealing with the issues of dispersal education, data recording, the mapping of the school population that has been done to a large extent, rational management above all personnel, I think it will help us. I would therefore like to dwell on Article 95 by saying that this is the right direction. I have an observation. It says in paragraph b: “Teachers who in the school year 2017-2018 were seconded and lost their organic position may apply – a statement of their placement at school up to 31-8-2018. Where the organic position has been covered, the seconded teacher shall remain at the disposal of the relevant director.’
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u321	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u322	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Could we - I do not know if you think it necessary - precisely because if they do not do this, their organic position is lost, so that they do not lose? Finally, I would like to say that I think it is very important that, through this bill, there is a comparison of it before and after. The disappearance of schools, the reduction of costs, the availability that existed before, the gradual shrinking of public education have a confrontation that says that we are strengthening public education, we have the books and the teachers on time, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u323	Please, Mrs. Triantafyl.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u324	I shall conclude, Mr President. The educational policy of each of us is judged by the fundamental freedom to legislate and by the objectives of the government. We do not have them as we wish, but I will say that what I hope is both in the government's efforts and in the fact that the teachers above all are sure that they are fighters and not employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Nikos Friends, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for three years we have tried to raise the public school within the framework of the Memorandum of Industries and have managed to operate all schools normally since the first day in the school period 2016-2017. Was that great? If anyone thinks about what was happening in the past few years - and in the period of crisis, but also earlier - they will know - and teachers know it - that there was not this elementary function since the first day of education. It was therefore a preamble to the normality in which our country enters - gradually and peculiar, it is true - at this time. We are credited by the educational world that is aware of the effort, and this creates a greater obligation for us today, in the government, in our party, in SYRIZA. From the school of crisis we go to the development school. And now it is not a question of managing educational problems well, but of reform, of the deepest possible consensus - school reforms, of an open, democratic school, of innovation-friendly and experiential education, of the interests of young people - which are the interests of the future - but with recognition of the social role of teachers, of those that the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have faced with. We are abolishing the punishing assessment that has caused great inconvenience - and rightly so - in schools and establishing within a climate of democracy and solidarity the collective evaluation of school work, with emphasis on the functioning of the teachers' club. We've heard a lot about evaluation. For the economy of the debate to accept that we need to discuss the question of evaluation, but that has two conditions. The first is a programme of continuing education for teachers. Because of the crisis and audacity we spend the money from the NSRF, which is for the training of teachers, to recruit alternates. Second condition for evaluation is a programme of mass appointments as a priority in special education, where the government has done much and has to do even more. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] What to assess in a school, when twenty-five thousand teachers - in a total of fifty thousand - are not themselves each year and therefore the population of teachers is constantly changing? How can you assess, when there is no training, so that you can assess the educational capacity of these people? Evaluation within a framework of educational equality, because we want a school of quality and equality, not multi-speed schools with managers, we want teachers to lead schools. We don't want anachronistic neoliberal stereotypes. We want all schools to be excellent and not class qualification schools, differentiated among themselves, schools in which we do not have a element of equality towards citizens and young people, but we will have competition between 'bad' and 'bad' schools, as is the case, unfortunately in European countries, for example in the UK. We do want the current centralised model of education to be decentralised, to have educational autonomy, but this will be in a framework of educational priorities that the state will shape, in a context which does not create competitively between schools, namely interdependent schools, which eliminates one another. We have heard various arguments, for example that we are party to education. This is a short joke, that SYRIZA of three years is part of education. They know what a party is, and they know that even the choices we made for school managers were made at the beginning, as you recall, with the system of voting for all teachers. What partying? The choices we made for the training directors were made with respect for the existing ones. Even half of them didn't change from old. We made a remarkable choice. I would just like to stress the following: we really need to tackle the phenomenon of communism throughout the public and particularly in the sensitive area of education. Other politicization and other partyization. The State, the government in question, exercises its own policies. It should not be a political party identified by extermination of opponents. You must have consents. No objections. But politics, you do. There is no depopulation of public administration. Dismantling must exist. And this story of the ASAP, which we all respect, cannot be said to be a solution to all sorts of diseases. The AACC shall supervise a process. It cannot be able to choose people for very specific positions in the public administration. It is clear that these procedures must be done with respect for democracy, but they cannot be interpreted as meaningless.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Philly, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u328	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm sorry. The bill provides for some organisational arrangements aimed at changing school. I don't want to go to the nominations that we're removing school advisors. The creation of collective structures of educational guidance and support is an old demand from the educational area of OMETE. I think it's a mistake to talk about taxation. We will see how the personal responsibility of the staff members will be shared within a concept of collective operation of these structures. The operation will prove the difficulties possible, but also the great potential. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is in a dislocation. Tomorrow in the House we will discuss the conditions of exit from the loan contract. We're not extinguished. We know the problems, but we know that the scope for policy in conditions of greater national sovereignty is also increasing in the field of education. The area of education must be said to be an area that forms the hard core of the nation - state, and therefore the European Union has left room for autonomy in this matter. But we are on a metachim and another very important issue: the Macedonian. Its resolution marks a new international role in the country, an intervention to ensure that our country is a factor of stability and peace in the region. The Macedonian solution gives new meaning to the country's democratic patriotism, in a world that scans it with nationalist and imperialist interventions. I believe that school, which is an institution of democratic, peaceful values, should - and this should be taken seriously into account not only by the government but also by all the political parties - play a leading role in this new effort for the country's new international role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u329	Mrs Jufi has asked for the floor for a minute for some clarification. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u330	I have one clarification and one comment. The first relates to Article 95 to which Mrs Triantafyllou referred. This article ensures the reintroduction of the organic position for posted teachers abroad. It's a stimulus topic. As is apparent from the article, they can hold their organic position and, furthermore, - because you referred to the servants of 2017-2018 who lose their organic position - enables them to return to their address as overnumbers. This is something we could do at this stage, because the process of putting them in personal positions does not exist in the process of education. On the other hand, we should make new organic positions, but that is another subject and can be raised in the context of the overall planning. The second thing I want to say is a comment on this story about the 'trialisation' of education structures in the CEDEFOPs. Look, there's an absurdity here. What do we say? That there will no longer be any child psychiatrist positions in the NSAs. This is the view of the Hellenic Paedophiliac Society. It is enough for the psychologist, who then has the possibility of referral. So where does it turn out that we medicalize structures and lose their educational character? Because it's called and it's called all the time here in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, can I have the floor for a moment for a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u333	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u334	For the seconded persons of 2017-2018 what will happen? Why does the same thing not apply to those who are to be seconded in 2018-2019? I want a clarification about that, because you said it, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u335	I'll answer you. There have been transfers and their organic positions have been taken, so we cannot take care of them and find this solution, which is transitional. I said that the problem is not entirely solved, but it is a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u336	Good. Mrs Kefalidou has the floor from the Democratic Partnership.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President, with a little tolerance, I hope. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in a country where young people have not left or are unemployed or working on a fee of around EUR 380 and a dynamic company, renowned in the field of innovation and technology, seeks to recruit young scientists and indeed with paid above the average market, it is worth wondering how these ads remain unanswered. I'm in trouble. I read it online recently. Instead of worrying about what pan-Hellenics are starting today, where, to be honest, they are examined out of an outdated type of children's readout, as exhausted by the costs of care and particular parents, for a place in a school that is not most of their personal choice, but the criterion will be the closest, so that we here do not create costs, as a matter of urgency, with the bill: "Deorganisation of support structures for primary and secondary education and many other provisions". You Government, of course, baptized it'reorganization', avoiding the words that describe it, which are shrinking, demolition, dismantling. So what is the reason why today's draft law is being voted on? You say in the recital that it comes to address the negative effects caused by rapid developments in the centres for organising individual and social life and so on. Anybody know what he wants to say about those nice words in the ministry? Let me tell you. It says that the government has to deal with its own failures, the overthrow of our lives, particularly our children, namely, unemployment, poverty, misery, the uprooting of their homes, which it itself created with its unexplained policies. Is he doing it? No, of course not. That's not the purpose. It's none of her business. Its existential goal is to find the country in a constant turmoil and oversimplification until final fall and whoever bears. Because there's no time, I'm pouring out the most erections. Regional Education Managers: you tell us that transparency, dignity, objective criteria characterise the selection of managers and, in particular, of regional managers. I would remind you that the choices of regional directors in 2015, with a SYRIZA - ANEL government, were made on the sole basis of their trade union activity. No one has scientific qualifications. What's he gonna do with it anyway? The standard is ‘Caranish’. Therefore, because of your own Memorandum of Obligation you are forced with a heavy heart - I admit - to vote for a selection of regional directors by a selection board with a president of the AACC. What you are not saying, however, is that today's party trade unionists who became regional managers without any additional academic qualifications will choose the training officials, that is, they will assess them, but they will not be evaluated themselves. This assessment will be carried out in three years. Just look at the transitional provisions, Article 36(1): the AACC does not touch them. The hard work will be done by the next one, and you in your ladders in the Constitution will play it again antimony and indignant. Eventually you look too forward, it's true! As far as school advisors are concerned, Minister, the outsides are talking about saving money and cutting costs, but they do not have the school advisors in mind. They're taking care of it. But your government shepherds the island. You remove an institution that has operated per education department by supporting schools and introducing guidance from a distance. I mean, he was running around. Instead of seeking to upgrade the most serious work they are doing, you dismantle them and create the PCIs and the coordinators in their place, and as far as I can tell you, they will only be able to do the carrots of documents coming. The last thing that concerns you is the support of academic work, the student, his family. On the contrary, you have found an easy target, to present a allegedly cutback in expenditure to the outsides and at the same time to check a sector that you wanted to punish anyway because it operated institutionally and independently. Two birds with one stone. Your political plan was clear: School advisors had to finish and that is why you devised a precursor system, with cuts everywhere, no one escaped. It's not like she stung you a fly. They're just bothering. And they're very disturbing, because they have academic qualifications. They've been assessed and you're afraid of that. Without them, the road opens for other control, dependants, consumables, and without communication and supervision in schools, 'administrative administration' can have a role. As far as special treatment is concerned, remove the EDPS and replace them with the ERCMs. Of course, the C.S.S.S.C.S. will be invited to do everything, everything. With what reason do you think that if you stack the chaos under a new name, this will disappear as magically? Do you really believe that? I think not. Planning doesn't exist. Everyone has told you, institutions, parties. In vain trouble! You, rigid, 'green', insist. You are proposing a structure, ignoring completely the ones involved and who will be subjected to it tomorrow. Eventually, the glove is a turbulent. You're the ones who are well-meaning. As far as the evaluation is concerned, you answer the very simple question: do you want it? If the answer is 'yes', then things are simple. You start it from the top down, no asterisks or gray belts. Things are difficult when the answer is 'no' and 'no' must be 'yes'. And that's where the alchemys begin: Will the terms be counted? Will the questionnaires be anonymous? The molecules in doctoral and higher qualifications that we want to check out what it should be like? How are we going to grant the teaching experience in the 'new-spirit' class without any training? It's hard to do the work! Your agony has also been recorded in the wording of the layout. Everyone in the debate pointed it out, but you have passed it with grace. In this bill, the Gabroglou methodology - not to mention them again, urgently, with a nightly deposit, preferably Friday, unexpectedly, with paradoxical articles, without public consultation, the extra that starts from fifty and reached twenty-one and a half, and "Lord here we will get", with the amendments, without taking into account anyone, relying only on the arrogance of numbers, "Let everyone be beaten, in any case there are fifty-four and so there are still fifty-four. You said that you were surprised by their rejection attitude of institutions and parties. Really, I ask: What were you waiting for? We again, Minister, are no longer surprised by you. We taught you. Announcements, drum impacts, nice words for bills that dismantle what is there, to make in place what the Prime Minister and all of you call "the new", "the new" and you mean "the nothing", the mess, the demolition, the demolition. Your bill makes all this perfect.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u338	Mrs. Kefalidou, please, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u339	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. Since this bill is about education and you yourself are a university teacher, you know better than anyone that in one class all the teachers, when they say they don't see the teacher, that doesn't mean they're a brick. Another doesn't do his job right. When, in fact, he refuses to admit it, he has completely replaced his logic or purpose, not the transmission of knowledge, but the brainwashing to achieve the permanent silence of lambs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u340	Mr Georgadas has the floor from New Democracy. He's the last of the list speakers. Then we will begin the process of the seconds of the special speakers and the rapporteurs and the Minister will close. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to try to look into the reasons why the bill comes under the urgency procedure. As much as I have tried, I have not been able to see the reasons. But, considering that it was a bill that appeared in March with fifty a articles in consultation, and suddenly two days ago these became a hundred thirteen, it finally sees a bill in instalments. I hope it's not in doses and the solution for the Skopje you're working on. I shall refer to a few things, because I think most of them have already been said and degraded by the reasoning, but also by the reality of the provisions of this bill. A very central point for me is the question of evaluation, an assessment that no longer comes to legislate on a white paper, but on a legislative and administrative course of about three and a half years, in which you have created the conditions and conditions, so that now that the cycle of this government is completed and in education, as in other areas of public administration, you can come and try to lay those foundations for a genuine and substantial partisanisation of all directors. I really want an answer to the very simple question: is it possible to invoke a fair and effective assessment, when we start by the evaluators, who are appointed by you, who are not evaluated? And instead of starting from them, the evaluation of the "evaluators", and going to the lowest grades, you keep those who have never been evaluated by anyone, even excluded from the previous evaluation with your own cyber, called "employers", and these post-employers are the ones who will come to evaluate all existing downwards. You are not starting with the evaluation of the assessors. This is a solid request which is made by all civil servants and I think it is reasonable. It is what was the main cause for which AEDN did not participate in the assessment carried out in the rest of the State. Of course, you will allow me to say, because no one legislates only one ministry, is the overall picture that the government wants to pass, on the assessment that Mrs Gerovali has allegedly carried out and which was completed in October. To date, he has not given us any answers about how many civil servants have been evaluated. We haven't got the number for eight months. Let me say the most important thing to everyone about me. On the basis of the SYRIZA legislation on evaluation, L.4369/2016, there was a prediction that civil servants rated below sixty points will be considered to be insufficient and should be assisted in their work by written reports by the heads and by monitoring this improvement in their performance. Until today for the 2016 assessment, and while it was completed eight months ago, he did not come to tell us how many under sixty were evaluated, that is to say, how many civil servants should finally have this assistance in their work, this improvement in their performance, as you do and say it all the time. And now you come here to do something even better. Remove the evaluation on many levels and where there is an evaluation made by a non-hidden evaluator. Of course, I should also like to repeat what has been said and I think it needs a reply. Institutions, which have been established in the consciousness of the educational world and in the consciousness of society that they acted positively, come and are abolished without a justification in this regard. Institutions, such as school advisors, are coming and being abolished and not just. Many of these structures are undernourished by structures which you are alleged to be structures which, in a more democratic way, will help to develop education. But I hear all this as words. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. A specific reasoning, concrete examples and arguments to convince me of the need to abolish these institutions and their substitution by something else does not exist. It is tragic that three and a half years later in the field of education, the most important one I consider to be for all of us, you are experimenting not just in fields that you do not know and you are trying to discover, but you are experimenting with the aim of singing the educational system, its administration, for your own political purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr Georgioda, for completing the list of speakers. We're going through the second grades of the rapporteurs and special speakers. Here, Mr. Michalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. I think the excesses have surpassed, normal phenomenon. But the mistakes have also been made. I justify that because many of our colleagues are not teachers, they do not have similar experiences, they cannot know in detail what happened. Let's start in turn. First exaggeration: partitioning everything. ‘You're trying to party.’ Ladies and gentlemen, in my prototype with very careful words and mild tones I mentioned that the first judgments of directors on term, when the old classic model was abolished, were made in 1986. Then I happened to be a member of the board of directors and participated. The criteria were the view of the members of the Board. Three officials appointed, two elected. We used to say what we wanted and choose whoever the majority wanted. We went after the next crises, where did they happen? Not when the four-year term of office of directors expired, but when the government changed and changed the law, first Article: "The previous ones are removed and I set the conditions for the next". I said this very carefully: in the transition from one system to another, we were gradually moving towards improvements. The improvements were of this type: Qualifications mobilization and interview introduction. So the first interview they had - because I have had five assessments, the first unsuccessfully, the other four successes - had a maximum of the interview '20'. And they could get over the twenty molecules firmly those we had - because I was one of them - doctors and a lot of other qualifications. The other Members, the average, were in '12' to '14'. Those who know well arithmetic '20' with '12' are in favour of 100%. Because I have heard some colleagues today say that the interview is 60%, 80%, so much. Second excess: 'We remove structures and executives'. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not abolish, rename and continue on the same footing. Let me tell you the main difference between school advisors and advisors, as they are now saying: School advisors have the seat of the region, but unfortunately - I said it very much in the Committee on Formatography - no one could control where they were present. They were at their freedom to go to any school they wanted and to report to the head of the school counsellors they went to and how. Repeatedly, various governments tried to control them and reacted. I was in training, and I know very well what's going on. What happens now? They, not with the same tasks, by multiple means, because they do not let them at least in secondary schools have their own specialty and control specialists, but they add to control all the functioning of the respective structures we mentioned - health education, environmental education, etc. - broken down in schools, plan, control and report and have a day-to-day presence in their homes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Prestige councils: Look, the first councils - the Minister said and covered me - he was a university or two of the Minister's choice. I never remember a contract notice. He was a representative of the Ministry, I assume, a senior executive, two elected representatives. I'm going to stand on this. It does not matter how they are chosen as much as it is for me if the elected representatives of the workers are to be involved. Don't go back from this. Select prestige executives, select executives by procedures. I'll go to the review, and I'll close. There is a long story in Greece. The results of the civil war - says Constantine Tsukalas, the well-known sociologist - ended in our country in '74. The results of the hard evaluation after the civil war typically ended in '82. I submit my documentary book, which has all the elements of evaluation reports by '82, to see why the echo of terrorism that was imposed at the time is still afraid today. No one says 'no assessment'. The issue is who assesses, evaluates, evaluates and why it assesses. If we solve this, we can go to an assessment that is convincing and the first step the government is now doing. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Michelis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned book, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u344	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Andrianos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate, but also the debate which took place in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, has shown in the clearest way a profound and fundamental difference, a different section that has to do, not only with the issues of education, but also with the way in which the political forces perceive the public interest and the duty to serve it in practice and, of course, through this school of tomorrow, the future, the modern school. Today we have discussed a draft law which does not aim to strengthen the quality of education, nor to improve the structures of the education administration. Instead, the service of party audiences is targeted, through ideological predictions and photographic provisions, even in amendments tabled by colleagues. Such an amendment is the amendment to the organization of the Concert Hall of Music in Thessaloniki, which Mrs Kefaliannis referred to a moment ago, which photographically provides for covering the position of the Director-General, while it is known that the organization of the Grand Music of Thessaloniki is a historic cultural centre of northern Greece, hosts important artistic events, has specific public interest events and the general manager of such an organisation with huge administrative, organisational and financial requirements, obviously has high expertise, knowledge of the market in question, high administrative capacities and be able to form development tactics. Obviously, this amendment is photographic and, as Mrs Kefaliannis said, we will vote against it. The worst of all is that you're trying to give up an ideological cloak. For example, we have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur at the forefront of paralleling his government's policies with the enlightenment and abolition of the evaluation of teachers by the conquest of the introduction of women into universities. So we heard the Minister talk about great streams of history and tell us that society may not be interested in partitioning. We have heard the Minister say above - below - that if we distinguish fields that need to be improved in the existing system, we should vote in favour of this bill, just because it brings changes. Improvement doesn't help you, though. Students and families know very well what it means in practice not to evaluate teachers. And Mr Colleague, of course, this assessment was obviously not an evaluation you say, but it is a past. But what needs to be done is an assessment of the future school, and if there is indeed the assessment that needs to be carried out within a strict framework, which will ensure transparency and dignity, I think no one will object. So the whole society understands what the real reason for replacing school advisors from the new body is, from which you exclude them. No one is convinced with references to neoliberalism and other mythical monsters. No one is convinced when you say again in the logic of 'alternative data' that the autonomy of the school unit, which is a key axis of the New Democracy's proposal, is only about the management of resources, as the rapporteur has said to us. As much as you do not care about the truth, our proposal is clear and cannot be distorted. We support the essential autonomy of school units, we support the objective and unbiased non-violent evaluation in every field of public life and, of course, as far as teachers are concerned. Because you have also raised a number of questions, Minister, as to whether we will abolish the law establishing the University of Western Attica, apprenticeship and other such matters, firstly, I would remind you that we have voted many times for what we consider to be positive from these provisions. We will therefore abolish, as a matter of priority, all your proven disastrous interventions which do not serve these specific axes I have said, supporting objectively and improperly criteria for the selection of management staff by supporting the institutional encouragement of quality in education by exploiting all available tools to that effect. These are the axes of our own proposal that we have tabled clearly, sincerely and honestly. We therefore vote against the bill and commit, as the President of the New Democracy said, to abolish it as soon as the citizens trust us with the country's governance. I shall refer to the amendments for a minute. I referred to one, which we are also voting against. In Amendment No 1613 and in Amendment No 170, on the co-service of military training spouses, we fully agree with and of course vote on it. I would also like to say this: the amendment from the Ministry of the Interior has come. The Minister presented it, too. But it has five articles and five different topics. It is therefore appropriate that the amendments should not be accepted in this form, when there are different items and different issues. We may want to vote for one, two, three points in the amendment and commit us to a single amendment. So it's good when it's heterosexual and different themes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u346	They've become special articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u347	Good, because what has been filed is uniform. Okay. That makes it easier for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u348	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-five students and students and six teachers from the 37th Municipal School of Heraklion. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have also made myself clear in my prology on the issues of self-assessment, the President-in-Office of the Council, the redundancies, the two-year compulsory pre-school education. With the same purity, we tell you that no one in this Chamber is legitimate to identify us with the Civic Opposition. Each party has its own history, its own presence, its own course. General Ministers, the work of the PASOK Governments for education and education is historical, is identical to open and democratic school, the scientific and professional upgrading of education, the protection of university asylum and the free movement of ideas within them. For Democratic Partnership education is a public asset, and students are investing in the future, which is why they deserve equal opportunities in education, regardless of economic and social origin. We, Ministers, supported diversity in school, religion, colour, place of origin. We created intercultural schools. We have succeeded in integrating the diversity of our students with a respect and a pedagogical approach. We supported the self-taught and self-powered school unit, with the democratic operation of the school club and the school advisors, with the school counsellor and support on a daily basis, in each school unit. We have clear positions and even clearer proposals. Of course, with a progressive figure, the Democratic Reconciliation believes in the need for dialogue, it believes in the need for consultation. With our participation and presence in the Committee on Education, we have raised issues, we have tabled proposals, we have tabled amendments which, in cases where you have accepted them in the past, have substantially improved the bills. Let me remind you, the previous law on the choices of executives, the Islamic mosque, Sharia and the appointment of Mufti, the education of Greek children abroad, the bill on innovation and research. This draft law, Minister, has unfortunately surprised us about the process and the substance. I would urge you to see the operators' positions in the Committee on Formats as a whole, I would say, which highlight the urgency and distortions of the articles. Inevitably, from the outset, we have said that we are voting against the bill, since you do not withdraw the provisions out of consultation, which, of course, you did not accept, and we voted against it. But we have set the red lines that are a common position for us as expressed earlier than this step by our President, Mr. Fofi Gennimatas, such as: Sitting selection of managers, therefore, prestige councils with the participation of the AACC and the EMCDDA, structured interview. It is a good thing, of course, that you have accepted the recording. You have acted and the topics bank to measure the teaching service for all officials with a term of office and transition to the mandate that you have accepted and you have come today with Legislative Entities. As regards the amendments you have tabled, I would like to say: For arrangements for the designation of school buildings. We must, Minister, ensure that they are financed. For Thessaloniki Concert Hall. There has already been, Minister, an open selection procedure for the Director-General since 18 January by means of a notice. We cannot intervene legislatively and retrospectively in this process. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making an appeal in every direction. This procedure should be the last in the urgency procedure. Minister, the problems of education are urgent, but the parliamentary procedure is not. It takes time and consultation. As far as teachers are concerned, Mrs Jufi, foreigners are concerned, it is a solution that you have given. In closing, let me wish all the students and students who participate in the pan-Hellenic exams a good success, in teachers and parents good strength and good power in their difficult work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u350	Minister, have you asked for the floor for a minute for some legislators?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, about a piece of legislation that made a grammar mistake. It's completely technical, and I'm filing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u352	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Gregos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. To wish good strength to both children and parents. It is an ongoing struggle, so they must think and so do. I shall refer to the amendments. We have said in Amendment 1614/171 that it is a photographic amendment, that it concerns the possibility of the Director-General of the Organisation of the Athens Concert Hall by officials and officials from bodies of the general government and the wider public sector. It's photographic with party criteria. We are of course voting against it. We will vote in favour of Amendment No 1613/170 on the co-service of military training spouses. Of course, this measure used to be true, it's just gone. In Amendment No 1608, Articles 11 and 14 and paragraphs 2 and 13 of No 1077/1980 are changed. The working time of the administrative staff in the tourism sector shall be specified in eight months. There is a positive reference to the amendment, as there are development prospects in the national economy and tourism. We shall vote against Amendment No 1615. Of course, here is a slogan of various articles. You said there would be separate articles when the body of the bill comes. In the case of a lack of regular staff in the definition of schools, provision is made for the possibility of concluding project leasing contracts with a duration of two teaching years 2018 to 2019 and 2019 to 2020 instead of one which is valid until now. It shall be increased by one month or a maximum of the duration of the work contracts by the ATO personnel for their fire safety and navigation coverage. That's positive. It shall be extended by five months until 31 December 2018 to present the required certificate of fire safety to children, infants and nursery stations of the municipalities for the granting of their relevant authorisation. Where the certificate is not presented to the above deadline, the period granted shall be withdrawn. Finally, a specific procedure is provided for in this amendment to regulate newly created municipal port funds assets to deal with procedural issues arising after the transfer of powers from the public port funds. This is where we are dealing in a strange way with unrelated and incoherent issues, as I have said before. On the one hand, we would say this in the right direction, but they are still a rough solution. On the other hand, a Holocaust museum is being established in Thessaloniki. In particular, the Municipality of Thessaloniki is able to participate in the establishment of a non-profit association that will undertake the implementation of the Holocaust Museum of Thessaloniki. The question, therefore, of the uprooting of a museum of Holocaust, has nothing to do with the issues raised and is a clear demonstration of the concrete and organized tactics of the rulers and the various political paratroopers to degrade the Greek national memory and replace it with different contents, which do not concern the Greek people. Of course, we are against the conversion of Thessaloniki into a multicultural city - an abortion at the very time when Greek monuments are devalued, Greek tradition is damaged and historical memory is systematically undermined by well-known governmental circles. The question of the building up of the Holocaust Museum absorbs all the interest in this amendment and overshadows the other issues. Of course, we will vote against it. We shall vote against Amendment No 1616. In essence, pedagogical competence is removed from the basic degree and serves an additional advantage to be gained by students after attending courses. An important amendment concerning the provision of pedagogical competence. In other words, competence is certified by a certificate awarded, which is distinct from the first-cycle degree even if the courses concerned are incorporated in the first-cycle course. Instead of abducting the Diamantopoulou law, to which it is allegedly contrary, the rulings and denounce in essence, they also offer another corporation with this amendment. We say 'no' to her too. We insist once again that we demand national education, as is appropriate to Greek parents and Greeks in a critical period both in terms of education, but above all in terms of national issues. We are voting against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u354	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party, Mr Syntrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole debate, in our opinion, was revealing what both the government and the New Democracy, PASOK, and the parties that have a strategic equivalent, on the issues of education and education. There is a strategic symposium of these parties, on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union, the OECD directives, the Greek Industrial Association, on the full subjection of two important production powers, knowledge and human factors, the labour force, namely, the needs of capital, competitiveness, market flexibility. All this requires the construction of a flexible, categorised school, the decentralised and self-decentralised school, as Mr Friend told us, as the New Democracy tells us. The decentralisation, however, and the autonomy of the new school are the directions of the imperialist organization called OECD. And, of course, the basic instrument for serving such a school is the establishment of these structures, as well as the self-assessment, which will serve the goal of producing cheap, flexible labour, with teachers fully attached to this objective. The New Democracy's basic argument all these days is that the government is against the assessment. Not only is the New Democracy wrong to oppose the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in this way, but we are consciously seeking confrontation, which also suits the government itself, to move into the dilemma of assessment or valuation, and in fact both are serving the same thing. Why don't you tell me that the so-called evaluation of the teaching work will not be carried out on the basis of the thematic axes, by special formula, by ministerial decision and by the direct involvement of directors of the schools and of the executives of the PES, i.e. perfectly measurable indicators and always by the government's vigilance. These valuation reports will be communicated to the relevant CRP. They won't just stay in a school manager's drawer. They will, in other words, be a measurable indicator of school categorisation and a means of intimidation. What, that is, was called upon to do with Arvanitopoulos' self-assessment. So what we said goes up to antenna. The abolition of Presidential Decree 152 is an empty letter. There's no contradiction. But let me say about two key aspects that are dealt with in the draft law. It is about Sustainable Education Centres, as a development in the Centre for Environmental Education, which incorporate the responsibilities of environmental education, health education, cultural issues and cultural activities, and the financing of CRLs will be carried out by the municipalities. The main objective, therefore, of the CRLs will be to promote the integration of all school activities aimed at pupils of all classes so that they can intervene more organisedly and systematically in the consciences of the new generation on a number of crucial issues. They will also hamper the emergence of issues by teachers who go against the European Union's sovereign values. As for the so-called school groups, we consider that it is not such an innocent institution. In practice, they will act as an informal educational structure, through representation procedures and joint operation frameworks. In our view, the integration of functions is promoted, with the aim of covering gaps in teachers, teachers and infrastructures, the mobility of pupils and greater staff savings, the creation of multitude departments. Allow me a little more time, Mr President, to place myself on the amendments. For the amendment on teaching competence, we are already in place. We have revealed that it essentially strengthens the relevant provision of the Diamantopoulou Act, by subtracting pedagogical competence from the degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u356	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u357	That is our view. Some improved legal regulations may have been made, but they do not in fact change the objective that this amendment comes to serve. That is why, of course, we are opposed. In relation to tourism education, let us say that this is, in fact, a phony training very far from the needs of workers in the industry. And the state does not mean to upgrade the education and training of these workers, as the JRC has repeatedly called for. However, since we do not want to stand in the way of these workers' attempts to evolve and upgrade professionally, we will not say 'no' to this amendment. We shall say 'the present'. For school cleaners, the amendment merely extends their hostage by one year and their contracts by two years. We are all asking, but all today's cleaners' contracts and not just to be transformed into an indefinite period of time and not just to get nothing fired, but to be extra recruitment, because the needs of the schools are too great. We are voting 'at present'. Finally, we agree with the amendment concerning the Holocaust Museum in Thessaloniki. And we have also told the municipal council of Thessaloniki with Mr. Delis, who is also a municipal councillor of the Municipality of Thessaloniki. Of course, we think that crimes of Nazism should not be forgotten, condemned forever and that young people should learn their horrors. Of course we condemn the anti-Semitism sowed by fascism. However, the amendment also has other implications. The Holocaust Museum in Thessaloniki will be built and operated by an international non-profit organisation based in Belgium. And apart from the main purpose above it will have, it will have extra purposes. What are these extra purposes? In what ways will he serve them? How will they be financed? And who will participate in this international union, except for the Municipality of Thessaloniki, and why does this Holocaust Museum not function like all the museums in the country under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture? None of these questions are answered by the amendment. However, we cannot give anyone a white cheque on such important issues, and that is why we are voting 'the present'. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u358	The reason for this is the special speaker of ANEL Mr Katsikis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u359	I am not going to answer that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u360	The special speaker from the river Mr Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor for dentistry more to respond to some of the things that the Minister said in his speech. He said we're not making any suggestions. We always make proposals in an institutional way when you ask us to do so. In 2016, we made proposals to the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs on the conclusion of Mr Liakou's Dialogue Committee. I don't know, if you remember, Minister. You were the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media at the time. In fact, I am tabling the proposals we have made at the time for education. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We sent you proposals this year, when you asked for it by letter for the student's transfer. I do not know if any other party has made proposals, Minister. And the truth is, we're anxiously waiting for this conversation that you promised us about the student's relocations. Please take these Minutes and suggestions. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even now in these very narrow margins we had to talk about education structures - Friday night he came to the House and on Monday we started the debate in the Committee on Educational Affairs - and we tried to get a constructive contribution here too. We have tabled some proposals on the mobilisation of executives. It should be in some basket around here. You have not used any of these, not even one proposal. It's okay. Take for the Minutes and our current, yesterday's proposals. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Stenography and Practice.]] And then you abdicate us that we don't make proposals when you were opposition, they waited outside all the trucks with your suggestions to submit them to the then government. Ideally, then, Slowly! We have always been present in the institutions. In corridors, however, we are absent. If the procedures were not urgent, as we denounced at the outset, it would take a week, so that what we said could somehow be discussed, exchange views, optimise the bill as far as possible. You didn't bring it under normal procedures, it came up like an emergency. You'll see that in some space, in a month, in two months, in three months, we'll come here and vote for some changes in a hasty bill. And one question: The dismantling of education, for which you are so now getting it, why didn't you think about it in 2015, in 2016, in 2017 and you thought about it now, in the last year of your term of office? Sooner or later, should we legislate now and implement the next one? To convince us - I told you this - that you do want the colonization, start the top-down choices, from the regional directors and then from the other executives and not your convicts to preside over the Selection Councils. You didn't. You have made some other minor changes. You will tell me: 'Why are you so suspicious of the partisan rule?' How can we not be when the notices of the administrative secretaries were tailored to the qualifications of your chosen ones, and were you basically caught with the riddle on the back by the institutions? Of course, but on the basis of KODAK criteria or ZENIT, where was the eastern camera? He wondered whether there would be cancellations of his emblematic legislative initiatives from the next government. Why does it look strange to him? Let me remind you what SYRIZA did to education just took over. He canceled the Foundation councils, canceled the Topic Bank, standards experimental and other previous initiatives not just a few. So it's the first you taught, so don't make him surprised. Within this framework of polarisation, which is cultivated by the New Democracy and SYRIZA, we will listen to this all the time. And to close, Mr President, with something I have heard Mr Baxvanakis say and repeat it in the committees and here. The school club should be the dominant body, problems solved there. Yes, I agree, the autonomy of the school unit is what is being asked. But autonomy goes hand in hand - with responsibility. Will the teachers' association not be accounted for anywhere? Is the manager going to be decorative? Systems without control, transparency and accountability are vulnerable to degradation. We do not want the Greek schools to be degraded, as well as the participants to have their intentions. Finally, you have not dared to go too far, i.e. start the evaluation from the top to the bottom. But you are right: the party domination may not start with you, but you continue with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u362	Mr Megloumoustakas, a special speaker of the Centro Association, will be given the floor, and the Minister will be given the floor to close the meeting. Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u363	I want to start with the amendments. I am going to refer to what we are going to vote against. It is, as our Parliamentary representative has said, that of the Ministry of Interior, since we do not in any way agree with the abolition of many responsibilities which the Agency has. The other is this photographic amendment, which concerns the organization of the Athens Concert Hall. From there, I would also like to explain our position. Our position in this bill will be 'at present' because we want to prove by means of acts and by what we are voting on that we see positively a draft law on education and it comes to a vote in plenary. However, he didn't come the way we wanted. There was not enough time for many articles, not everything, to process them and what we had time to process them, they did not come in the way we wanted. Therefore, in the articles of the first and second part of this bill, we have too much 'no', and that is because, as we have said, we do not agree with the abolition, as we believe, of the institution of school advisors, which you say is renamed. That is why you will see that most of the articles are voted against. The same is the case with the second part, where most of the articles are 'urban' of this choice and we cannot be part of it. We shall be voting in favour of the refugee section. In very few articles from this place we will also vote 'no' because there too we see some ambiguities that we have not understood. Besides, time wasn't enough. We shall then proceed to the most positive amendments, as we have said, in addition to what I have just said. "Taken all" by Mr Mavrotas, I would like to say that we, as the Central Association, along with Potami, have the two parties that have the least number of MPs at the moment in Parliament, have submitted proposals in general for the educational system since 2016 for all levels. We contribute with proposals to each committee and to every bill to be voted on, and on Monday we tabled proposals on the acidity of the relocations to clarify our position. So, whenever we were officially asked, we were there to contribute and contribute to such an important struggle, which is to improve our education system. From that point on, since I was in plenary session and then, hearing many colleagues, particularly the MPs, I have had some questions. When we told you that a bill like this shouldn't have come in the way it came, we think we were right, as we saw legislative improvements in fifty-two articles and about every article there are three interventions. We are now talking about over a hundred and fifty legislative improvements to a draft law on education, where there should be a coordinated planning, and we should be dealing with it with one serious thing, not just in five, bringing other legislative improvements. A draft law on education is, I think, the bill that has the most legislative improvements and are, in fact, many of these techniques, i.e. it seems that the necessary attention would not be spent on drafting this text. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to express a question which the ministers would like to answer because I am a little confused by the positions of the Ministers and the rapporteur, Mr Michelis. Are you in favour or against evaluation? Because what I heard was that you are in favour of evaluation, as long as you find the formula that is incompetent and that there will be no intervention by parties. We would like an explanation and I think that we all want to hear clearly whether you are in favour or against evaluation, because the last position has really brought us into confusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u364	With Mr Megloumoustakas' position, the course of the secondary course of the rapporteurs and the special speakers is completed, and the reason why the Minister will now be given the floor to conclude and proceed with the vote. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say about the amendment that there is a misunderstanding. We say it can be placed in the post of Director General of the Grand Music and Public Staff. This also applies to the Athens Concert Hall. We then say after the end of his term of office he can go to the post he left. So he can be a municipal official, he can be a private employee and a civil servant. That's exactly what we're saying. I would really like - and I am not saying it miserably - to congratulate the Opposition on the way in which the speech was structured almost every member. Same words, same phrases, same accusations. He's saying that. They're getting ready somewhere and they're coming. Because there is a very clear framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u366	Or you should be concerned, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u367	Look, what I'm going to tell you is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u368	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u369	What do you say, Minister, that there are some centers behind us that guide us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u370	No centers, you have partners, and you're welcome. Will you let me finish? That's what you know when we test a class with students and you see identical glue. You're saying something shouldn't go well. On the other hand, you're saying, dude, 'cause nobody caught them. Well, I've come up with a terrible impression and a lack of arguments, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u371	I'd like the floor after...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u372	Please. That's not how it works. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u373	I was talking to the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Mavrota, please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u375	But that's not how it works. We're all tired.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u376	We're not gonna let that go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u377	I don't take that as a threat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u378	No, I mean I'll talk later and I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u379	So I say that what I was looking for is the arguments. And the arguments are a certain structure of speech. To say that we are lying, that we are partying, again that we are partying, again that we are lying, and forward - and that we brought it right before midnight, is not an argument. Half of you said we brought it at 10:30 and the other half said we brought it right before midnight. It is a little more dramatic than 'just before midnight'. Listen and don't grab yourself. You may also be helped, as I have helped, to understand that here there is a public word and a rhetoric, which is enriched with various words, categories, adjectives, etc., but has no two things. It has no arguments and no alternatives. Potami in the last two minutes of dentistry said he had proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u380	Minister, from the beginning we have said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u381	The other was, of course, what Mr Javarras said. He said the job in Parliament is to discuss laws. Of course, that goes without saying. On the other hand, however, the proposals must also be an element of public speech. So let's see the structure of these speeches. The first feature is that there was no time to study and prepare etc. Fortunately, Mrs Keramou said that there were seventeen pages at first. What did you want? From the beginning, there are five hundred twenty-one pages? At first, in October, when the conference took place, there were ten seventeen pages, because that was where philosophy, approach and architecture were. This is how the various proposals are being built up. So that there was no time, it was for consumption. He's not really responding. Of course, I heard infinite things, but I did not hear about their schools and their problems. Aren't there any problems in school? Aren't educational problems? Does society not have new realities? Unless you ignore them. I'm sure you don't ignore them, you just don't know how to handle them. The second feature is that we want to build a party state. Look, this is a public charge, because society is soaked up with party things. Indeed, it works in society. But I told you and I told you again, if we wanted to build a party state, we would be foolish not to follow the mentors of that logic. And the mentors of that logic are the Opposition. Why should we get involved and do all this for the party state? Do we not want a party state? Did you think of that at all? Is that too upsetting? Thirdly, we do not want, he says, excellence and dignity. Look, the issue with Presidential Decree 152 is not legal. It's not if a paragraph says you're fired. The issue with 152 is a political one. And in 152 it characterises a literally dark period of Greek history, where the state acted vengefully - not punishing - to public officials. That's 152. That 152 we change, we cancel. This 152 will not exist because this 152 is identified with specific ideology, with specific policy, with specific practices. All of this has resulted in vengeance over public officials. You are not honoured when you say that we are not in favour of dignity, that we are not in favour of excellence, because we are talking with our electorate, namely the follymen, the unworthy, the crooks. That's not what you're honored for. You say we do this to cheer up our electorate. So please show a respect for society, if anything. Of course, the last element of the structure of opposition is that we lie, that we are obsessive, isotopeic, ideoleptic, anti-constitutional and "reverse" and in a different order. That's what I'm not going to answer. I really detest to answer whether we lie or not, or whether we're obsessed or not. Be careful, however, - and this is very important for the Greek people to understand - we are not saying that we are the good ones and everyone else is bad. We say we're different. The different are their contradictions and the'rear', etc., but different. We are different in the construction of the state, different in how we see education, different in how we see teachers. I really think - and I do not want to see that as a category, and I mean it - that you do not understand that. You say 'do all this'. They can't do it so they won't make any scams or bring their own people. You cannot understand that there may be a different political culture. So this is the Left, if you want to know, with its contradictions, with the "rear" as I said, but this is the Left. And that's what you're gonna have to accept. I would like to comment on two three things with the JRC. I understand that there is a political choice here, that everything is projected to be black, that everything is portrayed as a dead end, because this brings a messengerism, where the JRC will one day bring all these good things. Behind this messianism, there's a constant conspiracy, an incredible thing. It's been years, that's not the story. The 152 is empty letter because you do it because there is another scam, so etc. The whole day? But, obviously, it's nothing. Two-year compulsory pre-school education is a firework. Now it really shocked me what you said before about the Holocaust Museum in Thessaloniki. Again a conspiracy, that some people will use it, somehow, will they finance it against our people? But it's the Holocaust museum. With two hands, not one, I invite you to vote on it. You know, collectiveity scares you. Although you say so, collectiveism and interdisciplinaryism frightens you. And you know why it scares you? Because when people discuss collectively and interdisciplinaryly, they may change their minds and that frightens them. That's catastrophic for some people in here. And I'm looking at you, because really through Marxism, we've all learned interdisciplinary and collective. And when we say that clubs in schools are the core, that's exactly what we mean. We don't mean dogmatism. But what we understand is that there is no other philosophy and architecture to address the problems that schools have today. Either we say that the current system is sufficient, or we will say another one that has not been expressed or you will accept what we are proposing. There's no other way. We said that here there is a new society in shape, new problems. We're not saying it's good or bad. It's a problem, though. We can't spend it. The issue of violence, the issue of the addiction of children in mobiles, the new structure of families, the new values in friendships, all these are new problems, which find their expression in school, and we believe that teachers, with all the weaknesses - alas if not there - are those who have the antennas to be able to translate them in a way that can help the school. Of course, the hard stuff comes after. Are we going to talk about pathogens? Are we going to talk about daily things that are constantly bureaucratic? But are we going to talk about the many good things that are going on in schools? Are we going to talk about teachers' pioneering initiatives? Are we going to talk about the sensational theatrical performances of our comments? Are we going to talk about these high-level musical performances? But are we going to talk about the fools? Are we going to talk about the deadlocks many times in the movement itself, precisely because our societies are changing? These are the serious issues. That's what society talks about. That's what parents and their kids talk about every night. We certainly - I tell you - cannot guarantee that what we are proposing will bring about a solution to all the problems. That's for sure. But what we say is this: Are we with teachers for students and students? Are we with the teachers' collectives, whatever weaknesses, for the public school? We think that we are proposing a specific structure that gives such potential. Nothing is certain. The big bet is tomorrow. This great bet will be won with permanent appointments, with a system of recruitment that has a broad consensus, with a national training plan and with a situation in schools where we will all understand that the substance and character of the school is that it confuses society outside the school and is an institution where knowledge is cultivated, but also the socialization of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u383	Mr Colleagues, you are well aware that during the debate on a bill with the last position of the Minister, the process is complete. If, Mr Mavrotas, I give the floor to you who have asked me, Mr Andrianos will also ask for the floor and we will go into a third procedure. Please, I won't be able to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, just for a minute. I've never asked for the floor before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u385	The question is not if you ask for it first or once. I'm telling you, this is the process. It is logical that the Minister should also ask after the reason for your reply and for you to answer for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u386	They can't stay unanswered what he said about orchestrated opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u387	Please. The debate is closed with the Minister's position. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs is closed: "Reorganization of support structures for primary and secondary education and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u388	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u389	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u390	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Reorganisation of support structures for primary and secondary education and other provisions" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u392	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 29 March 2018, Friday 30 March 2018, Monday 16 April 2018, Wednesday 18 April 2018, Thursday 19 April 2018, Friday 20 April 2018 and Monday 23 April 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u393	The minutes of Thursday 29 March 2018, Friday 30 March 2018, Monday 16 April 2018, Wednesday 18 April 2018, Thursday 19 April 2018, Friday 20 April 2018 and Monday 23 April 2018 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-07-S1-commons.u394	With the agreement of the House at 21.33 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 8 June 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate under number 26/17/24-5-2018 of the Members of the Communist Party of Greece to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on collective agreements, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
