ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the special agenda, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question issue to the House on Thursday 24 May 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1669/21-5-2018 by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stojannidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Information on controls of the Safety and Health Inspectorate at Work (HAE) following the fire that broke out at the SUNLIGHT Battery factory and the need to create a Department of Safety and Health at Work in Xanthi Law". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1672/21-5-2018 by MP Pireaus of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Anti-nuclear preparation of the country in the light of the summer season". 3. The question by No. 1668/18-5-2018 of the Deputy Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Supporting innovations of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". 4. The Question by Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, dated 1691/22-2018, by Mr. Athens, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Christos Katsotis, Minister of Social Affairs and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Releases - trade union persecutions in the companies "ANAMET" and "VIANAT" of the Stasinopoulou Group". 5. The Question No 1652/15-2018 by MP Pella of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "They continue to remain unpaid". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1673/21-5-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems at the Roma camp of Patras". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1677/22-5-2018 by MP Aitolakaranna of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘TTEB debts to PPC and risk of destruction of farmers' crops due to lack of irrigation’. 3. The Question No 1648/15-2018 by Independent MP II of Athens, Mr.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Institute of the Academy of Arts". 4. Under No 1624/8-5-2018, a topical question by MP Larisa of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Are you planning to increase the tax on bulk tsipouro from 57 minutes to 6 euros?". 5. The 1638/15-2018 topical question by MP I Athens of New Democracy Mr. Olga Kefaloyannis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "In despair the residents of the Exarchates." 6. The Question No 1628/11-5-2018 by Independent MEP B'Athens Eftathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all kinds of attacks by underworld people and gadgets." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1609/7-5-2018 topical question by MP Larissa of the New Democracy Mr. Maximou Charakopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “A letter of protest and despair residents of the Exarchates”. 8. The 1586/2-5-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Payment of damages from the quarantine of November 2017’. 9. The Question No 1608/7-5-2018 by Mr Fotinis Arabatzis, Member of Parliament, on the subject of "First crisis in Greek ovine and caprine animals". 10. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Nine tolerance of the residents of the Exarchites in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region". 11. The 1554-24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior about the building for the accommodation of the Department of National Roads of Paionia. 12. The Question No 1555/25/2018 by Independent Messinia MEP Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Dark loans from the Turkish bank of Ziraat to tobacco producers in Thrace". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The last deadline set by Mr. Spirtzis, for the start of the proceedings to begin the work of Patras - Tower, has expired on 12 March. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 4391/15-2018 by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "A facilitation of the performance of adorable form of slaughter of small and large ruminants during the Muslim religious festival of Kurman Bayram in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace". 3. The question by No 4699-26-3-2018 by Mr Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleigh to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The animal husbandry in an emergency." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the Chairman of the Group of the Democratic Alliance of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotinis (Photo) Gennamata, at the level of party leaders, on the information of the National Representation and through it and the Greek people, on the content of the critical discussions that the Government is not taking place with partners and lenders. I would like to inform you that yesterday Parliamentary Groups were given the specific plan, which has now been tabled by the Greek side, and it is well known that there was an undeniable need for this debate to precede tomorrow's Eurogroup meeting in which the Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, will present the relevant plan. I am telling you this because there were some objections from the point of view of one or two parties that they had not been notified in time and agreed on the particular day that the debate should take place. There was no such possibility beyond consultation with the Prime Minister, with the President, Mr Gennimatas, and with the Chief of Police, because the days were specific. We had to discuss 'NOVARTIS' one day and in the Rules of Procedure there were specific deadlines for this debate and today compulsory, since it would have been approved by the Ministerial Council, and the parties and publicity would have been given the debate on the development plan. So there was no chance of this debate taking place after the Eurogroup. I say that for clarification. These issues were also clarified in yesterday's Conference of Presidents. According to Rule 143(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and of the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotinis (Phot) Gennamias, on whose initiative today's debate is taking place, is twenty-five minutes of the hour. [[Noise in the Chamber]] It'd be nice if you'd talk less loud, Mr. Georgiades. We heard you this morning and from Parliament's channel, where you had your honour. Don't go on in here. The length of speech by the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the New Democracy and Chief of Officerial Representation, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the Communist Party of Greece, the Independent Greeks, the Association of Centres and the River is twenty minutes of the hour for each. Since they will not be able to attend this debate - and that is why I told you earlier about the definition of the debate - the Presidents of the People's Association Parliamentary Groups - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michaliokos and the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos will be given the floor, as decided in the Conference of Presidents, to the Deputy Representatives of the Parliamentary Groups, according to the force of the Parliamentary Group for fifteen minutes, without the right of second reading, after the end of the prototype of the Heads of Parliamentary Groups. This is the case despite the Rules of Procedure by decision of the Conference of Presidents, after the end of the series of Heads of State or Government. One of these is the Deputy Representative of the Group of the People's League Parliamentary Party - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotaros and the other is the Deputy Representative of the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos. They also take part in the debate up to two Ministers. At today's meeting the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Ioannis Drasakis and Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos will be present and given the floor. In accordance with Article 143(4), the speaking time of the ministers shall be up to 10 minutes. The speaking time of the Minister intervening at the stage of the main speeches or at the end of the speeches or the seconds of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall be limited to half of the time they are entitled to. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, the Minister of Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, will speak after the third speaker, netting his period of prototype and secondary education due to his departure for Brussels in order to participate in the Eurogroup and ECOFIN. The Prime Minister has the right for 15 minutes and for 10 minutes the Presidents of Parliament and the Ministers. It will be done again in the same order, not in reverse order. In other words, once the Heads of Government have finished, the two parliamentary representatives of the two parties who are missing their heads will speak once more, then the Vice-President of the Government and then again in the order they first speak. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify, if he wishes, for five minutes of the hour. And that's how the meeting will end. You've all taken your seats. Thank you. Unfortunately, I'm starting half an hour late. It's not too much, but it's not a bit. We usually keep all times. I very much ask Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the National Representation is being called today to discuss the crucial issues of the economy. That is why we have responded immediately to the request made by the head of the Change Movement in its proposal to hold a debate in Parliament on a pre-dated agenda. I have no doubt at all that there is a risk once again that we should not talk about the facts in front of us. I have no doubt that we will once again hear from the wards of counter-population too much risky, destructive, that is, what we have been used to hearing, but that we do not, fortunately, see the place in the last three years. I would like to disprove today, but I'm afraid I don't have much hope. In any case, I will try to make this debate productive. To do this, of course, I have to start on a basis, the real economic data and the reality that no matter how much one wants to twist it is not easy. We have been struggling with constant siphoning towards the exit from what we have known over the last eight years, from this suffocating comitology and this terrible crisis. The last steps on this route have been left. Already a very important part of the latest measures on this route has been covered by the technical agreement reached last Saturday for the fourth and final assessment of the economic adjustment programme, within a timeframe and without any additional costs, rather than - I repeat - the disastrous forecasts of counter-population and of various other people, journalists, media that are being made public by destroying, usually, and making sure that this fourth assessment brings an additional financial burden, that we are forced by the institutions to vote on additional measures in 2019, that not only will there be room for the positive measures already adopted in 2019, but we will also bring additional measures from 2020. Once again, however, the devastated were disappointed. And I assure you that they will be disappointed again in the next few weeks when discussions and negotiations on both open issues are expected to end at the moment. The first is to specify the measures to regulate the Greek debt. The framework, I would remind you, has already been defined by the Eurogroup's decisions last June. And we are working intensively, so that this openness can also be closed, to identify these measures, in the context of, I repeat, the decision data from last June. And, of course, this development will be crucial in order to send a strong signal to the international investment community. The second open issue concerns the post-programming regime. This is a process which has also been followed for the other countries which have been in support programmes. It is in no way what some pray on a daily basis, that is to say the extension of the memorandum and of external compulsions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I know that many people may not like to hear this, but I will say it, and we will say it again and again, let us inspire it: Greece, after eight years of great adventure and crisis in budgetary, social, economic, value crisis and institution crisis, is finally coming out of this adventure. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In August 2018, the memos are a definitive past for the place. And this is a definitive, irreversible and unresolved development. It wasn't self-evident to happen. It wasn't the physical continuity of things. And much more, it was not this development that the image of the country was provoking at the end of 2014, as you sometimes falsely claim from the side of Antipopulation and those who ruled at that time. Let me remind you, let me remind you again, where the country was found at the time: 25% loss of the Gross Domestic Product in the country, half of GDP in just four years. Measures amounting to EUR 65 million had been implemented at the same time. Unemployment was 27% and the young had reached 60%. And of course, then, the fifth year of memoranda was closed, but the country's budget remained completely derailed. Even the much-advertised primary surplus, which the Samaras government allegedly managed for 2014, has recently been demonstrated by ELSTAT's revised figures that it was not even a surplus, even small. In fact, while the targets for 1.5% which were then the surplus were not met, the country was committed for the next four years with primary surpluses of 4% to 4.5% of GDP. While, despite the fantasy of that period of success and preventive credit line, notice, what today is our floor, for you was a ceiling and an inappropriate target, as proved. Because your allies at the time - I am referring to parties and governments with reference to the European People's Party, but also to the institutions - pointed out that the programme was then inversely out of the way. And all this in an environment of instability, social unrest, tensions of social and generalised repression by a government, which had promoted itself as its greatest enemy, then the people, and the demonstrations and mobilisations. But this Greece is a past. I remind you what was happening in 2014, to compare where we are today, in 2018. We have an economy that runs now at a substantial positive growth rate: 1.5% in 2017, around 2% in 2018, more than 2% forecast for the next few years. It closes slowly - the great wound of unemployment. Over the last three years it has been reduced by seven percentage points through the creation of over three hundred and fifty thousand new jobs, while undeclared work has fallen from 19% to 13%. Also in 2017, it was closed with a new financial over-return, as even the difficult 2015 and, of course, in 2016. And we had the possibility both in 2016 and in 2017, because of this over-performance, to give for two consecutive years social dividends that touch the 2 billion euros to those who really need it. And we have every reason to believe that we will manage to do so in 2018, on the basis of our financial forecasts. Today, too, we have a solution, which is expected to be further defined for the chronic thorn of the public debt we hope will be the positive curtain - let me say it - that it will be the decisive point that will shape the framework for the definitive exit of the country from the memorandum regime. These are the facts today, ladies and gentlemen. And I had to say it, because on this data we have to start a debate on the economy. And these are our things, which, of course, - I repeat - were not achieved without any effort, they did not come as a natural development, but they are the result of a hard work and, of course, a job with absolute respect for the sacrifices of the Greek people. And one would expect that the positive perspective for the place after many years would be a welcome development from all of Parliament's wings. It seems, however, that the Qualified Opposition seems to be annoyed and even stirred. Because it continues obsessedly to the same line as it kept throughout this course, which brought the country to the threshold of exiting from the memoranda, a line that had no sense of responsibility, but also no sense of reality, a line based on distortion, propaganda and destruction. Let me list what you say today: First of all, you say that there is no end to the memorandum, that the economy does not recover, that the country today is worse than it was in 2014. You say that we are not going to get anything about the debt and that the decisions of Eurogroup in June last year were a hole in the water. And, of course, that we must not go out on the markets self-sustaining, but seek what you then sought and did not, of course, achieve the credit line. And you say all this and you're stuck in these positions regardless of what's going on around, no matter what's going on. You are stuck with the same things you were saying before the second assessment was closed - and now the fourth one is closing - as if you were not interested in the evolution of things and what the reality is. But in this way I'm afraid you're losing and whatever credibility you have left. How can citizens take your criticism seriously? How can the citizens take a political force which has been disgusting for three years in every destructive scenario they have made? What should I first remember? Your certainty, your absolute certainty that the first evaluation would not be closed when, just before, you first asked for elections? Remember your confidence that the infamous cutter would be activated in early 2017 and would we have large horizontal cuts in wages and pensions? May I remind you later of your insistence that we will not have a financial space for countermeasures in 2019 and 2020, which you also voted against in Parliament? May I recall - let me say, in terms of ideological, that - your obscene investment in the possible intransigence of lenders to work, the most famous IMF, which became a motto of your policy at work? But if you stayed in destructive, it'd be fine. The worst problem for the country is that beyond your destructive predictions, you have already tried to make it a reality. May I remind you of your staff calls, which have leadership positions today, to leave the testimonies abroad at critical times for the Greek economy? May I remind you of your visits to Brussels and Berlin where you were actually asking European officials to stand firm against the Greek Government and question the positive steps in the economy? May I remind you of your risk to the banking system, that it will not, in the end, successfully pass the stress tests? Should I remind you of your recent position at an event by the industrialists, where you called on investors not to bring investments until it was restored - it says - in Greece political stability? 'Cause it looks like for you... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] It seems that for you stability is to be in power the company of offshore, the scandals and the corruption that bankrupt the country! That's stability! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But now that we are coming out of the crisis, there is no stability for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u4	How much to first? Your attitude, Mr Mitsotakis, will remain in history, because you will be remembered as the political leader who turned a historic party to a sterile protest party, to a party of destructiveness, but also to permanently undermine the interests and capabilities of the Greek economy. But here you have arrived, you will drink the glass to the end. In two months, what the Greek people have hoped for for eight years now, what you and your partners have been doing to the governments since the first day you put the place in the memoranda, after you have gone bankrupt the country, but you have never succeeded, it will become a reality. It'll come true and you guys won't have done it, we'll have done it. Greece will finally come out of the memos! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And history will record that you went bankrupt the country and put us in this deep well, and we, with difficulty, with sacrifices, but also with a plan, took the place out of the remnant and lead him to a new era, fair growth, hope and social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken about a project and that is very important. It is important that, for the first time, we are discussing an overall development plan, discussing the productive model, discussing what the competitive advantages of the Greek economy are on which we need to invest. And we don't talk in secret. We have already held fourteen - the two are in Attica - regional conferences. We are talking with the productive bodies of the place, we are talking about local government, we are compiling, seeing the potential of the place, we are recognising the weaknesses and difficulties, we are concerned about tomorrow in this place. I know that we paid dearly - even in the years of plating prosperity - the pathogens of an anarchist productive model, which was structured only to serve the interests of a state-owned oligarchy and its political representatives and officials. The plan that the country needs - a 'olistic' plan, as we say - which includes the means, objectives and its implementations, is a plan that needs to be debated wide and confronted not on fakes, makes, figures, false destructive forecasts, but on our real differences - ideological and political - about how we want it to be the productive model of the country. I will dwell on what forms the central idea of the project that we are presenting to you, that is, our basic concept of the next day. For us, the recovery of the country is a concept identical to the recovery of labour. We are equally concerned about the recovery of economic indicators by creating new jobs, i.e. by falling unemployment indicators. And, of course, we are equally concerned about the question of the quality of this work, namely labour rights and decent wages. Our country - there is no doubt and perhaps there we do not disagree - has strong comparative advantages, which must be exploited in a number of areas where new wealth can be produced, such as processing, industry, agri-food, tourism, shipping and medicine, logistics, innovation, new entrepreneurship, but also infrastructure, energy. In order to strengthen, however, these areas, which we all agree have advantages, need resources, financial instruments, which will fuel this great effort to rebuild production. The country now has not only the resources from the Public Investment Programme and the ESDP. I am passing through, in the last three years Greece has remained the country with the greatest adsorption throughout Europe. And that is another element, which proves how effective this effort is. It is not only the EIF, the Public Investment Programme, and the ESDP, but also the Juncker package, with investments worth 8 billion, which we are also first in Europe. I noticed the day before yesterday that the President of the Commission, Mr Yunker, was at this step, that you were a little upset - as, of course, when he spoke of a clean exit - when he said that, when he said that Greece is first in relation to the absorption of the Yunker package. And I found that the worst thing you've ever had is that you yourself are convinced by your propaganda, that the worst thing you've ever done is that you've been convinced by what you're always saying to the media. And when European officials come here, you get upset when you hear the truth! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In any case, in addition to the NSRF and the Juncker project, there are also the resources of the European Investment Bank, with investments that they will generate, according to the bank, up to 20 billion in the next three years and 2.5 billion in the first phase. This, together with the individual initiatives and the establishment of individual funds to strengthen innovation, start-ups and finance small and medium-sized enterprises, set up a coherent plan, a resource-oriented plan where they will actually catch a place and multiply the return on investment in areas of strategic importance. I have therefore spoken about the areas in which the country must invest in order to create new, more jobs. As I said before, however, these jobs must also ensure better working conditions. Greece must support its economy in the working world. And that means that undeclared work must cease to be the norm. It has already, of course, been limited to 13% since 19%. But that is not enough for us! Our commitment is undeclared and implied work to be chased, radically shrinked - we have already made a great effort and will continue to do so - with a view, but also a national plan, within three years, to reach 5%. Also, a big issue for us, the next day, for the new era, are the collective negotiations that are coming back. Because what the neoliberals call 'free competition' between workers is something else we call it. We call it'medium-industrial' rather than 'free competition'. All workers must have a common starting point for developing their skills, a guarantee that will strengthen their negotiating power. Because no man can respond to the needs of his work, improve and really be productive if he wakes up and sleeps every day in fear of dismissal. And, of course, for us there is no real growth, without an increase in wages, that is to say, without a part of this growth, and the main element, which is the main factor in the production process, which is the worker. So, starting with the minimum wage, there will gradually be an increase in the remaining wages. Because, apart from a fundamental issue of social justice, it is also vitally important to increase the wage share in the overall economic cycle, because this is the only way of strengthening private consumption, affecting positive key sectors of the economy, such as trade and processing. Ladies and gentlemen, the productive model we are presenting in Greek society, in the parties, in the institutions and also in the institutions has completely different hierarchies than we used to do in the past. This is because from the extremist exploitation model and the insistence on reducing labour costs, that is, - in short - the model of job crash in the name of competitiveness, we are passing on to a model that invests in the quality and added value of the product, of course in an environment of labour security and dignity - that is what we are seeking - which also improves productivity and the potential to focus on innovation. This is the basis on which we are building, the investment, that is, the living forces of labour and the new generation. That is, if you like, the essence of the development plan that we are discussing today. Because, you know, at the end of the day, the effort to support the competitiveness of the Greek economy in the constant reduction in wages, the plan that you had all had in the past while you were ruling, is nothing but a subsidy to the non-innovative employer, the employer, that is to say, who does not want to take risks, to the employer who does not want to invest and find the easy way to increase his profits, through the constant compaction of labour costs. That's why we think this model, your model, is an obsolete model. That is why we believe that your neoliberal concepts, presented as fresh and dynamic, are really very old and failed. The same applies to the forces of the state-owned economic elite of the place and the parasitic bourgeoisie of the place, whose interests you represent, the powers of the old Greece, which did not assume any responsibility for the bankruptcy of the country, when the country was on the edge of the cliff. They only knew how to share profits in the times of growth and now, of course, they are still present and they do not want to risk. They want everything ready. They don't want to invest, they don't want to innovate, they don't want to create. They simply want, as they have done before, to continue to be overcrowded at the expense of the state and of work. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, when we saw and saw our plan, they scared and scared you and you and they... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Yes, of course. It's a fact. What did you do, of course? You've started the well-known modular of communication, you've begun to permeate it. And since you told us at the outset that it was a report of ideas, that it was for first-year economic studies and so forth, then you were pleased to tell us that Europeans have already rejected it, that it does not exist, that it is not discussed. "As long as the fox does not reach the hangers," says a proverb. Now that Greece as a normal country acquires for the first time a development, strategic plan and is not left to its fate, you are, once again, opposite and stoned. You're right. We don't mind that. But, Mr Mitsotakis, I expect you to listen to this: you do not like this plan. Dispose of it, stone it. We are honoured, because - I repeat - the dividing lines, the ideological differences are known. But will you tell us what it is? I will try to approach it - and if you want, disprove me afterwards, this beauty has been open dialogue - on the basis of what you have been told lately. What have you told us about the answerable interventions you have been doing all the time? You've told us you think the eighth is over. You are talking about the need for new employment relationships, obviously rubber. You refer to collective bargaining as a left-wing ideal. Refugee health support as you see overcrowded medical staff in public hospitals. Promise the reintroduction of the speech "a intake to five redundancies for the public", the moment we are already in one to three and we have agreed with the institutions since 2019 to go in one by one. And you promise one to five, that is, in 2019, to have about six and a half thousand less intakes to strengthen gaps in education and health. In order not to forget - I have not forgotten you, Mr Georgiadis, how to forget you, I very much appreciate - what you were saying when you were Minister, that the troika will take your glory, and you do not want the troika to steal your glory for redundancies. These are your views. You also consider the introduction of outsourcing to the public sector to be an appropriate solution, even to vital institutions such as the General Accounting Office of the State. And, of course, you are asking for a credit line against the prospect of clean exit and self-powered access to the markets. These have been recorded as your main positions. Ladies and gentlemen, you will tell us what is known as destructive and will devaluate as long as you can the plan that we have presented. But I would like you to give specific answers to three basic questions: do you agree with the increase in the minimum wage, yes or no? Do you agree with avoiding lockout, yes or no? Do you agree with the non-liberation of team redundancies, yes or no? Do you agree with the reintroduction of collective bargaining and working normality, yes or no? I want you to answer, let's see your plan. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't get exhausted. It is a rhetorical question and we already know the answer Mr Mitsotakis will give. In addition, I think, Mr Mitsotakis, that you must have been covered by a televised teleworker on SKAI's television the other day, who told us that he said: 'Wasta, IMF, weight, IMF'. It did not run the IMF and the government won the work for the benefit of workers, for the benefit of society! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] After all, your plan was "wave, IMF" three and a half years and "watch, Shoeble", because your plan is summarised in the quadruple: Memorandums, redundancies, cuts, sale. This black period for the country, however, ends once and for all. As much as you try to turn the country back, this black period ends for the country. And I want to tell you something and I'm closing with it. I believe that ultimately your defeat is not politics, it is a strategy. Because Greece of the recession, labour insecurity and employers' arbitrariness, Greece of corruption and moral degeneration, Greece of the collapse of the social state and of the desecration of health and education, Greece of the rosphetus, the state-owned, allegedly, investors have finally passed in the past. Today dawns a new possibility for the place, a new dawn. And the light of this new dawn will strengthen, the clearer our dividing lines will appear. The more we move away from the narrow corset of adjustment programmes, the more clear the difference between your own and our own policy will be. And that's ultimately what you're afraid of above all. That's why you're dissipating, creeping out, I'd say, with the prospect of getting out of the memorial, so you're afraid in September of 2018, so you're constantly undermining, because you understand that the parenthesis is not only closing, but remains open and will remain open for the next four years for the sake of the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] To reconstruct the Greek economy, while keeping society up, with respect for the rights of citizens, the principles of equality and social justice. Every day that passes we will also record a new victory, a victory for the forces of society, the workers, the unemployed, that is, those who gave the mandate to us and are here today, to get the country out of the crisis honestly and clearly. And every day he passes, your political nightmare will come closer to you. We succeed where you failed all three attempts at the three governments. We are opening a way of perspective for the country. Whatever you're doing, you won't be able to either turn the country back or you'll be back. Greece won't come back. He's leaving, he's moving forward, he's leaving the memos, he's entering a new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and a meeting of the Academy of Potologists of Greece. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and students and two educational sessions from the 8th Eleftheas Municipal School. The House welcomes them. The President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Fotini Genomes for twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, we waited for this half-hour you spoke to us indeed to present your proposal for the country's famous exit from the crisis. Now, of course, you will also be right to 'have you, Mrs Gennamas, as well as me, for such serious things'. I have listened very carefully and I have not heard a single word about what is going to happen in this place. You have chosen once again to criticise the past and one-sided attack on the New Democracy. And now it's perfectly clear why you're doing this. But why have you chosen a camp? You are carrying out all these years of conservative policies and leave these tears to work relationships now, because the collective negotiations had to be back in 2016. You have extended it and you are still saying that by legislation the minimum wage will increase. So, enough lies and fairy tales. Your political account has been desolated and the hope that you promised her so many times, never came. The exit from the "Tsipras Memorandum" - because it is your Memorandum - leads to a new programme. August and the festivals you're preparing lead to a heavy winter. That's why we don't have the right to just stay watchers. On the contrary, we have a duty to put brakes on the downhill of this government, which only cares about its political survival. The demagogue of the government in conjunction with the irresponsibility of the New Democracy, which has started the impulse, create additional risks. That's why I'm asking for elections. For in the next few weeks, important decisions will be taken that will determine the future of the country and the people. Your co-government has absolutely no legitimacy to agree, and in fact, in secret, to the future of the country. Mr. Tsipras, you already gave it all up. The country's public property has been allocated for ninety years, together with the banks in today's owners instead of a lenty billboard, and with damage to the public 25 billion euros. You have now ensured the future and interests of lenders. I'm asking for elections because you didn't just break up today. You're also supposed to be tomorrow. You know very well that you have legislated painful measures for the next two years and agreed beastly primary surpluses and suffocating surveillance for many years. The famous 'clean exit' is nothing but a fourth memorandum, without money, with your signature, Mr Tsipras. I am asking for elections, because the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict proves dangerous and critical national issues. Dilinguality, curiosity, superficiality. Our Greek officers are still in custody in Adrianopolis prisons. Turkey now openly invokes domination on rocky islands in the Aegean. At a favourable time for scaffolding, the government has come to discuss the epitome of alutism as a solution. That shows the scale of the problem. And your co-pilot, who chose not to be here today, has another strategy, linked to his political survival and his extreme right-wing idealism on all national issues. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I ask for elections, because the connections in this House are in complete contrast with the links in society. You are a sad minority today among the Greek people. The gap between the government and society each day grows. And, of course, you know very well that in normal democracies these issues are solved by elections. So I ask for elections because your government proves incompetent and dangerous. The account for society and the real economy grows every day. Ladies and gentlemen, I accuse SYRIZA - ANEL and Mr Tsipras personally, because they have hit and continue to hit the people's interests crucially, in the name of, allegedly, their defence. They lifted the flag of the commemorative struggle, refused all understanding and thus came to power. Their tenacity cost 200 billion euros to the economy and burdened citizens with an additional EUR 18 billion. I blame SYRIZA - ANEL and Mr Tsipras personally for their sad performance in the country's central demand, which is development. You proclaimed persecution in every productive and profitable activity. You've led more and more young scientists to flee abroad. But when you are destroying the country's ability to produce, create jobs, how do you expect the country to come out of the crisis, with the help of what forces? You also let the existing human resources, which either employs or is unemployed and wants to work, downgrade and lose their skills. What have you done to retrain the unemployed so that they can be reintegrated into the production process? Don't get tired, rhetoric is the question, I know. You haven't done anything. They're fine letters for you. You have ruled at a time when there have been exceptional circumstances and you have not exploited them. The growth rate in the countries of the European Union, low oil prices, instability in the surrounding region, which has favoured our tourism. At this time, growth was practically zero. And this is really the black hole in the administration of Tsipras. Estimates at the end of 2014 were uploaded to 11% over three years. On SYRIZA - ANEL it only reached 0.8%. What does that mean? It means that they have been lost by the Greek economy at your own risk of 20 billion people's income. I blame SYRIZA - ANEL for the delinquency and delivery of the banking system to foreign controls, with particularly adverse results for financing the economy, the restructuring of the productive fabric and the management of red loans. I blame SYRIZA - ANEL and Mr Tsipras personally, because you have made the Greek people poor. You destroyed the middle class and kneeled down the weakest citizens. Today almost two million Greeks do not even meet their basic needs. You have turned Greek workers, professionals, farmers, into Europe's largest tax base. You have led to a eruption of citizens' overdue debts to the state, and more than a million citizens are threatened with seizures. One in three small and medium-sized enterprises, according to the information provided by the GFCM itself, is threatened with a lock in its business. I blame the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for demolishing the social state, really dismantling public health, education, cutting off the NSA, reducing pensions, and even the widow's pensions, reducing the heating allowance and stepping up the flexible forms of employment, leading to hunger wages of 1/3 of the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u7	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u8	You opened the way for the mass auctions of the first home and the small and medium-sized borrowers. And you invoke as an element of social policy what? The so-called dividend of "blooded" overflows, to use your own expression. You, who did not hesitate to achieve a surplus of 1.7% of GDP, that is, about 4 billion, for 2017 to remove from the economy, businesses, households 7.5 billion, i.e. 3.5 billion more, with extermination taxes and contributions, which undermined growth and jobs, with cuts by the state, public hospitals, social infrastructure. And then, as a so-called philanthropist, you announced only EUR 1,25 billion, with the logic of temporary allowances! I blame the co-government of SYRIZA - ANEL and Mr Tsipras personally for the systematic decommissioning of institutions and the continued retreat of the rule of law over their days. From suffocating control of justice to misery to media control, the list is long and black, very black. Discrimination of powers, a fundamental principle of civil justice, is a unknown word for the SYRIZA - ANEL, whose ultimate purpose is to establish the party state. I blame SYRIZA - ANEL and Mr Tsipras personally for attempting to restore the entire customer state. They "days", they exterminate evaluation, they oppose worthyness, excellence, they dismantle self-government. What SYRIZA - ANEL doesn't control is slandering it first and then dissolves it with destructive maniac. I blame SYRIZA - ANEL and Mr Tsipras personally for splitting and still splitting the Greek people, depriving the largest weapon for overcoming the crisis, which is its unity. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Your tears, Mr. Tsipras, for the fascist attack on Yannis Boutaris are crocodile. If it were true, you would have figured out the way all these years, even today, to condemn the pre-conflicts against the President of the Republic, on 28 October 2011 in Thessaloniki by a group of indignant Members with your head as well as the pre-conflicts of so many PASOK officials. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] How can you do this, however, when you yourself from this Step of the House have told us ‘will we make you not come out of your homes’? That was and it seems to be your idea. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And at some point, cowardly - cowardly, in 2011, you said, supposedly, that you condemned the violence, but you rushed to justify it immediately as an indignation of those who experience the violence of the memorials, that is, mocking in front of all of us in front of the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And today, as a government, you are showing provocative tolerance to violence and lawlessness. I blame SYRIZA - ANEL for the mistaken strategy that follows on from the issue of debt reduction. He even disobeyed the positive commitments of the 2012 Eurogroup and paid EUR 6.5 billion to European bankers to ensure the well-known creditworthiness of creditors. Greece had to close the prerequisites of the third memorandum as quickly as possible, that is to say, that it is becoming a credible country, without risk of returning and then developing international debt alliances. The government, however, also had a precarious strategy here and did exactly the opposite. Among other things, she has delayed the prerequisites and has caused a political uncertainty on her own. Now it creates a new picture that, with the exit from this memorandum, all problems end as magically. We were told the evaluation was closed. The truth, however, is that of eighty eight prerequisites a small part has been completed. What prevented you from doing so so far? Are you planning to transfer a large part of them, much of what you have agreed to and agreed with the lenders, after the end of the programme, i.e. thinking to the next government, to add - why do you not end the commitments you have made - to the commitments that you have made so long before 2022 and to finalise this fourth essentially memorandum, which you have agreed, a memorandum without money, but only with commitments and commitments? I do not, however, hide, ladies and gentlemen, that I am particularly concerned at this juncture and the attitude of the Opposition Officer. Mr Mitsotakis, who has been calling for two years in constant elections, is now awkwardly following the government to "negotiate" the country's perspective and gives an appointment in the autumn. But the country, the economy, society cannot be driven into this difficult future unprotected and unsafe. The New Democracy is not legitimate to close its eyes and effectively leave the fate of the country in the hands of the SYRIZA - ANEL. In fact, you are letting Mr Tsipras, in white, determine developments, a Prime Minister and a government that have shown that they have a complete weakness of negotiation. We will not stay on tracking developments, just waiting for the mature fruit, as New Democracy does. SYRIZA - ANEL and New Democracy have no plans and adopt the logic of'seeing and doing'. That is why we have provoked today's debate, so that we can finally get everyone's real thoughts and intentions out of the dark at last. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] To explain to us, particularly the government, what is the content of the discussions with lenders and what is its plan for the country after the end of the programme, because we have heard nothing last half of the day. Aron - I am sure you made the famous holistic development programme public yesterday. Three things have focused on us in this report of ideas. Firstly, this is a holistic pension cut programme. That's for sure. Pensioners on fire. What thirteenth pension did they expect from you? The twelfth is cut here, and we're moving on for the twelfth in full. There are, of course, the reductions in tax-free allowances that are being struck by both pensioners and employees, that is, they follow even greater reductions in their income. Secondly, ENPIA lives and reigns. Really, Mr. Tsipras, is it no longer that unjust tax that you were going to abolish at once, would you tear it up with an article, with a law? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It has been three years and we are still waiting for it to be recorded in the holistic plan in the near future. But he won't have too soon yet. Thirdly, the biggest, he says, reform that they did and boast about it is the superstition, that is, the sale of public property. Congratulations, Mr. Tsipras, you have done it! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] On the other hand, the problem with the continuation of the memorandum, which some make up, is that, as it did not correct the misdeeds of the Greek economy in previous years, it will not correct them now. It will simply brake the fiscal symptoms with new taxes, and she will dominate exactly what Greece will do when the new postponement is over. We believe that the careful and gradual end of monitoring by the memoranda is the only serious strategy, but they need to bring together a series of actions and policies, which the current government does not seem to understand or seek. The country needs a direct political change. It needs a credible government, which will have the power and authority to implement a national line for the place. In this context, firstly, the burden of negotiation and consultation must fall to the ESM, who already owns most of the official debt and has stated that he will gradually acquire the balance, as well as making brave transfers of payments. We must immediately claim the profits earned by the central banks from Greek bonds and for some reason that no one understands in this place, you have not claimed them, you have given them so many years. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] At the same time, the agreement must finally finalise the role of the International Monetary Fund to stop constantly putting issues of new measures. Finally, this little cat needs to be finished, and we need to know where we're going. Greece, in cooperation with the European institutions, can do so if it makes it clear what and when to do with debt and deficits. The restructuring and substantial reduction of debt will also lead to lowering the primary surpluses of 3.5%, which you have accepted, to 2% of GDP, thus releasing resources for growth and social cohesion. Advise a line of defense of the ESM in the event of speculative attacks on Greek bonds. To apply a kind of support for Greek bonds, as was done about the credit relaxation of the European Central Bank in previous years. It is true that any design requires confidentiality and not public controversy between the Government and the Bank of Greece, as we have been amazed for the past time. The exit from the memoranda will not be made, ladies and gentlemen, either with wrestling or improvisations, with a view to electoral purposes. The right choice for the country is careful and planned exit, but it requires a binding consensus framework for the coming years. The same was done in the other Eurozone countries that came out of supervision and re-entered a reform and development path. The second pillar of what needs to be done from now on. Consensus is also required to attract investment. To end the polarization and the toxic climate that drives away and discourages investors. Target? Development investment of 100 billion in the country over the next five years. Investments from foreign capital and from Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, with the abolition of all bureaucratic obstacles, with fast track procedures in the standard that we have worked in the Olympic Games for licensing. We must move on to large-scale investments in every region of the country and solve all issues relating to conditions of construction and use of land from the outset. Extension of PPP and other sectors other than infrastructure. Insurance and tax incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers and businesses. It is time to stimulate household income by reducing their taxes and also by reducing insurance contributions for employees and professionals. Granting of work through tax exemptions for a substantial reduction in unemployment, particularly young people, women and the elderly. Development of the digital transformation of the fourth industrial revolution, supporting new, extroverting, innovative activities. Sectors in education, training and work experience systems, focusing on upgrading the skills and skills of human resources in new technologies, because we will acquire more quality and better paid full-time jobs and open up return roads for our children so that they can stay and work at their place. An important role for the productive reconstruction of the site and regional development is the self-government of the first and second degrees, not by means of methods which imply "CLITHENH", but with substantial responsibilities in the planning and implementation of social policy, but also of development, by transferring the corresponding resources. Each region of the country may obtain a development identity. Third pillar. Completion of reforms in the economy, in the institutions and in the state, so as to put an end to the clientele and party logic in its operation. Acceleration of justice. Fourth pillar. Conversion of the surplus fund, for which you are delightful, from a divestment fund to a fund for the exploitation of the national wealth of public property, ensuring that much of the revenue will be directed at the development and strengthening of the social security system in order to ensure future generations. Fifth pillar. A new social state for a fair distribution of newly produced wealth and a reduction in inequalities. People who really need it must feel that they will have a stable and fair dividend from the success of the new effort and not a single tip to unwritten votes, as you have been doing all this time. Minimum guaranteed income, an increase in the minimum wage through the general national collective agreement. Lower guaranteed pensions of EUR 500, and of course no child should stay out of nursery schools. We've been talking about it for two years. And finally, a radical change of the Katrugalo Law. This law undermines social security, ladies and gentlemen. It turns pensions into tips. It eliminates professionals, scientists, farmers with constant increased contributions. It's time to change him as a whole. A radical change with a fair, sustainable system that respects reciprocity will set a monthly ceiling on contributions, ensure decent pensions and transgenic solidarity. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Today, all the political forces of the country must inform the Greek people of the content that each one gives to the pillars of the national line, of how they perceive the negotiations, but also of the final agreement with the partners. Our country and our people must not be found in the face of a fait accompli. That is why the Change Movement believes that it is now time for the Greek people to decide with what guarantees and with whom to the steering wheel can safely move on to the real sustainable exit from the crisis. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I call for elections now, shortly before the formal exit from the memoranda, so that it does not become the impasse that is irreversible, so as not to complete the cycle of lost opportunities for the place, the collapse that is step by step in recent years. I call for elections now, so that the country can gain leadership and government in the circumstances, reliable and capable. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ability to negotiate from a new position and on a new basis the next day, make the country a new beginning. And I'm not just talking about lenders and negotiations. I am talking about our country's crucial contribution to the critical and fluid developments and conditions in the region, the safeguarding of Greece's new role, with full respect for its alliances, as a neural and cornerstone and as an extreme European border in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans. I now call for elections for a new leadership and government that can reliably guarantee the changes that are needed in order to recover a significant part of our national sovereignty, not in words, but at last in practice, to return to the centre of European developments as an equal country. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Leadership and government that has the power, the knowledge, the proposal to move forward with the necessary reconstruction of the Hellenic Republic, to productive reconstruction, to trigger the growth required by times, to the reform of the social state. To design, in other words, the course that will lead to safety and dignity conditions for Greeks and Greece. I now call for elections for a new leadership and government that expresses the strong will of the great majority, the maximum possible and parliamentary support, which finally promotes conditions of national consensus and consensus on the divisive and dead-end practices that we are experiencing today. On an agreed and costly program of exit from the crisis and with a radical change in the way the country is governed. A truly progressive governance, conservatism and left and right-wing turbulent populism. I call for elections now and you can be sure that no matter how far you exorcise them, you will ultimately not avoid them. It is some historical moments when needs and reality are imposed on any intentions and overturn justified, straightforward developments and election plans. So party salvation scripts make their place necessarily in the cheques of national salvation. And we are at a time like this, which we must take the national interest, and our resignation has always been a patriotic patriotic side. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] These are moments when the political overthrow becomes inevitable and the term of history changes direction. We are here, present and fighting for what dictates the interest of the people and of the country. To put our own seal of political stability and progressive governance on a better next day for Greek women, Greeks and the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Kamaterou Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras, I do not see any great interest in your holistic plan, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u11	Now that you're talking, they're coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u12	Oh, they'll be back later, fine. We are talking today about the economy and the government and Mr Tsipras personally felt the need to apologise for the situation in which they have brought the country and the Greeks. Unfortunately, however, the situation covers a gray cloud of violence, blind violence against the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Mr. Boutaris, and vandalism in the historic building of the Council of State. Watch the alarming coincidence. Attacked by a democratically elected representative, the mayor of the second largest city and also by one of the two supreme bodies of justice, which primarily represents the separation of powers and thus the orderly functioning of the society. In other words, it was a double blow to the citizens' self-evident right to choose who governs, to protect it when it is wrong, to live in a safe and civilised state. That is why, because the glass is already overflowing, the condemnation must be explicit, absolute, without asterisks and no escapades. That is what we have done, as a nationally responsible party from the very beginning. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But it is high time, Mr Tsipras, that you too were involved in your sinful past, but also in your problematic presence. Along with the rest of your delusions, you must condemn the hangings of the indignant, which you have entangled, and with absolute cynicism you have legalised and at last ask for an apology for your bishop speech, for the undoubted phrases: "Or we, or we end them or we end them." Stop, finally, extinguishing trabucism, calling it activism. Finally, you realize that it is the result of your own left idealism to separate violence from that of the far right and from that of the crowded crowd. I was very impressed, Mr Tsipras, by the tweet you made following the attack on Mr Boutaris, in which you said that those who attacked are neither angered citizens nor a crowded crowd. What do you mean? Do you mean that if they were indignant citizens and a crowded crowd, they would be legalized to attack? Because that's what you mean. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Violence is therefore one and is a danger to democracy. I invite you from this step, Mr Tsipras, finally to do what is self-evident: not just condemn the violence from wherever it comes, but make a commitment to prove it in practice too. Release Exarchia, schools and universities of the country, abandoned buildings and give them back to the citizens. Finish with the Ruviks, Mr. Tsipras. Mayor Tinos with eight staff at the Tinos Police Department arrested them. Arrested ‘Ruvikon’. Can't you do this here? You don't want to do it, because your selective relationships with space are such that your old companions don't allow you. I found Mr. Toska's abhorrence very interesting. "Baby squeezing," he told us he was the "Rubic". So I assume Mom will help him to stand on his feet "with affection and precursor".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u13	I expect to hear a word about the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u14	It's yours. Why are you mad, Mr. Colleague? It wasn't us. You're the ones who say it. At last, protect the Greeks and the neighborhoods, the public property belonging to everyone. That's your job, Mr. Tsipras. If you can't quit. But I never allow you to leave the slightest suggestion that the New Democracy has anything to do with any expression of violence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You burned Athens in 2008. You mocked and disemboweled the "indignant" when they were talking about hangers. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You are the equal of the physical violence of the memorials by force of spasm and prejudice. You, Mr Tsipras, have always added a "but" when your politicians were attacked when they beaten our own MPs and Members of the Democratic Union. It was never a convict without an asterisk. There has always been a 'but', a suggestion that this reaction is somewhat justified because we were the ones who supposedly voted on the memorandum. You, Mr Tsipras, are the one who, after eight years, you dare not say a single word to honor the memory of Marfin's murdered. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do not look at me so awkwardly, because you have a huge responsibility for the unprecedented lawlessness in recent years in our country. Whether you like it or not, you'll get the answers you deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest events forced me to begin my speech. Of course, I think everyone understands that Mr. Tsipras has tried to exploit himself in an inconceivable manner and in a profoundly insulting way for the history of this party the attack Mr. Boutaris was attacked. He did so to hide his universal failure to the serious issues that concern citizens. So I come to the economy and since Mr Tsipras hastened to make a very interesting historical path of what has happened in the country since 2014, I would like to highlight to him a coincidence that looks like a tragic irony. It is today 23 May, and with a guide on this date, let us make a brief revert to three years of SYRIZA - ANLE. So let us talk about what Mr Tsipras' holistic development plan does not tell us. So let's get started. Three years ago, on May 23, 2015, in the midst of the creative ambiguity of Mr Varoufakis, the deposits outflows had already reached 20 billion and the international offices requested Greek hoteliers with a bankruptcy clause. Nevertheless, at the Riga Summit, Mr Tsipras gave assurances as usual, saying that the agreement is close. It was when you were laughing up to Mr. Juncker and making jokes about his tie. Except the truth behind these stirring ostents was another. Instead of an agreement, the government was working on a double currency plan and believed that it could threaten Europe by a referendum. The tragic result was the Capital Controls and the third unjustified Memorandum of EUR 86 billion signed by Mr Tsipras. It was a Memorandum that brought immediate pay cuts, increased taxation, and price reduction through VAT from fuel and food to transport and catering. Two years ago, Mr. Tsipras, in fact one day ago, on May 22, 2016, SYRIZA voted here the infamous prerequisites, i.e. the insurance-laundering of Mr. Katrugalos, the supreme public property for nine nine years, yes, what you are now advertising in your holistic plan, in short the SYRIZA – ANEL's “memorandum of plus”. And because the liar is not as well known, Mr. Tsipras once again confirmed that these are the last measures. Only one colleague, Mrs Vassilis Catrivanou, then had the dignity to resign. All the others voted to sit on your chairs. What followed, we know. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You are disturbed by the reminders of this historical truth. Isn't that right? You don't like these. You'll hear them again many times by the election. What followed is well known: segregation taxes and contributions, middle-class dissolution and of course marginalization of the weakest. All of this while SYRIZA had gone to the September 2015 elections with the Thessaloniki programme, if you remember well. A year ago, on May 23, 2017, as today again, the Government committed itself to Eurogroup for surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and of course for additional measures amounting to 5.1 billion in 2019 and 2020. I wonder, Mr. Tsipras. Why didn't you mention that in your speech? Why didn't you say a word about pension cuts and tax reductions? Because what you have signed is, in fact, a fourth memorandum, which has already drugged the country's course for several years now. And, of course, this time, Mr Tsipras played the countermeasure paper, but without admitting that this invention is the sole responsibility of the lenders. What's next? The launch of red loans, seizures and auctions. One in two Greeks owes the tax office today. Eight out of ten say they have great difficulty in meeting their obligations. And all this, of course, awaiting new pension cuts and the abolition of tax. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have another 23 May, a date that will be challenging the government, as it coincides with its disastrous choices, all based on obscene lies. And this strange coincidence proves, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the ANELs, that you don't change and you can't change either. Because you are now what you have always been: ruthless demagogues in words and hopelessly incompetent in practice! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For everyone now understands that, as true as the "scatching of the memorandum with an article" was in 2015, as the "no measure" of 2016, as the countermeasures applied in 2017, the other as true is the fairy tale of clean exit and return to growth. And I shall list you data, Mr Tsipras, which are not in dispute. Already the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission have again revised GDP and growth estimates, contrary to the rest of Europe. Negative surprise is characterized by the three years 2015-2017. You know, Mr. Tsipras, I like to speak with data, not with crowns and with total distortion of what I say. This nice table shows the rate of GDP change for the fourth quarter of 2017. He's the lowest in the Eurozone. Please give him to the Prime Minister. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This table shows the growth that the Greek economy had in relation to Portugal and Ireland between 2015 and 2017. Cyprus had 9.3% cumulative growth in three years, 6.1% cumulative growth had been achieved by Portugal and 0.9% cumulative growth in Greece over the three years. Congratulations, Mr. Tsipras. These are your achievements. That's why you're proud! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Give this to the Prime Minister, too, to inspire Mr. Tsakalotus who is swinging his head, I imagine not by questioning the evidence, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u15	Three years is a small sample.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u16	You celebrate and you're photographed next to Mr. Guria. However, you seem to have not read the contents of the OECD report that has given you. It is because there is a drop in productivity, which maintains low wages and working poverty. But to the unemployed, how are things really going? Only 4% find employment through the OAED. Just 12% of the unemployed get some help. As for public investments, which have a leading role in your development plan, the 2018 budget implementation report confirms your massive failure. And in the first half of 2018, despite the influx of the European Union, you are cutting already reduced expenditure by EUR 556 million. One simple example says it all: In 2014 the Commission predicted that the Greek national product at the end of 2018 would be EUR 217 billion, Mr Tsipras. Today, what is the prediction? It is EUR 183 billion, a little more - very little more - than you found at the end of 2014. Do you know what that means, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? It means 34 billion euros lost annually by your catastrophic policy, 8,220 euros for each family. So much for the Greeks, and this is just one aspect of your disastrous policy. Instead of putting money into the economy to get it forward, you're pulling money out of the market. The OECD comes and tells us that we have from the highest tax rates and the lowest - look out! - Analogous revenue. The result of your policy, what is it? Four out of ten Greeks now see tax evasion as a legitimate defence against excessive taxation. That is what you have achieved, Mr Tsipras, today. 70% of the free professionals say monthly income 750 euros, thus hiding under tax-free. At the same time, you are consciously destroying the middle class. And it is truly inconceivable to destroy you, especially those who are consistent taxpayers. Note: 42% of the personal income tax is paid by those who declare an income of over 42,000 euros and constitute 3% of the taxpayers. They pay 42% of the total income tax. You have managed to make the impossible, to get out even law-abiding citizens in every way in tax evasion, so that they do not feel the last fools of your incomprehensible policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to accept Mrs Gennamata's proposal for today's debate, not only because I have been given another opportunity to describe the misguided economic policy that you have followed in the past three and a half years nor to develop our own response, which is a study of an action plan for the recovery of the economy. I find the initiative you have taken very useful, Mrs Gennimata, as we are moving towards a critical crossroads for which neither the parties nor the citizens have sufficient information. For several months now, Mr Tsipras, your government has been discussing with your partners the most famous holistic development plan for the next day. You did so, of course, in secret, without consulting the social partners, without bringing it to the House, without any public consultation. And what was made public yesterday - I can assure you that I sat down last night and read it all out, I am not sure if you have read it in such detail - it is nothing more, in my view, from a vague wish, in which there are some unequivocal and correct reforms with several ideological obsessions and, above all, with many unforgivable generalities. And, of course, we have no idea whether this is really your plan, if it has been signed by the institutions, possibly incorporating their own priorities, because we do not know what the original text you sent to the Troika is. However, it is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that it does not, under any circumstances, constitute a concrete map of bold changes and reforms. It's a development plan without development. Not only did the vision miss - it sometimes gave me the impression that the author at some point had to write, that this text should only be written in order to fulfil a formal obligation - but there are missing policies that will bring jobs, improve income, produce wealth. But let's go see, Mr. Tsipras, not only what your development plan says, but above all what it does not tell us. At the end of August there is indeed an end to favourable European borrowing, but the tough measures remain. That is why it is very important that the next day be detected, that the true picture be assessed and that the new risks be revealed, because there are risks, both from what the government is baptising 'exiting' and from the many lines of the summer evaluation, tails that apparently open the window for additional commitments. Unfortunately, SYRIZA - ANEL are putting the country back into the boar of insecurity, as they again sink politics into the mud. I'm explaining. When a country, Mr Tsipras, stops borrowing at low interest rates from its partners and goes on to the markets, it must do so in favourable conditions, as Ireland, Cyprus and Portugal did. But you, as usual, go upstream. Are you relying on a stock, the most famous cash buffer of 18 billion euros, which came true? Of surpluses greater than they asked you to do, from new pensions, which you do not give from non-refundable debts, from stocks of operators who become repos, and from public investments that are not implemented. At the same time, important resources of EUR 28 billion from the third programme remain untapped, with very low interest rates, and the government with its sole responsibility has delayed the implementation of the programme, so it cannot raise these funds. And all this is baptized'safety pillow'. Except the next day - you know it very well - markets will be very strict if they locate any reform setbacks. And the lifesaving, which you say you have ensured, is at risk of being a hole in the seas of international markets. Where is it negotiating, Mr. Tsipras, the Greek ten-year bond? 4.5%. Where's the equivalent of Portugal? At 1,9%. Where's the seven years of Cyprus? Two-five percent. The exit into the market seems under the circumstances to be a stroll on a minefield, at your own risk. You've been running for three and a half years. You did not achieve the required de-escalation in the country's interest rates and credit enhancement, which will ensure us after August low lending costs. Not a word, of course, on all of this in the holistic development plan. Nor, of course, have you improved the image of public debt. I would remind you once again, Mr Tsipras, which of course does not refer to the holistic development plan, that the IMF estimated in 2014 that the debt is moving on a path of sustainability. Isn't that right, Mr. Chakalote? Am I wrong? I am not mistaken, because I have here the IMF's analyses which are clearly saying: 'It appeared that no future relief will have been need'. This is what the IMF said in 2014 about the Greek debt course, considering it will reach 60% in 2060. I present the IMF report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does the IMF say in the 2017 report? 'Greek debt is highly unsustainable', i.e. extremely unsustainable, I translate into Greek. The public debt is being launched in 195% of GDP and its funding needs are being financed at 45% of GDP. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not a word, of course, on all of this in the holistic development plan. And a few days ago you announced a technical agreement, which the Minister of Finance himself told us 'we had to put some water in our wine'. Isn't that what you said? Well, let us know today, Mr Chakalote, how much water you put into and what wine! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why? Because I suspect that new commitments are also hidden here which, as it seems, will find their place in the mechanism of increased supervision that will accompany us for several more years. Because the clean exit is Mr. Tsipra's new dirty lie. The memorandum does not end in August, it simply mutates and the country will become part of a new strict monitoring framework that significantly restricts the levels of our freedom, a monitoring framework that is different from what Ireland, Cyprus and Portugal joined. And, of course, the country will be called upon to implement additional financial measures of EUR 5.1 billion, which Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos have already voted for and have not even guaranteed any funding. That is why we are saying that from the financing without a memorandum, which you requested in 2015, we went to the memorandum without funding. You have already voted - we will say this again to hear and inspire it by our fellow citizens - the reduction of tax, the total abolition of the CSR and the new reduction in pensions. The demagogues, who promised the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, robbed the twelfth and will now also receive the eleventh pension from the pensioners. You have still not answered a question forty-six of our Members, which we ask you to finally give you details of the pension cuts you have made by the Katrugalou law. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, the bad news doesn't stop here. For the first time since 1-12020, the low wage of 600 euros will be called upon to pay an income tax, at the same time that two million fellow citizens owe us up to 500 euros to tax and are unable to pay or even regulate this amount. Already a million seizures have been recorded, and the auctions are keeping well. You have had a lot of talk about the minimum wage, but you have not said a word about the generation of 360 euros, which you have created, the part-time workers you are using, to prove that unemployment is falling, but of course, on the basis of unemployment, you have not counted, on the basis of the population that can be employed, the four hundred thousand of our fellow citizens who left the country in search of a better tomorrow. All of this, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is confessed to a sad performance for some who came to power as protectors of the weaker ones and eventually made the poor poorer and more. Ladies and gentlemen, today more than ever, our country needs a bold exit plan from the prolonged crisis, a crisis that has set us up in misery and decline. It's not time for either delights or promises without a reflection. Greece needs a development shock, which can only come from a large wave of private investment. And, yes, we need to reduce taxes and contributions. That's why I'm in the holistic plan. On the contrary, I understand that HNVIA will be kept where it is today, at EUR 2.65 billion, the same HNVIA that you said would be abolished by a law and an article! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Once tax is reduced, the tax rate has to be reduced to 9% for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 and profits in business have to be taxed at 20% rather than 29%. You're saying you're going to take it to 26%, so you're saying you're going to return the taxation where you found it. At 26% you found her, and you took her to 29%! Who are you kidding, Mr. Tsipras, finally? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is there even a reference in your plan to how taxation can be used as a development incentive for productive investment, especially in areas of knowledge-intensiveness, for how building will go back, what tax incentives can we give for home repairs, for environmental upgrades? None of this, of course, does exist in your plan. The country needs a double shock - trust and savings - which will trigger Greek entrepreneurship, with incentives to return money to banks, with radical capital recovery, such as those of the insurance system, with a one-off overall regulation of private debt and also a drastic simplification of the business environment. The battle with stateism, pluralism, bureaucracy is a battle that cannot be lost and Greece will take advantage of its unparalleled advantages, and will finally become a country that is friendly to the business community. Why is the dilemma of the next day, in fact, Mr Tsipras, very clear: who can create many well paid jobs? Who can improve the available income of the middle class? Who can produce wealth that will be distributed fairly to all? We want the Greeks to regain the fate of their lives and Greece to work again and nobody to stay back, and that is why we insist on a parallel protection net for the weakest. Yes, we want the guaranteed income to go to 1 billion for our eight hundred thousands of poor fellow citizens, a minimum guaranteed income, which I would remind you that we have legislated and you have fought in the first years of your government, so that we do not forget ourselves. We want children's stations and schools for every Greek. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why are you uncomfortable, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u17	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u18	You fought it. Of course, you fought the minimum guaranteed income for eighteen months until you had to adopt it under the pressure of the institutions. Of course, we have a great deal of emphasis on programmes which are not sufficient for the unemployed, especially young people, but which train them and lead them back to production. Our costly economic programme, however, is not the only response to the demands of the country, because it is not just the economy that requires a brake to be put into permanent retreat. It is the whole country that seeks a new environment with a new beginning. Reduction of taxes, investments, new jobs, which we are planning, want another atmosphere from that of lies, divisions and ruffles. They want institutions that work and justice that guarantee compliance with the rules. Development and creativity do not bloom with criminals in the neighborhoods, with hoods in the universities and with "Ruviks" in the sidewalks or offices. They want security above all, and the demand for security comes from all citizens, regardless of their ideological or political identity. They want rapid and effective administration, education that looks ahead and faces the challenges of the future, justice that is quickly awarded. And, of course, a country that raises a head, needs prestige, international cooperation and serious diplomacy, and not this embarrassment that still holds our two children in Turkey, or underground routes on the Skopje issue. You are obliged, Mr Tsipras, today, to place yourself officially before the National Representation and the Greek people for the unacceptable name 'Iliden Macedonia', which, as you said, you have said - and in public - you have discussed with your Skopje counterpart. So tell us clearly if you've already rejected it, or if you're still talking about it in secret. In other words, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, the Greeks are not just asking to judge what you are doing or not do so long, but to choose who will lead them with a plan and safely to the next day. They don't just want to punish those who failed. They want the right to hope, but not in the false hope of unbearable promises, but in the hope of truth, in the truth of hope. So, elections! Mrs. Gennamas, we won't argue if the elections have to be held in one, two, three months. After all, we have been calling for the elections for two years! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are talking about elections in which projects will be dealt with in the face of words, documented and costed programmes against the aerial aerialities of the development plans, elections in which security will be measured against fear, confidence and optimism against populism and decline. This time, of course, I do not see you calling for the support of Mr Iglesias' Pole. He'll probably enjoy his swimming pool and he won't have much time to give you back to your election campaign! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will close - and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - by saying this: for once, Mr Chiracra, at last do the right thing! You agree with me, we all agree, that democracy has no dead ends and the polling on its own is a cleansing. So give the Greek people the opportunity to take a stand. Do not commit him for years to a few more months - because so many are - in power and above all, do not undermine our democratic conquests in a desperate attempt to limit your crash. The Greek people are wise and I am convinced that the experience of the last eight years has made him even wiser. Trust his judgment, respect his verdict. Let him exercise his democratic right, because that's what he deserves in the country. We deserve better and soon the Greek people will prove it in the ballots.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u19	I call on the Stepma to take the floor on the Minister of Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos. Mr Tsakalotou's prology and dentistry will be uniform, as I told you at the beginning of the sitting, because he will then leave to leave for Brussels. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. We welcome the debate today, because it is a very good opportunity and a time to discuss seriously. The technical agreement ended a few days ago and we have a month for the prerequisites. The debt debate is continuing, it has almost ended and we know how memorial monitoring will be of quality with Article 472. I am tempted to answer Mrs Gennimata and Mr Mitsotakis, but I think that the Greek people deserve better and deserve to hear what Mrs Gennimata is asking for, to have a debate on the future. So, you will forgive me, but I will not respond to what Mr Mitsotakis said, such as that productivity has decreased, and he should know that it is a cyclical phenomenon related to the recession. I will not explain to him that the Thessaloniki Programme was for the January 2015 elections and not September. I will not explain to him what the Commission is doing, what growth would be and where GDP would be achieved. I could do it myself since 2010 with the IMF forecasts. I will not explain to him that the interest rate in Greece has been somewhat limited in the last week and from the discussions of Trump with Europeans and from the phenomenon in Italy. I will not discuss with him again all of what we have said thousands of times, such as 'the third memorandum', 'it is no worse', 'not you have done'. I think people have heard these arguments. He's heard it, he knows it, and he'll make his decisions. What was expected here was to say whether we or you have a better strategy for the future, whether there are compositions or if there are no compositions and what we can do. I won't even say about Mrs. Gennamas now, and about her ten I blame her for being Zola's abuse for them and those with limited literary ingratitude. I'm not going into that lump. But let me tell you that as I read Mrs Gennamata's application, which, I think, was three pages, I read at the same time the book of Vasilis Vasilikos for Glaucos Thrassakis, which I propose to everyone and everyone. So he had an image for those who are isolated. In particular, he showed a light in a neighborhood that has become folk and goes yellow, green, red, yellow, green, red, orange, green, red. They pass the cars, they don't pass. People pass, they don't have to stop. They see it, they don't see it. It reminds them of something. They don't affect anything. So he reminded me of the PASOK and the Change Movement that they are going through, things are done, discussions are made, proposals are made "red, green, orange", "red, green, orange" and they don't get hampered. Neither can they affect, nor do we know what they want to do. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's sad. Why is it sad? I invite you to read Muhnau's article at the "FINANCIAL TIMES", by Wolfgang Muhnau, nothing to do with the other Volfgang! So I invite you to read his article at the FINANCIAL TIMES on Monday, where he says, on the basis of the events of Italy, that history proves that these liberal democracies which cannot meet the needs of the world, the work and the middle classes, at some point, if we do not do something, cease to be liberal democracies. And, therefore, the challenge we have to discuss seriously for the future is very great. The bet's too big. When the risk is so great, we cannot just look back and say 'fet, blame', 'not you', 'no, it's your fault even more'. And we have a constant flow of information on the economy, we have continuous developments, as to what the world says about Greece and continuous developments about what we are doing and what we are continuing to do. Just say a little about the good news. I told the budget ten good news. After some time, in February, I had said another ten good news. Now let me tell you a few more good news and the consequences of these news. I'll only tell you the new ones from my speech, February. You should accumulate that with what I said to February and what I said in the budget. I begin with "ERGANI" and start from there because there is the question from the Change Movement, which is supposed to have three pillars: work, the redistribution of income and the welfare state, the social state, which we put to them and the ECJ. And I'm going to talk about the CEC and what we're doing about the superstition. From the 'ERGANI' elements we know that we have a positive recruitment balance in April by 100 000 jobs. This is the highest performance of a month not only in April, but since we have had data, that is at least seventeen years. 55% are full-time jobs. The record service since we have had data has been the positive balance of 50 000 jobs in January - April. The rate of undeclared work in the high-risk industries has fallen steadily from 19.17% in 2014 to 12.58% in the first quarter of 2018, according to the APR. Immediately foreign investments, which I think you consider to be the most important. The net influx of foreign direct investment in 2017 was 3.6 billion, showing an increase of 27.6% compared to 2016, the highest percentage of the last decade, not of the three-year period. In the General Commercial Register we read that in the first quarter of 2018 four thousand two hundred eighty-two more companies were opened than they closed. New companies increased by 17%, while those who stopped running decreased by 44% compared to the first quarter of 2017. Exports, the total value of exports in the quarter increased to 13.6%. The trade balance deficit in the quarter decreased by 17.9%. Improving expectations, the business expectations index in industry by IOBE was formed at 103.4 as against 98.4 points last year. There is an increase in individual indicators in almost all sectors of the economy, as well as in consumer confidence. And I could say a lot of other things. That's not what we're talking about, to say that everything is fine, that the world is not suffering. We know where we are going, but we are seeing a trend and we would like to have a debate on this. This trend could be better, but at last on this trend to discuss and look at the results of this. Because not only did it not happen what all the newspapers who support you, which the Prime Minister said about the cutter, not only came here to the IMF and the other institutions and did not ask for and it did not come up in the direction of tax-free entry, but precisely because the figures are what they are, we also have additional financial space. Not only did the catastrophe occur that we will have less than we had, but also from this financial area, we have decided that a piece should go to the job-retirement ratio, to go one by one by one now. Really, the PASOK, the Change Movement, is it with us in it or with New Democracy? It's a reasonable question. Do we want a public sector where there will be several doctors and teachers and teachers? Do we want to get away from the question of teachers who are not permanent? Make a decision, let's know that, too. The other part is for health. There will be 100 million for health every year in addition. And that doesn't exhaust the space we have. And we could discuss what we need here. Is education a priority, is health a priority? Let's talk about it. This debate we had to have. And when I read Mrs. Gennama's text, that's what I thought she wanted. The truth is, we know we're leaving the program. And that's why we're saying we have a development agenda. We know - I don't know what you don't know - that we're negotiating with the institutions. Don't you know that we're negotiating an enhanced monitoring and not a preventive credit line? Don't you know that on this preventive credit line there would also be a programme? And here there is no programme, no prerequisites, no funding? Isn't that right? Why should we continue to have this debate and not go ahead? But let's go to development, to our core core that would be different. And here the Change Movement must be placed. You see, I'm correcting what Mrs. Gennimata said, that Mr. Tsipras is attacking the New Democracy unilaterally, so you don't feel bad. Is it true that the world of work should be in the center of development? And you know how we mark it in this plan? It is not a development plan that says that growth will come with these bodies, with these financial instruments and other provisions it is for society. Oh, no. When you read it, you will see that the work is at the heart of our development strategy, both for collective agreements and for the minimum wage and for the fight against undeclared work. These go into the part where growth is. It is not a 'conception': when the pie grows, then there will be a world of work. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Do you have a position in this debate? Because there's a conversation going on worldwide. There are those who say that the pie first grows, and then we share it, and there are others who say they go together. There's no growing up on the pie and then sharing it. It's an ideological controversy. You ask that question. Do you have an answer to that? Do you have an answer when you say we can go with New Democracy and we can go with SYRIZA with the elections? So, you're both gonna be together? And in the opinion that the pie should grow and then divide it, but also in the view that the pie should grow and divide it together? How is that possible? So let me see what you're saying. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Then let's go to the development plan. It is true that the development plan has commitments. Because we're not cobblers. We want to be reliable. We did not want to present what you say: a report of ideas, get out of the memorandum in August, and suddenly in October the Minister for Labour announced the increase in the minimum wage. We say what we want to do so that everyone knows: you and the Europeans and the Member States - and the markets. Others will like more, others will like less. But you'll all know. That is what self-commitment means. Self-commitment is to record a course where everyone knows about what will happen. Of course, with this development plan, we will also have ideas, and we will also have proposals. In any case, it is the result of the regional conferences. And we have heard institutions like the ESC. We have already taken into account society, because when we say that growth is for many, it is not just as a result, as objects, but also as subjects who contribute to our development policy. And, of course, there are things we have done, reforms that we have done, reforms that are under way and that we will continue in three areas. Two of them, in fact, have also been mentioned by Mrs Gennamata. Firstly, in the area of justice, which is one pillar, justice must be quicker, secondly, bureaucracy and, thirdly, in the business environment that has become a great deal of work and will continue to have more work. But why is this plan different? What does it mean when we say it's holistic, that it comes out of Gestalt's theory, that the whole is more than the sum of the parts? In two ways: first, because it creates for the first time institutions capable of collective thinking. In the eight years of Mr Simitis, when we started entering EMU, but then EMU, and we began to lose competitiveness, and there was de-industrialisation, there was not this collective thinking, the possibility of collective response to problems. The economists saw and noticed that something is wrong, that it cannot be the development model only in cheap money and in big projects, that deindustrialization wants specific policies. This collective thinking that you put on various institutions and various bodies and various subjects to discuss is dominant in this development plan. You'll read it and you'll see it. The second way in which the project is holistic is because things somehow have to tie up. Of course, there must be major projects and networks and large investments. But how do these relate to a country with a majority of small and medium-sized enterprises? It gives answers to this development plan, as it gives answers where funding will be so that, when a project is made, it can be linked to local producers who will also offer products for the local society to live. That is what we mean as a holistic plan. And I'll explain to you why I blame the Change Movement and the PASOK that they're behind, green, orange, red. Have you read what the strategic plan of the Supreme Court says? He has a strategic plan that the Minister for Finance does, which must take into account the fund and bring their proposals for the restructuring of business. Have you seen it? And then, on another level, there are coordination mechanisms with the ministries that are overseeing. So you're still talking about the ninety-nine years we've put together, we've promised, and you don't see the changes that have been made. You're forgetting that at the H.I.E.L.D. you to get a loan, you said we'd sell it. You do not see that now there is an excess, which aims to restructure businesses. This will help the Greek economy in many ways. He'll get these businesses to be able to stand on their feet, to be able to produce new services, to get into the circuit of the new technology. That's the plan, within the strategic plan it has for the superstition. Will you continue to have no opinion on the ECJ? What do you want to tell us? That it was very good to supervise the CECE and that before 2008-2009 there was a strategic plan for the CECE to upgrade and that they also had an important role? Didn't you forget about the TEC? Wasn't there a client system in the CECE? And here I see some particular people you put in the C.E.L.D. Or am I the only one who knows that? Can you tell us your opinion of the strategic plan for the fund? Is that what we want? Will it help the consumer? Is he gonna help the workers? Is it gonna help the economy? I've been waiting for this conversation. You may have an excuse - and you rightly have the excuse - that you have been late to see the holistic development plan, but you do not have the same excuse for the strategic plan of the surplus fund. Because this strategic plan, precisely what it wants to do with the ECJs and the way they are upgraded, without any obligation to sell them, is there and you can see it and make comments. It could be better. I heard a comment from Mrs Gennamas who needs thought. That would be a conversation. Instead, what do we have? "We absolutely must go to the elections" and you are fighting. I think they accused you of being too modest. That's what I understood. But you'll find this between you two. So you want us to go to elections now. So the PASOK and the New Democracy did not ask anyone when they created the debt, the PASOK did not ask anyone when they brought the IMF and did not ask anyone about the first Memorandum, the PASOK and the New Democracy did not ask anyone when they signed the second Memorandum, the PASOK did not ask anyone when in 2011 they signed surpluses over 6% for 2014, the PASOK and the New Democracy did not ask anyone when in the second quarter of 2014 PASOK did not ask anyone when the funds were empty and they did not close the second programme, in order to undermine the next government, hoping to 'left parentheses' and now the PASOK and the New Democracy tell us that we are not legalised to get the country out of the memorandum that you have put it back, to regulate the debt you have created, to raise the minimum wages that you have reduced, to reintroduced the collective negotiations? Is that what you're telling us? That we don't have legalization? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And finally, I would like to refer to Mrs Gennamas and PASOK, and I am not talking about the whole Change Movement. You're weak, because you don't know what you think. This is your great weakness. You don't know what you think. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We know what we think. It's not just that, it's not just a win because you know what you think. You have to do other things, you have to listen, you have to think, you have to put water on your wine, but it's a necessary condition to know what one thinks. And a force that says "I don't care. I will see after the elections if I go from here or there," he does not know what he thinks and that will continue to be your weakness!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u21	The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Central Commission and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u22	The government plan for strategic development for the future, which you made public yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is revealing what the Greek people have to expect the next day. The three main axes of this plan are, firstly, for tax policy. Promise that you will reduce corporate taxation to attract investment and increase their profitability. What different, really, are you saying from the New Democracy programme? You will, in fact, be even more burdening the people's strata to shield the competitiveness of different monopolistic groups. That is why you are not committed anywhere to reducing indirect taxation and you are not talking about the people's tax burden and the ENPI. The declaration on the extension of the tax base and the fight against tax evasion from the moment the freedom of movement of capital and the various secrets remains, is, in fact, preparing for a new tax raid on self-employed workers, on free trade. Secondly, on the labour market. The proclamation of more and better jobs is a wish without any real objection, since you do not intend to abolish any Memorandum Law than those that have led to the ever greater liberalisation of the labour market, the demolition of complex labour and insurance rights. Besides, any changes in the labour market you tell us that they should take into account the impact on growth, productivity and competitiveness, that is, what you always do. In this reasoning, which proposes capitalist profitability, the government sees and the redefinition of the minimum wage, which will, of course, be combined with the compression of the average wage. The Government also clearly commits that facilitating the return to the labour market goes through further support for the various projects offering cheap labour to groups with programmes through OADs. Thirdly, the famous social orientation of government policy is exhausted in the initiatives of social entrepreneurship and cooperative projects. The truth is that the notorious social and solidarity economy is already being exploited by your state as a mechanism to reduce social security benefits by transferring the responsibility of a number of activities to it, leading to further trade, to privatization of these services, which, of course, are paid only by the people. It is valued as a mechanism for completely temporary deportation and mocking our people, covering up great unemployment with hunger wages. It works as an additional lever of worsening working relationships and further increase the degree of exploitation with the so-called, otherwise infamous, 'voluntary work' - we put it in introductory terms, because other things are the real voluntary work and assistance and solidarity that workers can give - that is, with extended hours, the low wages of workers in it, in the name of the social character of these activities. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is particularly revealing. It shows how far the convergence of urban parties has gone on in the capital strategy - the three main parties have already spoken - which constantly calls for sacrifices from the people to stabilise the recovery of their profits. This deep agreement to continue the anti-grass attack to shield the competitiveness of monopolies, both trying to hide SYRIZA and New Democracy and PASOK, which was renamed the Change Movement, with election, the climate of artificial polarization and Scandalism. And lately we have the attack on Boutaris. There is no doubt that this is an unacceptable event, an unambiguous attack on the Mayor of Thessaloniki, which we have denounced since the first moment, and this position we have also taken on a firm footing with the Municipality Council of Thessaloniki and Athens and everywhere where the subject arises. And that, in our view, has had to be the case, but that's as far as we're concerned. This sentence may not be accompanied by the ‘a’ or ‘b’ views or positions of that mayor, if we agree or disagree, and this may be a criterion. Nor can we make use of the announcement of condemnation, condemnation of this unacceptable event, to put our views from the door on the so-called democracy that each one of you believes, "for the extremes", even to make unscrupulous comparisons with the peace hero Gregory Lambraki and go by saying. Much more cannot take advantage of this fact, for a set-up bipartite fight than what you have used to us. We have also seen this from the side of the New Democracy and from the side of the Prime Minister, SYRIZA, the ANELs. And we're talking about a structured two-party game, not talking about the third memorial you've all voted for together. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the government, be serious at one time, because the Prime Minister may say that he is incubating the spike egg, but a few months ago SYRIZA's government MPs and Mr. Kammenos, the co-pilot, with the evangelizer Cassidy, took a picture of murder. Kastelorizo. These are results and snakes you incubate. Three and a half years you are now in governance, and it lasts, of course, and without end, the Nazis' trial, at the time you had to end the the theories of the two ends, the "we condemn violence", generally and abstractly, wherever other things come from, that give an alibi to the monsters of Naziism. Because it has nothing to do with claiming the right of the working people, for example the strike, the class struggle, which sometimes takes stronger, more upward forms, with terrorist, fascist, racist violence, with the provocative anti-semitists, various anarchists, to tell them so, or with the violence of the state mechanisms of repression. Of course you don't get enough of this, you're over it. We now have the debate on the famous 'national negotiating line' with lenders. All of us here hide that, on the one hand, the so-called lenders, the European Union, the IMF and the Greek urban order of capitalists are walking hand and, on the other hand, they have a common interest in continuing to dismantle the working people, the popular strata, like all the other Member States, not only Greece but all the countries of the European Union. All of you, we say, went bankrupt with the New Democracy and the PASOK, Mr Tsipras, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. So you can't take your tail out. You are all hiding that the infamous negotiation is not being conducted in order to ensure popular prosperity but in order to create an appropriate compromise for interests between competitive urban classes. There can be no national negotiating line, because there are actually two Greeks with opposite interests. There is Greece of the great capital and Greece, on the other hand, of the working class, of our people. This is the truth that the government propaganda, Mr Tsipras' story, which talks about the country's net exit from the lenders' commission and the opportunity that will arise for the purpose of philolosophical social policy from the continued recovery of capitalist profitability and the favourable regulation of state debt. It really needs a great deal of political courage to talk about the end of the committee, when everyone knows that Greece is, on the one hand, subject to the strict rules in force in all the Member States of the European Union, about the restrictions on budgetary policy and, on the other, it is well known that there is a process of enhanced supervision on specific terms for the Member States that have borrowed by the European Support Facility. It makes no sense to mention in detail the known procedures, such as the European semester, namely the monitoring of the drafting and implementation of the single budget of each State, and the declarations of all the relevant players on the expected strict framework of the European Union's memorandum of supervision. What matters to understand, however, is that even if there were not all these strict procedures, they are the same objectives of the domestic ruling class, which require that workers continue to undone, that cheap labour should be extended, that state spending on social policy should be cut down to recover and increase their own profitability. Let's leave the lenders for a while, and let's see what BSE is asking here in Greece for the next period. Of the most official lips, BSE calls for a new reduction in the so-called non-wage cost, and it states that no kind of retreat should be made to the anti-virtual, legislative framework that has been launched in the previous period. Calls for new, diverse state support for capitalist profitability, reducing taxation for large businesses, reducing energy costs, providing investment incentives and cheaper lending for entrepreneurs. It calls for new regulations to facilitate the licensing and placement of big business. In this direction, the current SYRIZA government has already committed itself to the hundreds of laws and measures that it has adopted and which will be implemented in the coming years, as well as the agreement that is preparing to conclude, on the anti-popular policy that will continue. What needs to be understood is that the policy of the memorandum is not a Greek originality that escapes from this other notorious European regularity. It has, in fact, specified the European Union's policy, which deepens the exploitation of workers to shield only the competitiveness of the groups in the European Union, which is why it applies in all the Member States of the Union. That is why in Portugal too, you have it and you advertise it that came out of the memorandum at any rate, 70% of the pensioners and get a pension under 450 euros. That is why in France, which has no troika and quartet, there is no memorandum, sectoral collective agreements are undermined and redundancies are released. This truth is trying to hide the fair development tale, which will benefit both the perpetrators and the victims of capitalist exploitation at the same time. That is why we are talking about the political courage of Mr Tsipras, who, as far as we approach the elections, dares to talk about the need to strengthen workers' negotiating power, while even having voted to undermine the right to strike. The greatest practical demonstration of the convergence strategy of the different parties is the continuous transformations of the PASOK into titles and programmes, which ensure that it can collide with both SYRIZA and New Democracy. Of course, this is not a very special Greek phenomenon, as long as we take a look at Germany and other European countries. The anti-popular history of European social democracy is particularly teaching for all. In order to understand today's political conflict better and deeper, however, we also need to start with the international economy and Greece. The international economy, the capitalist economy, seems to be entering a new recovery phase. Global gross product increased by 3.8% in 2017 with a significant increase in world trade. In the European Union, in the euro area, GDP has risen by 2.4% and is the largest increase in the last decade. But the intrinsic problem of capitalism in the world remains. The size of the over-accumulated capital internationally has acquired record dimensions. A huge amount of capital can't find a profitable investment way out. The profit rate remains extremely low. The size of interest rates throughout the world bears witness to the truth. At the same time, the total government debt at global economic level remains in the dimensions of avalanche. The possibility of a new capitalist crisis going deeper and more synchronised is threatening capitalist development, thus increasing the possibility of dangerous plans being adopted as an alternative to the system for a more generalised imperialist war. The Greek capitalist economy went through a recovery phase. GDP in 2017 ended with a positive growth rate of 1.4%, although below the projection of 1.6%. It is expected to be positive for both 2018 and 2019. Of course the government hides that this weak, perhaps even unstable recovery or development as you say it, is and will also be painted with new sacrifices of workers and retired people. Today, you as a government and otherwise your urban counterpopulation will try as long as you can cover the real anti-popular goals of the ruling class in this new phase in which the economy enters. Ladies and gentlemen, the uncertainty of global development, the BREXIT and the exacerbation of the conflicts in the European Union, the escalating trade war in the United States and their consequences in the domestic economy make a medium-term growth precarious. And the domestic bourgeoisie is part of the competition. This is reflected in its aim of creating a favourable framework for attracting investment and the objective of a genuine geopolitical upgrading of the country. And since we want to speak with examples, it is worth seeing what restructuring your friends are calling for through the President of BSE. So the BSE crisis has explained to us the need to become an investment boom in the Greek economy, to attract new investments of several billion euros over the next few years. It has explained to us which areas it considers appropriate to make this investment leap, but above all it has focused on the reforms that need to be carried out so that all this can be done. The hesitant Greek investors must feel safer in Greece and, in order to do this, BSE has already indicated what to do. Of course, the BSE suggestions for the necessary anti-grass reforms are covered in a very wicked language, as always. But their contents are so clear that no one can really cover it. So let us see what BSE is asking for and what BSE means by developing the objectives of the reform programme that big companies need. Bovine spongiform encephalopathies are also being used as a means of preventing the spread of the disease. What does he mean? Basically, the need to maintain the entire anti-legislative framework that has been launched during the crisis. BSE refers to the need to reduce so-called non-wage costs. What does he mean? It refers to the reduction of employers' contributions, the reduction of allowances, the reduction of pensions. The BSE crisis is talking about reducing energy costs for businesses. And how can this be done, at the same time as your policy by increasing the share of renewable energy sources leads to a surge in electricity production costs rather than by shifting this burden to the popular layers? Do you see any other way? Your BSE friends are talking about investment incentives in business. What else do they mean by means of new development laws that fuel tens of billions of euros the profitability of groups, mainly resulting from tax raids on employees and pensioners? Mr. Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the demands of BSE are not a simple blessing to the bourgeoisie. You're doing your job very well, which has of course become your job. You have already committed yourself, that you will reduce pensions further in the next period, as requested by BSE. You have already committed yourself, that you will increase the tax on employees and self-employed professionals, to create greater surpluses, so that you can fund businesses, as requested by BSE. You are aggressingly pushing the privatisations to get the big investments, as the BSE demandes. You are preparing changes in state interventions to serve more effectively and with fewer stumbling blocks, as the BSE demandes. You have committed yourself to monstrous primary surpluses for decades, which will come from the workers' pockets. You're trying to convince the workers that memorial regularity will be different from their miserable present. You're lying to them. The measures of the first eighteen memorandum months are already adopted. New taxes that reach up to 500 euros the head. New active pension cut, followed by the following. You have dissolved PPC in order to facilitate private investment and speed up the liberalisation of energy. You have set yourself as your task to convince the workers that by the end of the memoranda the regularity will return, that things will get better. Who are you kidding? Surely you can no longer make fun of the Greek people. You cannot hide that, for example, your science friend McCron in France, at the heart of Europe's normality, dismantles labour relations, abolishes trade union representation, reduces the taxation of large enterprises. The policy of the cheapest labour force in support of capital profitability in the aged capitalist world is common throughout the European Union. All over the European Union, the retirement thresholds are increasing and moving forward towards an aggressive slaughter of rights. Some conquests for working women have also been levelled in the name of equality. Nor can you hide that your European regularity is plagued by escalating contradictions that directly threaten not only cohesion but even the very existence of the European Union. Unequal growth within the European Union is the opening of the lane between German, French and Italian groups - to focus on some larger economies - leading to a disparity of interests between them. France and Germany are colluding for the future of the European Union and the nature it will have. In Italy, the debate on the future of the euro has returned to the news, while in general the European Union is divided into individual groups, with special interests, the 'North', the 'Visegrad Group', France, which often cannot agree to each other except in the elementary. These oppositions have a catalyst for geopolitical opposition, the trade war which the United States of America has waged against China and Russia and the US's attempt to influence the European Union. Of course you are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the measures with which you are ‘friendly’ to workers without stopping have a dramatic effect. You've been kicking the workers, the populace. Despite your ambitious efforts to cover it up, unemployment is plagued by popular strata. Its actual rate remains much above your advertised 20% if you calculate flexible employment relationships, part-time work, a few hours a week's work. As much as you are trying to hide it, over your days you have achieved over 50% of the new recruitments for parttime and rotating work. At the same time, only 10% of unemployed are entitled to unemployment benefit. You must feel proud, Mr. Tsipras, gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL. The 'first time on the left' breaks our people. Even with ELSTAT's data, the poor are more than two million thousand, while in extreme poverty they live almost half a million people. The tax-payer you've orchestrated has led half the people to owe tax and the number of forced recovery measures to more than a million. Large companies paid a low, symbolic sum, less than EUR 2 billion, that is less than 5% of government revenue. You must be proud to advertise the monstrous surpluses that have come because you are depriving the unemployed of the unemployment benefit. You're robbing the workers, reducing all social costs. But not everyone loses your policy. Large businesses continue to be systematically strengthened. Your period of governance is typical. The development law you've introduced is causing. You support capital with new tax exemptions and aids, special provisions on rapid licensing, with particular emphasis on exporting enterprises, in the priority areas for large capital. The level of taxes paid by legal persons is reduced, despite the fact that they already give literally crustaceans. Auctions take the form of an avalanche. And they may in most cases relate to debts and loans to banks, but the municipalities have been able to make out in the hammer real estate and movable assets related to workers, people's families, debts arising even from a call from the Municipal Police. The elements of the Municipality of Patras are characteristic. A total of forty-four thousand Patricks owe the municipality 120,000,000 euros. 55.5 million owes them only two hundred four big businessmen with debts of more than EUR 50,000 and the rest of the others together, that is more than a hundred forty - three thousand. Of these two hundred four businessmen who owe the municipality - they owe more than EUR 50 000 each - little can be collected. What for? Because they are anonymous corporations, which are shielded by the laws in force, have shut down their businesses and therefore you can't get anything. The anonymous companies are dying, but the owners there live and reign, as Mayor Patras denounces. The one left unprotected is the one who doesn't have. That is what we are saying that they must be protected by deleting debts or by facilitating their repayment over time especially for long-term unemployed people in the CRL. The JRC is tabling a legislative amendment on this issue and it concerns the inhabitants not only of Patras but of all the country and of all the municipalities. Here, then, is Rhodes, gentlemen of the government and of the counterpopulation, and let go of the big words. Your policy, gentlemen of the government, is not accidental. Move on the tracks required by the groups to ensure profitability. That is why the New Democracy and the Change Movement are not entitled to criticise you. It is no coincidence that you are struggling with the New Democracy today in order to find real differences in what you are proposing. The policy of cheap labour force, the support of capital with tax exemptions, the reductions in rates, the promotion of privatisations, the so-called state modernisation and prudent financial management is your common place with New Democracy. It is no coincidence that the political bosses in the BSE, SYRIZA and New Democracy are grouping you together. They talk about Tsipras and Mitsotakis and talk about wise politicians. Government and urban counter-population are the two sides of the same anti-population currency and the so-called reformed PASOK, the Change Movement, in a way that confirms with today's pre-dated discussion that he has asked for. He admits that he also discusses his role as a government crutch, with his positions objectively, either with SYRIZA or with New Democracy. He testifies to the strategic conclusion of these parties for the interests of capital, for the geopolitical upgrading of the country. The government is, of course, currently taking on the role of a flagship in NATO. It turns the country into a huge base of the United States, the Atlantic imperialist alliance, from Alexandroupolis and Larissa to Araxos and Souda. I would like to say here that the information published today by the 'RIZOPASTI' that on 17 May he visited the Araxos air base, Fred Fredrikson Head of NATO's nuclear policy and firmly defender of the infamous naval doctrine of the first nuclear blow. I would remind you of the complaints we have made and from this step back in the past that the upgrading work at the Araxos base is referring to a hosting of special weapons even nuclear weapons. But even if this visit was just a routine visit, as it spread, a planned inspection, it is confirmed that Greece over SYRIZA - ANLE remains an integral party of the most dangerous projects of the United States of America and NATO, such as its nuclear strategy. In addition, not only are there facilities in which nuclear weapons could be stored but also often - very densely, as the "RIZOPASTI" has revealed - exercises are carried out on the basis of corresponding items, while despite what is said, it seems that in a number of infrastructures of the Greek Armed Forces throughout the country, occasionally, nuclear weapons have been stored in the United States, with the Greek Armed Forces taking up security or assistance missions elsewhere. That is why we say that the government's policy puts you people at the forefront of major competitions in the event of a major race in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, precisely because your concentration on the main issues, on the objectives of great capital is given, it is expressed, you are all looking for individual disorientation moves to diversify you, to highlight the call line 'progress - maintenance', 'new - old', 'destruct - incorrupt - incorruptible' and it is not assembled. Your proposals have nothing good anymore, nothing new to the Greek people, and the closer you get to the elections, the stronger the tone, the promotional spots, the ridiculous coconut battles, the election promises without any opposition. That's why you're confused about the fox and the hangers, Mr. Tsipras. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, have been rounded to the chair of power in recent years and you do not want to be moved from it, you are born to it. The others, the New Democracy and the PASOK, have had a withdrawal syndrome since their absence from this chair. "One face, one race" you are. You have no alternative. Your proposals are within the walls of this barbarity of the system, in the service of a class that has everything and exploits the Greek people, in the service of your international allies, who unravel our people for their own interests and will lead them to the slaughterhouse unfortunately of the war, as they have done many times in the past. The alternative lies only in creating the conditions for the working class to come to power, but in reality. Greece has rich production sources, has huge growth of science, technology, concentrated production instruments, numerous, experienced technician, scientific workforce, agricultural production capacity, coverage of all modern folk needs with socialized, of course, production, with a centralized scientific plan of the economy, services. So only it can really walk along the path of friendship, solidarity, cooperation with all the peoples of the region, Europe, the world, with peace and prosperity for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u23	The President of the Parliamentary Group from Potami Mr Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u24	I'll start with what happened Saturday in the shadow of the White Tower. The video and what Yiannis Boutaris told me in Thessaloniki testify that there was a leader, a "black leader" and central coordination. The goal would be Boutaris or another "national traitor" who dared to show up at the Pontius celebration. I read: "Nimic gets money from Soros and another here, our neighbor, who knows him better than anyone and didn't want you to be here, the Mayor." That was said a few months ago by retired Francis, with the crowd shouting under "Bood drunk, Skopje seller" and no politician from the four parties - and I don't count Golden Dawn - who participated with some of their members in the gathering did feel the need to get up. Despite our public call the next day to separate their position from all of these abusive slogans about democracy, no one dared to take a position unless, friends and democratic friends progressively, we see the phrase as normal, with which the rally was closed at that time. Do you remember her? "Have the Army! Long live Special Forces! The politicians will find us in front of them!" with what that means. So we're not clove-eaters. Police and justice are hoping to find the perpetrators. But the moralists know them and we dare and reveal them. This climate of division wants to sustain some in Macedonia and earn when money, when votes. Here's the question: will we do them a favor? Are we going to retreat once again to this climate that they are trying to create? I want to be clear. We call on the government to clarify what it wants. Does he believe in a solution, or does he just do communication games, assuming he can corner the Opposition? With amateurisms and relics you don't make national politics. We say that a solution must be found with the European Union seal and with respect for the line that has been supported since 1992 and Constantine Mitsotakis. With Gligorov we then lost a great opportunity, because some in Greece would then build careers and sabotage whatever solution. So if Zafe dare - I say this because there are some calls to the Greek side - we should not miss the opportunity. One says: 'Is it reasonable for opposition to facilitate the work of a bad government by voting in favour of legislation with which it agrees?' The question recently put it in writing by Professor Thanasis Diamantopoulos, a liberal intellectual. And he answers: 'Yes, when it is extremely doubtful whether there will be conditions for resolving this particular problem again in the future'. So will we also have a Prime Minister Zafe in the future? That is what we must all ask ourselves and do accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, while I was in the City Hall of Thessaloniki, it was the Prime Minister's speech to the Minister's Council. I think Mr. Tsipras has lost a great opportunity to clarify his accounts by force. In other words, to condemn fascist violence - easy - but also to condemn the violence on the left as supposedly left dresses. The violence with the barbers, the violence in the universities, the violence in the neighborhoods of the Exarches. The violence of supposedly indignant people who left to burn at the Stadium. The violence of those who are stifling, threatening and chasing political opponents. Mr. Tsipras didn't do it, he didn't dare. If, therefore, he wants to contribute to political dialogue in terms of normality, he must end with his rhetoric hate at the time that he left open wounds in Greek society. However, let's also go to the important issue raised by Mrs Fofi Gennimata, the President of the Change Movement. We're going to development. Just before the start of the meeting I got an e-mail from a friend who maintains a commercial business at the Academy. I had been through his shop recently, I found him in despair and he said: "Instead of telling you, I'll write to you." So he sent me an e-mail. "Dear Stavros, by making a set of invoices in 2017, I noticed that 1/3 of my suppliers either closed their company in Greece and now attempting abroad, or swallowed them by the "Mom" abroad, which now sells directly to Greece, without its involvement in the Greek madhouse." "To tell you differently" - writes friend from the Academy - "most companies either emigrate to Bulgaria and Cyprus, or grant their activities to their mother companies in Germany and the Netherlands. I'm telling you, in detail, the companies that changed Rotto to save themselves." There is a detailed list of dozens of companies and their new headquarters. Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Germany, Germany, Germany, Cyprus, Cyprus and now and then Italy, the Netherlands, Romania, Turkey. And why are they leaving? Whether lower taxes or lower employers' contributions, either simple and stable fiscal and insurance frameworks and, of course, always free movement of capital, easy banking and facilitating participation in Community programmes in most countries. If, then, there was a driver of business escape, he would be entitled "Select where you want to escape". Albania 15% tax, 20% VAT, Bulgaria 10% VAT, 20% VAT, Cyprus 12.5% tax, 19% VAT, Hungary 10% tax, 27% VAT, Ireland 12.5% tax, 23% VAT, Romania 16% tax, 20% VAT, Serbia 15% tax, 20% VAT, Skopje 10% tax, 18% VAT. In other words, in order not to read it all - in the small and medium-sized countries of Europe, we have an average tax of 14% and 19% VAT in the large countries, in the strong...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u25	But they don't have any growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u26	Allow me, Mr President. You will also see those who have growth. In the most powerful countries we have on average what? 26% and 20% VAT. Again higher than us and the two elements. UK 20% tax. 20% VAT, Turkey 20% VAT, 18% VAT, Netherlands 20% tax, 21% VAT, Italy 31% tax, 22% VAT, Germany 30% tax, but 19% VAT and France 33% tax, 20% VAT. And asks friend Drasakis, Mr. Tsipras, whoever can answer: What kind of crazy businessman will remain in the country at the highest tax rate in Europe, which is 29%, the highest VAT, 24%, the worst and slowest justice process and a corrupt administration, just to pay a waste, inefficient publicity and the debts they have created and continue to create party nomadics? So what crazy businessman will insist? Perhaps only those who saw Ben Hur and envy a place in the galleries. Likenesses are his, and I respect them. And it ends up: I hope, my friend Stavros, that you understand what is happening on the market right now and understand, because I will soon send you products from the Bulgarian exotic Petritis, 30 minutes from Serres. Of course, to be honest, the storekeeper wrote all this before he reads the hundreds of seventeen development titles that you gave to the public yesterday. Nice words, empty words! I want to ask some specific questions, respecting time. On page 11 you admit that the taxes are high. One would expect you to commit, even for a reduction in a tax. Instead, you once again put the highest digital engraving in Europe on mobiles and computers. And here, pioneers one more time! The holistic development plan does not exist. I would like to make a few points. There is not one single paragraph for the use of public property. Not a single paragraph! We're the state with the greatest public property. How are we going to use it? One sentence, just one in one area. No proposal, only the table with the CECE you will sell is on page 105, if I am not mistaken. I'm on it. You say on page 30 that Greece wishes to offer a healthy economic environment for attracting innovative businesses. Did Spirji write that down? Do you think of "TAXIBEAT", making this reference to innovative businesses, to new ideas coming? Another point I would like to make is this: it is well known that the slogan that you have sadly regretted - and you have also called it - 'no house in the hands of a banker' and your promises of seismicism have launched the red loans and now you have given the green light for auctions everywhere. And in the first place, when it's someone's only asset? I ask, because on page 88 I read: I improve the enforcement of the rights of creditors, including by means of electronic auctions. Finally, no exception to the first residence, if and if it is one's only asset. Page 90: capital controls. There is no convincing answer. You would have taken them away, if I remember correctly, Mr Stathakis, two months after the implementation of the capital controls. So you said, in two months, they'll leave these bad capital control. Mrs Katseli had another view: at the end of 2015. Mr. Tsipras had assured Parliament here that everything ends in March 2016. We are in May 2018 and we are not capable, probably you are not yet competent, the government, to say what specific is going to happen with something that is weakening entrepreneurship and the economy. On page 32 you say that you have implemented a new system of evaluation of civil servants. Bravo! Where's that? What are the results? How many of the hundreds of thousands of employees have they been evaluated? Give us an answer, a number. Because the Minister says 'the number is not satisfactory'. Is that an answer? What is the number, then, to assess whether the evaluation is progressing? Finally, I would like to refer to education - where SYRIZA, let me, and more generally the Left, was running long before he ruled. Say it clean. Do you at last accept the interconnection of universities and production? You're saying something missing. Do you at last accept the interconnection of universities and entrepreneurship? Because I tell you that on page 68 you dare not say it clearly and repeat some generalities. I'll keep talking about education. On page 67 you talk about educational autonomy in schools, when all of your training bodies have denounced that you are clamping on all education structures. It clamps on the structures of the Ministry and leaves no room for autonomous action and no room for breathing. On page 66 you talk about the social dialogue that took place on higher education, when even Mr Liakou's plan was thrown into the trash. Of course, the reconstruction of higher education, which you say you are doing, does not have any specific objectives within your programme. Unless we mean, as a reconstruction of higher education, linking TEIs to universities, creating bread and bread for a University of Western Athens, mainly changing the labels on the national streets and no structure and no foundation. A great deal could be said about a project, which I told you is lacking and ignorant. It is, of course, - and we should admit it - for some of you a great turn. But for society it is another retarded fragmentary step. You know, we're all talking - and we're all talking - very often about the motive of the Greek economy that's going to blow up sometime. Be careful if we close a factory and keep it closed for a few months, then the damage may be reversible. But if we close a factory for ten years, it'll all rust. That is what I fear has happened today to a large part of the economy. Your disgusting efforts, your experiments are not capable of awakening the economy. The problem, of course, is not present. I will not be tired of repeating that the opportunity for the country has been lost at the start of the crisis. We have forced ourselves and instead of opening a new shop, with new rules, we have blamed the other people for what was our failure. Of course, each of the political leaders since the start of the crisis has envisioned themselves as the only savior and none of the politicians has wanted to help anyone. A leading example is Mr Samaras, who refused all tons of consensus. Of course, last and top example is Mr. Tsipras, who was looking forward to tearing all the memos together, to finally sign the largest memorandum signed by the country. Do we have the right to dream of another policy, after what I have said, unite the creative forces of the country, the minds they have left, the hands they have left, which continue, which are trying to put back all of us for the construction of a new country? Are there any forces to turn words into action? There are. Will they be able? Maybe. The new road requires a major political change. The SYRIZA - ANEL model failed and failed every day. The place needs priorities, new minds, speed, transfer to our country of all successful models, forefront to conservativeism and populism, liberation from the party state of power. This political change requires the place with an alliance of creative progressive forces, such as the one attempting by the Change Movement. In front of us, we have one last chance. If we fail again, this time after August, we will be alone. Let's figure it out. Let's get the head out of the box. Let us listen to the needs of society and the help of those who come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, let me make two announcements. The Minister of Health, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Home Affairs, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Foreign Affairs, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Infrastructure and Transport, as well as the Deputy Minister of Interior, have today tabled a draft law: "Proclamation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, amending the Reception Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, establishing the Support Office for the Prevention and Control of Untransmitted Diseases in Athens, Greece. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-five students and students and six teachers from the 1st and 2nd Sperkada Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. We welcome those who are in the Chamber, the President, the Ministers - two, three are of course - and the Members of Parliament. Today's debate has caused Mrs Fofi Gennimata, who wants her party to play an important role in the future. Have they asked the party of the Change Movement - as they want us to call them - apologise for what they have done, for appointings, for mistakes, for how to assign, for the "Tsohatopoulos" etc.? Not to say more to describe a crime. This is a complex crime. It's a civilization eroded downwards. We had the gifts of Andreas Papandreou, who said "they are little gifts" the five hundred million. Is that what this party apologies for? Is one of them gone? I saw everyone at their conference be there. One does not give up the will to remain. But there's also a moral problem for SYRIZA. SYRIZA took the voters from PASOK after denounced PASOK as a party, and now calls on the executives. So why did you blame them? The world, the voters of PASOK you took. Now you're asking for cooperation with the executives too. Then why didn't you go from the beginning together? Did your government have to intercede, do whatever disaster it did? Because SYRIZA didn't do a few disasters too. Strange things. If one is an objective observer of Greek public affairs, he will suffer paranoia with what is happening. You in the New Democracy who want them as partners with the PASOK MPs. They're the same ones doing the assignments. You want them? Is that the change you're working on? Is that the new spirit you're engaged in? Has anyone left? Do you need them to build a government? Is that it? Filling the numbers? Here is the moral side: Greece that will see you making a government tomorrow with Mrs. Gennimata what will she say? First you blamed them and then you collide. I shall refer a little to the economy, since the debate is about the economy. I said that in the previous assessment, we were told by the government and the Members of Parliament who were on the channels that the QE would be restructured and that we would be compensated for this. Everywhere in all the panels there was the opinion of the symposia that the QE and the restructuring, the debt arrangement will compensate our country for any sacrifices. The third assessment is over, none of this has been done and I'm sorry it was not requested by anyone. A whole party went out on the channels and said, "Not to say what it was saying." There was an entire account on which hope was invested in the Greek people. Time seems, in Greece heals it all. The fourth assessment has now come and attempted the same. "Come on, we come out of the memorandum in August, so we will negotiate for what we have voted for December 31st, the pension cut, and you will see what nice thing foreigners will allow us to change." And your Minister himself comes in five days ago and states: "We will observe exactly what we have voted on in the House and what we have agreed with the foreigners". Well, so long you've heard your MPs go out to the panels and say what they were saying, why did you let them call them? In development and New Democracy and SYRIZA you got zero. New Democracy brought a factory, brought an investor? Some investors, some TAP tubes. An investor, my child, start a Dutch and say: "I'm not going to Romania, I'm going to Greece. Is there confidence in this economy and I go," came one either on New Democracy or on SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u29	He's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u30	It's here, Mr. President. I don't know. If you say so, it's over for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u31	Papastratos. Go to Papastrato. There are many more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u32	All right, my president. You're a SYRIZA MEP, and I understand. In development you received zero both and it has become a cemetery. The unemployed do not count on the five hundred or six hundred thousand who left Germany. You don't count on these unemployed. You say unemployment fell from 21% to 20%. Say hello to the plank! The six hundred thousand in Germany are in it? Young people coming out of the universities are inside? Have they been recorded as unemployed? Because, to be unemployed, you must have been an employee and lost your job to call you unemployed, Mr. Tasouula. Do you know this trick how we record the unemployed in Greece? And this trick you taught, New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u33	Me personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u34	Not you personally. I don't dare say that. But to the extent that you're proud of her. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, you're holding development conferences here and there. Is there anything wrong? There are various state-runners and usually policemen gather. I was told at your conference that you have too many police attendants. Is that true? Mr. President of the House, is it true?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u35	We invited you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u36	But you're holding development conferences and gathering people who have nothing to do with development. Just to fill the room. And Mr. Mitsotakis has started continuous visits, like in Corfu, and he talks and says he will guarantee the minimum guaranteed income. Mr. Mitsotakis has the minimum guaranteed income. It is stuck in reducing taxes, scales and minimum guaranteed income. What's he gonna do with the money? What money will the minimum guaranteed income achieve? Money is required. Since you couldn't bring money the other day, why would you be able to do it tomorrow? What confidence can the citizen have in a party that has ruled and did not bring an investment that he will now bring. Did you get caught up? Are you more capable now? I don't think so. You're the same party. So all you're doing - conferences from here, visits from there - is to write cameras. And you've done some pretty thing with the cameras. In all the panels, there is a SYRIZA and a New Democracy once and for all and a PASOK. This is private and public television. 95% of the television time is one of SYRIZA, one of the New Democracy and now and then one of PASOK's. Is that the democracy, Mr. Voutsi, where you proclaimed? Is that the democracy you believed when you were a party of 3%, 4%? This democracy you meant? The biggest of them to have from a representative on the canals and be a democracy? Is that what you dreamed of as a left? Because I on the left knew her party fighting bi-communism. Now you've identified a pole of bicommunism, and you've become yourself right necessarily. 'Cause right doesn't mean right only, it also means right-wing behavior. And having the monopolies as a dictator I think it's a right-wing symptom, which is supposed to be in your life the oldest you've ever fought this. The Prime Minister spoke of working regularity. Why? Because it won't allow block out, it won't allow team redundancies, it will reopen negotiations in collective agreements, etc. But all this requires an economy that moves. To the cemetery no matter what you bring back, at night there's only vampires running around. You forget one thing: a country that hasn't earned its trust can't make dreams. You've done away with dreams in the country and now you're talking and saying you're gonna save her. In fact, you said the Right with PASOK destroyed the country and you saved it because you took it out of the memos. How do you get her out of the memoirs? What are you getting her out of? Let's see what it's gonna be like. Let's see if it's raining, if there's storms, hail. What will be after August? Don't rush, because you might get hurt, and this time it'll be the greatest humiliation. You may be humiliated by so much promise, stay in the cold of the bathroom with your promises. Occupational normality may occur in an economy that moves. Here all my free professionals say that if they cut a 100 euro invoice, the costs are around 70 euros. Everyone's lying? Is everyone aware? Is everyone against Tsipra? All of them were calling the New Democracy the day before yesterday. They're not New Democracy. So they say they dare not cut invoices. It's like you're asking them to do tax evasion. Why did you so much up the contributions of the free professionals? Free professionals don't ask you to go into public service or expect anything else from you. Let them exist! Why are you destroying them? So what's your fault? They're the only ones fighting at night - day to go to the house for lunch. Are you messing with them? The easy target is for you? You were talking about big goals. Where are these great goals you were talking about? You say that the next elections will be held with a great dilemma: Progress and maintenance. I'm afraid progress is a maintenance, too. Where's the dilemma? Which one of you represents progress in Greece today? Tell me who represents the progress. Progress will mean parity in the media. Is there an equivalency? You said you were going to kick the pimps. You just enthusiastized them and legalized them! Progress means the citizen finds his point quickly. Does the citizen find anyone right? This is where pensions don't even come out. It's been years to get out. Did you ask how someone lives? You've cut the widow's pensions. If we die in this Chamber, the widows, how will they live, Mr. Voutsi? Does this room take care of the widows? How easily can widow's pensions be cut? I fear that the country is in front of a dilemma: a New Democracy that is totally unreliable and simply as a hyena seeks to eat the people, serving the oligarchy - because it is a permanent mission of the Right - and a SYRIZA, who was good when it was at 4%, but now it has become worse than the right itself. If you want, you come out and ask the world. Do you have any contact with the world, or do you have to take two hundred police officers with you when you go out? Did people tell you to move on? If people told you to move on, I'm lying! Are you proud that two and a half years ago you said you were going to tear the memoirs and now you say, "We're going out in August"? This transformation can be said to be towards realism. I can understand that. A party selling madness once saw reality and became a realistic party. But can society stay the same party and trust it? Can he look at the citizens in the eyes of this party that lied so much, that it was in such a big mistake and asked for the country's rule? You say you're hiring. Mrs. Gerovali said yesterday that you were going to make seven and a half thousand recruitments. He also said: “Why should we do 5 to 1? Let's do one to one. It is not health, it is not education." Let the country calm down, relax! Is all your mind to appoint civil servants? Let the country stand up! With what right will you reload on the country heavy before the country rises before the Greek people breathe? Is that your main concern? Appoint? Rusfetti? But that's what you got in your DNA? Is that what you're bringing up with the rushphetti? One last thing now, before I leave this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u37	Through ASAP, they'll be recruited!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u38	Please, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u39	It does not question that, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u40	As I do not interrupt you, Mr Balaura, do not interrupt me either. Aren't you the ones who got the allowance, the boyama last year? I say, if it's you. I don't know, that's what it was called, 'cause I don't watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u41	He's got it through an ASA!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u42	On the issue of Skopje, I have information that students at the University of Skopje - there has been a university for years, since the Averoff era - have signed a statement that Macedonia is not Greek. Have you heard that, Mr. Tasoula?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u43	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u44	You don't? We need to look into this. Those who studied at the University of Skopje seem to me to have signed a statement - and I say 'it seems', because I want to be absolutely sure, but I have no doubt about the source that he told me - that Macedonia is not Greek, Mr Voutsi. In fact, some of these have received diplomas. I hope the Chamber does not have such a graduate. They were forced by the Skopje before they left Yugoslavia, registered at the University to make a statement that Macedonia is not Greek. And it was from the era Averof this. That surprised me. You'll look into it. The NSA has the evidence. Do not rush to say 'no', do not report. I am the one who has the complete information, and I have used the phrase'seems' to me. However, you are a bit of a prerogative and are in a hurry to reassure 'no'. You may be exposed, because the information is specific. But I would like to ask you something else in this Chamber: you have all come out and said: 'No Illiden! Iliden exposes us. It refers to aluterism.’ "Macedonia" when it is given, do you take the view that it does not expose us? If we asked Turkey for a similar retreat, would it? If the Americans were to push Turkey and say, "To solve the issue in your neighborhood, make a retreat," would Erdogan make it? So why would the willingness of this Chamber to hand over the name 'Macedonia'? What have I responded to both the Skopje and the American Ambassador? To offer financial compensation, to enter NATO, to send businessmen, but to call themselves "Skopje". Am I the only one who asks for this? The whole other room wants to give the name "Macedonia"? What's going on, Mr. Voutsi? I'm not saying they're stateless people who give it. I didn't say that. But for what? I also asked Mr Tsipras: why did you hurry and go to Davos and discuss the complex name? Mr Tsipras told me, of course, that since 2008 Kostas Karamanlis and Bakoyannis had given me "Macedonia - in parentheses - Skopje". I said to him, "But there was no signature. Why do you feel committed?’ And he said to me: 'Because the other side considers it a safeguard'. Answer from the Caramanlis, by no one, I have not received. Is the country to deliver its silver and gold with such lightness? I call on the President of the Republic to hold a meeting to record the wishes and views of the political leaders, to commit ourselves to what one wants. I was told by the President of the Republic - by way of example, because he had a problem yesterday - that it was the Prime Minister's case to convene her. What will happen in this country? If anything happens to the Prime Minister, will it lure the country? Are we going to give the name 'Macedonia' and there will be no meeting of the political leaders? Will you bring us one day here and in the ways the government knows, taking from here and there MPs, hand over the name "Macedonia" and have your conscience quietly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u45	Mr Panayotaros, Vice-President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The Government has put forward a comprehensive development plan. Of course, listening to "solistic" in the mind of most Greeks comes the word "leaving", because those who have been experiencing for over eight years are looking at this side. The honorable President of PASOK, the Movement of Change, Mr Gennimata, in the document on which the debate is taking place, says: "In the next period it is considered whether the country, society, our economy, are going for its definitive and secure out of the crisis." And we add: "...which you, together with the New Democracy, have been throwing on the rocks for over forty years." Below, Mrs Gennamata writes that, "The time-limit of the third - more painful - memorial signed by the government of SYRIZA - ANEL...", diligently forgetting that she voted both PASOK and the New Democracy and the River, thus trying to get her tail out. Just down in that text, Mrs Gennimata’s most charming letter, she draws up the 'clean' - within a lot of introductory words, saying: 'The situation is different, because of the preferential measures, the simultaneous surveillance and the tough surveillance...' - from our'rescue' - and that in many introductory forms - as we - 'for more than ninety years'. This was all said in the third memorandum, Madam President of PASOK, which you voted for, like the others. The following text by Mrs Gennimatas states: "The holistic development plan of the Ministry of Finance, which had neither the courage nor the sensitivity to discuss with the political forces and society, is, it seems, another "Thessaloniki Programme". We comment here that when he says "with the political forces", he means other than the Golden Dawn, because you are talking about them yourself, you are dealing with them within and outside this Hall. You are also referring to the unfavourable primary surpluses, which you too have advertised, when you have managed to achieve them and to the privileged new reductions in pensions, tax-free, social costs, auctions, the disposal of national property and all the painful measures that have been voted on in the third memorandum, which included them all one by one. You voted for them, too! You claim that there is no comprehensive national plan for the memorial course of the country. First of all, using the word "national", rather, sounds strange when you were, when you were the first to abolish the word "national" by the Ministry of National Education and Religion, by the National Bank and by everything else, so that we gradually become a "automatic" society where no Greek citizen is served, except loan sharks and all those who are being chaired and want to get all the silver and everything that this place has. The best answer to all those who voted for the memorials, which you see, is whether SYRIZA - ANEL’s coup d’état has done better than the previous ones, is what the Vice-President of the European Central Bank said a few days ago. He briefly said that all the plans, the whole programme, which we and the International Monetary Fund supervised and the troika were a mistake, which had disastrous consequences for Greek society. "We have ruined you unjustly. I'm sorry, our mistake'. It's no big deal. And the hundreds of thousands of Greeks who migrated abroad, the millions of unemployed, the hundreds of thousands of businesses, which either closed or left abroad? Is everything okay? I am presenting in the Minutes the interview of the Vice-President of the European Central Bank. I read you instantly two very important sections: “Let us remember the shocking article of “WASHINGTON POST” last April on the state of the Greek economy and its prospect of returning to the levels of 2007, in 2028-2030, with losses of more than 2 trillion euros in GDP until then.” Below: "In fact, if the latest estimates of the IMF are correct, it may take at least ten more years before Greece returns where it was in 2007, and that is only if there is no other recession until then. Two decades lost, therefore, is the best scenario for Greece." It says below: "The Greek economy has developed only 2.8% in terms that are adapted to the population, in the four years of what is supposed to be a recovery. To give you an idea of how disappointing this is, America of the 1930s developed 30.2% and Argentina of 2000 developed 26.9% in the first four years after the crisis. The result was, at the same point in their recovery, that the United States had almost returned to where they were after the conflict and Argentina was actually 17.1% richer than it was before a crisis. Greece is still 23.5% poorer than in 2007. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned interview, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Remember the statements - not once - by Mrs Lagard and other members of the International Monetary Fund for errors of calculation, errors of mistakes, the results of which have been experienced and experienced by the Greek people, with all these tragic consequences that we have before us. Of course, never had any impact. To understand after eight years of memoranda, sales, tragedies, disasters, public debt in the first quarter of 2018 reached EUR 444 billion, EUR 15 billion in excess of 2017, i.e. 194% of the gross national product, when in 2010 we entered the crisis and took all measures to improve, the debt was about EUR 320 billion, i.e. 126.7% of gross national product. I'm filing it for the Minutes for those who are interested in seeing this evidence. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There's another painting that's very interesting to read. It says that Greece's gross national product in 2010 was 226 billion and has reached 176 billion in 2015 and is constantly falling, with what this implies. Tens of hundreds of millions of euros lost on the altar of memoranda. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All the supposed efforts to save the country, the evaluations, the memoranda, the institutions, all of them were made, of course, not to save Greece, but to save the collapsed European banks, which owned a huge part of the Greek debt by 2010. The first Memorandum was made essentially for their rescue, charging and mortgageing the entire Greek people and the national wealth, while at the same time selling everything against reasonable prices. To understand how much money the Greek people have given through their governments to the banks, I read the following: First State guarantee worth 28 billion euros, n.3723, FEC 250-9 in December 2008. Second package of state guarantees: EUR 15 billion in 2010. Third package of State guarantees to banks of EUR 10 billion, L.3864, July 2010. Fourth package in 2010, EUR 25 billion. Fifth package, 30 billion euros in May 2011. Six package of state guarantees to the constantly bankrupt, 30 billion euros in 2011. The seventh package was again in December 2011, another EUR 30 billion. The total amount of state guarantees for the many bankrupt amounts to EUR 168 billion. This total of guarantees amounts to EUR 218 billion, which accounts for almost 100% of GDP. I'm putting this down for the record, for anyone who's interested in seeing what's there. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have heard Prime Minister Tsipras speak of real facts. Of course, the prime prime prime minister disguises himself, only if one goes back to what one says until January 2015. Until then, you were talking about the suicides which, unfortunately, continue at an unsatisfactory rate and intensity throughout the entire Greek territory. It was your favorite then to use it. Of course, now, it's a fish silence. We remain first in Europe. It was assumed that the unemployment rate has decreased since 2015 by 2 to 2,5 points. However, this is a virtual decline, because, as all the data show, about 50% of all those who work, work under a semi-employment scheme, with wages which are barely coming for coffee, cigarettes and nothing else. We see a 'brain drain' that started in 2010-2011 on PASOK and New Democracy - and it is ironic that you use it, gentlemen of the Officerial Response and of PASOK and blame others - which, however, continues at the same speed. And more than half a million Greek citizens, who should be the engine of restarting the economy, have left and gone abroad and offer their services to countries at all lengths and backwards of the earth. And they're the best! Demographically, it is perhaps the greatest scourge of Hellenism, which has a direct effect on the memorial and economic catastrophe. In the last two years, it is the first time that births have been less than deaths - and in previous years there has been a problem - including all foreigners who have been born in Greece. The rhythms are tragic. If we look at it economically, the demographic problem is directly related to insurance. All the studies, all the surveys say that, but you're the ones who are squeezing. You've taken some new measures. It is the second year of the year when free professionals pay some space contributions, which reach 23% of their profits and which, in combination with an unbearable tax, with 100% tax advances and all the rest, is actually depleted, any gain a private person can gain. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The coastal economy has increased sharply in our homeland with evidence. The leaving business abroad is continuing. Anyone who can leave, leaves, whoever can change seat, changes seat and whoever cannot, very simply closes. And those who don't close are why most, very simply, can't hang up. Because, to go to taxi to close, you'll have to take care of your unfinished business to IKA, to TEBE, to taxi and elsewhere. And of course, this cannot be done by the majority of free professionals. You have become “xanax” for people to take it like gums with all that, which you bring and vote and experience Greek citizens. I give you two more details to understand that there is no exit, no exit from the memorials, that the Greek economy does not recover. Internationally renowned economist Steven Hanke says, "Zombie the Greek economy". I give you the document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also give you the statistics, where this exit, which you are preparing to do in August, will be extremely expensive for employees and retired people at all levels. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Prime Minister spoke of over-performance. As he says: "With this over-performance we have managed and given a social dividend for the second consecutive year". Of course, what's the social dividend? Of all the things you have groomed from the Greek people, you are returning some crumbs, in the form of social benefits and outbursts. It is Venezuela's tactic, that is to say they are all poor and happy with a dish of food, with a pool or something. We have heard - and we are constantly listening - the term 'debate debt'. First of all, we need to know whether the debt is viable or manageable. You once said it was sustainable. You're now saying it's manageable. I think that is no longer what you say, because it is more than 200% of GDP. And the IMF, which we all hear about debt haircuts, refers to the credits that have been given by the rest and not that. How do you get out on the markets? The exit is extremely expensive and is carried out with strict supervision, up to 75% of the debt, that is to say forever. The real economy is falling apart. You must respect the laws and the Constitution. I give it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, the Greek citizens, against the banks, have a point which they cannot find anywhere at all. You are talking about the real economy, but - unfortunately - most of you have not stuck a sign in TEBE, so you do not know what it is and what it is about small and medium-sized enterprises, confessors, increased taxation, insurance, and the industry that goes abroad. Mr Tsipras, you are not convinced, because very simply,'served food'. You said it and in 2015 and you did nothing about it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me two more minutes, Mr. President. Thank you. I would like to make some suggestions on the way out of the problems that this place has. Contemporary and coordinated action is needed so that we can get out of the tragic situation in which we are now in. Firstly, with regard to the debt case, there should be an audit of the debt on the basis of international law, as John Metaxas did in 1936. I'm filing the evidence. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is something that they later used in 2000 and Argentina and Ecuador and achieved a legal reduction in their debt. Germany also made a direct claim on the interest-free loan. It is a huge sum that we owe. There's no negotiation and no objection. Where appropriate, the only negotiation is for the amount which should be repaid, because there are different ways in which the loan is calculated. In fact, I would like to catch up with Mr Voutsi, the President of Parliament, who last time made a comment on what I said. In the committee we are the ones who are asking for all the compensation, but until this happens, because we think that the committee is being held up and we do not know what we want as a country, we should have asked for the loan yesterday, as you were saying by 2015. We call for the security of the borders, the protection of Greek workers and Greek products in the new and right spirit of the age of protectionism. All countries are bordering everything, even on imports of products, in order to protect their own. Finally, let us do this too. There must be a competitive tax environment. It is not possible for Greece to have tax, which touches 75%, along with the advance payment of tax in the neighbouring countries too, to be from 10% to 20%. Insurance contributions must be perfectly reasonable and realistic, so that the free trader can pay them. Finally, there must be a simplification of this dreadful chaos of bureaucracy. Imagine that Emir of Qatar came and while the governments gave him everything, i.e. "g. "g and water", he finally "god night" because he couldn't do anything at all, because he found a wall in front of the bureaucracy of this country. We are proposing to create a new banking system. Finally, the many bankrupt has to be nationalised and ends the tale of ongoing refinancing, because in addition to the state guarantees we have mentioned, tens of billions of euros have been given through the FFS through the three recapitalisations and possibly a fourth that will come, despite the fact that the ‘stress tests’ were successful, as you all say and laugh, because there are ‘capital checks’. If there were no ‘capital controls’, I would tell you what would be a success and a failure. As a country, we should have a self-sufficiency plan in food, fuel, medicines, weapons and, of course, in currency. It must be planned, organised and coordinated, on the basis of a plan to return to the national currency, because as all the financial manuals say and what all the major economists have studied, regardless of whether they say otherwise, a country which does not have its own currency is absolutely nothing at all. We now see in Italy the new government - I give it to the Minutes - saying that it is a bad currency for the euro, according to the leader of Lega in the North, the co-government of the new Italian Government. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. For its own part, of course, it is not enough to go to the drachma if all the others are not corrected and improved. To renegotiate all European treaties, the Maastricht Treaty, the Lisbon Treaty, the Dublin Treaty, which restricts Greek sovereignty and prevent us from making corrective moves at no level, both in national matters and in economic matters. Finally, to introduce this famous EEZ. Everyone says we're swimming on oil, on hydrocarbons, on natural gas, etc. However, in essence, there is still talk of nothing else. The small Cyprus is moving rapidly and in the coming years it will have huge revenues for the benefit of the economy, society and the nation. To re-approve healthy investors, such as microbiologists, who have now constantly invested their money in the state through the Greek government bonds and have benefited everyone. The haircut made - they were literally dissolving - naturally did not result in their money being invested again in relation to various airtighters, gamblers, gamblers, who gamble their money in Greece, but with the banquet speaking. Renegotiation of agreements under English law. Inadmissible. To give genuine encouragement back to the hundreds of thousands of our compatriots. We need this knowledge pool that they take free abroad to return to our homeland and offer here and make our homeland an oasis of research and innovation, where everyone will come to create here and I wish they could build here. Regeneration of the Greek industry. There's a yeast. It's the tourism, which works on its own. Shipbuilding industry. Here we see a number of owls happening, built hundreds of ships all over the earth, except Greece. This is not only about the cheap share of China, because in Japan the payroll is four and five times more expensive than Greece. It has to do with other issues, which could be solved immediately. The processing, in which our homeland once mingled, especially in textiles and agricultural products, can return to our home country. As we said, the Brain Drain can be stopped, through the investigation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u47	Please finish, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u48	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Also, another sector is the defence industry. We once made Artemis. However, for various wicked reasons, while it was innovative, when it came out to production, it was obsolete. We had "Gegassos", from the first "UAV", but, after we first got "UAVs" from other countries, after we put it into production. We had the armored battle vehicle "Centauri". And the culmination is the freshmen. There's Greek design frigates, they're buried somewhere and they never used them. I'm tabling this for your Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, in order to do all this, as well as a number of others, which you will find in the updated, comprehensive program of Golden Dawn, which will be posted in the next few days online, you will find everything there because some will claim that Golden Dawn does not have the executives, economists, experience, etc., we respond as follows: Forty years of governance by the 'lighters', we have seen where they led the country. We saw the bankruptcy of your parties, where you owe anyone who speaks Greek and not just Greek. You who are proposing, you have never cut a sign at TEBE, unlike the Chief of the Golden Dawn, which has been in TEVE since 1993 until now, to know what is going on. I should like to mention the bankrupt parties and some party presidents who took maritime loans for a million euros. Also, I wish this arrangement made by Mr.Mitsotakis for "KERYKA HANNIA" with the national to make it by all Greeks. I wish you could give all the Greeks this opportunity, because then you would have no problem paying back the banks. But, you see, it's just for their own people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u49	Please, Mr. Panayotare, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u50	I'm done. We have neither funding nor debt nor debt nor anything at all. We're third power. We have the "know how" and whoever wants, let's come and talk about it. That is why 'to dawn a new dawn' - as Mr Tsipras said in his speech before - only Golden Dawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u51	Mr Papachristopoulos, Vice-President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. In positive sciences, such as medicine, mathematics, geometry, there is always cause and effect. I have been here since the beginning of the procedure and listened carefully to all the speakers. It is a question of thinking - and it is not a paradox - who bankrupt the country? Is that unnecessary? Is that a luxury? Is it paradoxical to make this clear? Something happened and the country went bankrupt. In fact, too many have tried over the three years that this government, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, to load the bankruptcy of the country into the government. Anyone can say what they want. The question is how much credibility it has and how convinced it is. So I say to make a small regression, quickly, very quickly, on how the country went bankrupt and then to today. So I just want to remind you of three numbers. Already when this government took over in January 2015, the entire Greek population had lost 27% of its property. So, with simply Greek, 120% of GDP had risen to 180%. There is no question of that. People who say they know the market and play on the five fingers reached the unemployment of 27%. Unbelievable number! 27% unemployment means that everything is falling apart. They don't work insurance funds, business shut down. That makes sense. And the debt was around 325-328 billion. The definition of bankruptcy, when it took over on the first day. I want to make a little regression, quick, not go far back. Not to go to the Stock Exchange, which changed hands for very few, very few, to come to the most recent ones, the word "equipment" collaboratively refers to you immediately in corruption and misassis. It is no accident that Mr Liaconakos - he has fallen softly, of course - is circulating in handcuffs. Of course, he's out. We're talking about a hate orgy. The Olympic Games orchestra. The ‘SIEMENS’? Some people here are cut off for retired people. All countries have taken the money into account by Siemens. The only one we haven't got yet is Greece. Two billion, it was the unanimous decision by the committee of inquiry. Who took the lead then so we wouldn't get the money? Mr. Burnits. Who was it? Mr. Samara's lawyer. You want more recent, fresh? Yesterday, the Evangelatos, the SYPS inspector, appointed to the government of Samaras - Venizelos, had come to the Committee of Inquiry. Anyone who hears what Mr. Evangelatos said will understand there was a party in health. With what Paul had said, he was around 83 billion, he was rather diligent, when for ten years, for example, a radiopharmaceutical is invoiced ten times up and no one talks. George Sourlas himself said we took the machine from Spain 4 million, took it to the islands of Man and invoiced 186 on them - look out - the price is being shaped. What can I say? We're talking about an incredible party of corruption and interlocutory. And it is no coincidence that even now, after so many years, all these scandals come to the surface, what happened in health, with anti-cancer drugs, anabolics, new and more, and goes on to say. Is it wrong that this is how the country was ruling? I'm saying, is that a hurricanes? Is it fanaticism? And he arrived where he arrived. It has started a rabies attack, since the first day, of this government to be parentheses. Some people think they have lifelong property in the state, in the government, in the parliament. Is it incomprehensible to them that they may be missing from here and that some of us are insidious, in style 'what do they want here, between us?' Handrailing proof is the following. There's a lawyer named Michael Cohen. He's the lawyer of the current President of the United States, Donald Trump. So he was accused, too, of taking $1,200,000 to get medicine. That's how NOVARTIS works all over the planet, don't be fooled. So there, in the Americas of Trump, in addition to what the FBI, the Ministry of Justice and the Securities and Markets Committee are doing, the Senate has moved and currently controls Michael Cohen and sits him down and asks him. No one in the United States thought of blackmailing, making coups small, threatening, talking about constructions, etc. It's the company's tactic. The coordinates are yours. I don't want to go to that matter now. What do I mean? I hear very often here 'wrong netting'. Yes, excesses have been said, I admit it, too. We were ignorant of danger. We said things we couldn't do. You convict us of this. So at some point, he played the crown - letters, gave us Symple around 50 billion and tossed us out of the Eurozone and sent us to the dumpsters between us. Some people had a different view, some people didn't. Among them are we here, I imagine, who the hundred twenty-two then voted to stay the country in the Eurozone, with a compromise. There's been a compromise. No one refused it. But it had the honesty that the government would go to elections. Forty Members have even left her. I respect them, I love them, they have tried their luck too. And the Greek people, by a large majority, gave it the government again. You know, these September elections have become invisible. No one ever talks about them. There's no, you'll never hear anyone talk about them. From that point on, there was no lie, no exaggeration. It was specifically the things that happened. We need this little report to remind the House of what has been treated as a misinterpretation of this government and what has happened. I am sorry to remember exactly what these people have said and what these people have done until the last minute. I don't want to stick there. I'm coming to today. I hear dangers from morning to night. Well, let's see how it is. First of all, it does not escape me that other things are macro-economic, other indicators and other everyday life. It's different things. One is ahead and the other is next. Is there a big part of Greek citizens going through badly today? Sure. Whoever doesn't admits to living out of reality. But was it necessary to improve almost all indicators? And it's not too much, all the indicators to go slowly to everyday life. I think so. I would like to remind you here: This is the sixth time, the sixth house, it's probably missing you, which really says so. That from the clean b, it's from the houses, let's go to the +b. And it also gives perspective to the Greek economy. It is the sixth rating for the country's credit rating. Credit Swiss said yesterday that it was seeing the country's clear exit. To come to an understanding, we all see that exports have increased. Since 19, they've been to 33, with a view to going to 50. And still investment - and I'm not saying it, everybody says it - has grown. Unemployment cowardly but stable has fallen to seven points, with a view to going to fourteen points in two to three years. Moreover, the banks, which all were in danger, passed the stress test and are almost ready. I hear we don't do social policy. I heard with my ears the Theanoo Fotio that in a million two hundred citizens it gives shelter. It is the same that took from the waste bins around the six hundred thousand Greeks and gave them a social solidarity allowance. Is that our prospect? Oh, no. We want unemployment to end, investment to go ahead. I also heard Niko Pappa. What did people really do with digitalisation, with the digital economy, with e-government? They hadn't done anything. Nothing. Now the electronic signature is coming in, now the electronic document handling is getting out of the paper, now the one stop's electronics is getting in, now it's starting - and Contonis tell you - the e-justice and much more. I am not saying now about the POS and other things that have already been done. Why didn't these happen before? What for? Greater way to hit corruption and complication is e-government. And tangible proof, apart from actually having great indicators - I do not, in fact, admit it too - Estonia, but it is playing a game and has survived as a country among countries that were not even countries a few years ago. And yet, the ten-year bonds may have been up a little in the last few days, because there was a turmoil, but they've come around 3:00, near 4:00. In addition, five to one, did you forget? We were committed. Five pensions, one intake. This was 3 to 1 and recently the Minister responsible spoke that from 2019 it would be 1 to 1. Is it a bit? And yet, when two and a half million were the uninsured, are these excesses? Well, let me know. We gave 180 million to people who came the tax paper. In other words, 30 million of them found in the tax office and 150 in the hospital accounts. What are these? We're going through like this? Possibly possins? I would like to say this: the government is literally accepting an unequal war. I'll say it again. Some consider themselves to be lifelong owners in this country. They haven't cut out of it. And that's why they reacted like that. I would like to say something, because I have experienced the issue of 'NOVARTIS' closely. Did the government have any reason to make a craftsman for Avramopoulos, who has never hurt her? Do I know about Kutruman or about the Lykurenzo or the Pikrammenos? Has the government conspired to convince the FBI, the Securities and Market Commission, the United States Department of Justice? Do you want me to remind you of something else? What anguish, what anguish they made to leave Tulopakis, Manolis and the third judge who didn't remember his name now, and picked up a couple of seventeen signatures and sent them. And to his credit, the head of the Attorney's Prosecutor, says "children what you are going to do is illegal". The first coup. Do you want me to remind you of what happened three days ago? Mrs Papaspyrou, a public administration inspector, was interviewed by a journalist at a station. "The workers" of the CEDEFOP - not to say what was going on - made an extrajudicial to stop, to hear nothing. Why is that? They were sued to judges and laughed at every bitter man, and of course the prosecutor took them and filed them. This thing can't be done! Legally selected were the judges. What make? Article 86, not to be forgotten, does not exist anywhere on the planet. In France alone, it is also a question of security for anyone else, not corruption. There is no such article in any country, where in six months there are offended offences. The people who protest, they made it. The protected witnesses who call them hoodmen, they made them. 1 was only for terrorist organisations - see 17 November or Golden Dawn later - and 14 with signatures, not to tell you, some who are being indicted. And again, I do not speak with passion, the presumption of innocence applies, let them prove their innocence. I don't say it badly. Who will come to invest in a country where top politicians are corrupt? Honestly, I wish. So what we found out was in three lectures to promote a bill, and then they went out, signatures... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How much tolerance do I have, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u53	Now, I'm not going to set the time, but it's going to be a little slow to finish. There's tolerance, alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u54	Because I respect, not okay, I don't want to break time. You know, I'm one of the disciplined MPs. Three dictionaries came in and went back out to get the drugs in. Can it be a monopoly, a medicine? That's how the country ruled. Lucentis is forty times more expensive. Why did they get stuck? And I'm not complaining, they're protesting rival companies. It has become a monopoly, such as Gilenya and many more. Now, I want to say this: let us all read these hundreds of six pages. Some people were expecting and already mocking that we will be rejected by the European Union, by the lenders. Not only did they reject it, but they found it very right. The technical agreement is over. Some said 'no', they said that the debt would be discussed - forget it - after August. No, it will be 21 June at the latest, perhaps earlier. Everything shows that we're going for a real way out. Already at the moment the pillow is 20 billion, and it is planned that I should not analyse it, the economists know better, to be 50 billion at the end of 2020. The country's needs are 45 billion. There is nothing, except in the absence of control, and the situation favours us today and favours us very much. I want to believe that Chakalotos never said we wouldn't have a commission. And? Does the third Memorandum have anything to do with evaluation of the comitology? Yeah, they're gonna be here two or three times, since we owe 75%. And? We will have the opportunity to have a degree of freedom. And because I hear a lot of dangers about two issues, yes, we have indeed signed low pensions, that is, the difference between tax and tax. Those who read and are well read and I recommend that they read, those who are retired before 2016 have nothing to fear. Some others and not all of them, maybe very little. But I want to say something here. When all the indicators are right, when the IMF - I am not saying go away, because the existence of the IMF - we see that it is loose and has already shifted dates - and the Minister is doing well, because that is how a Minister should speak, because he is negotiating, they say "sir, signed" and finally - I say: Let August 2018 come, because some people are exposed, I believe, in advance and play. I'm sorry to say it, but the port of the desperate has a name. It's called an exaggeration, it's called a falsification of evidence, it's called a parthology. I would like to say, and I am finishing that some in this House have not come to make public relations nor to get rich. I think we have put a bet, not excesses, to make this country normal, because it wasn't normal, we don't make fun of ourselves. They all worked for a hundred and fifty families. That bet will be won by this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Mr Drasakis, Vice-President of the Government, has the floor - Minister for Economy and Development, which concludes the prototype cycle. After the speech by Mr. Drasakis, the seconds will follow, in the same order as announced in the morning, as the prototypes started. Here you go, Mr. Drasakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having listened to the representatives of all the parties, I would like to try in a short time to answer some of the questions raised. The first question is how did this plan come about and what procedures? The second is what its objectives are, what we are pursuing and what are the main pillars of this project. The third is how we will implement them, by what procedures, with which political and social forces, with which alliances. Of course there are other questions, but I think these are the most central ones, which, after all, is also fertile to discuss them, even if it has different opinions. As far as the first question is concerned, I must remind you that the planning deficit in our country is a time-consuming one. We needed a development plan before and before the crisis, and one of the reasons we went bankrupt, among other things, was that we had an anarchy, fragmentary, unequal way of development, despite the abundance of the resources we had, especially in recent years before the crisis. A first attempt, therefore, to develop a development plan was made before our government, in the previous government's term of office, based on the previous studies ‘McKinsey’, ‘HOBE’, ‘KEPE’, presented to the Eurogroup on 5 May 2014 - I am referring to the Government of Samara - Venizelos - an oligocelid text summary ‘Greece 2021’. We didn't find it at the Ministry. I have, however, found this text published in the 'CATHMERINA' of the respective period. This was the former government's development plan. I would expect Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennamas to have some restraint in the tone and in the way they spoke. This is the plan that the present government has submitted. It's not a matter of difference in volume or quantity. It's a qualitative difference. So this text, which shared you yesterday, has taken into account all the previous efforts and this effort, was based, above all, on the advancement that has taken place over the last three years. It was based on the advancement of the JRC by Minister Stathakis, the Development Council - which, in the meantime, was created by Mr Stathakis, but then by Mr Papademiriou - to come up with a final effort, taking into account all the data, with a committee under Mr Haritsis, which drafted the final text, firstly taking into account the many consultations that have taken place with social and productive bodies, the accumulation of valuable experience from open dialogue at regional conferences, as well as consultation, the comments we have received from the European institutions and proposals. We are therefore talking about a transparent, open process, the result of which is a phase, a first step in trying to design the future. It's not the final. It is, however, a bridge from the monumental management of the crisis in the new horizon that we want to create, in a plan for Greece of 2030 through which we will face not only wounds of the past, but we will also approach the new challenges of the future whether they are called the fourth industrial revolution or called the new role of our country in the wider space, a role that I must say that neighbouring countries also expect it to be more active and stronger in the future. As far as the second question is concerned, the Prime Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, mentioned several times. I would therefore like to repeat that in the phase that we are entering at the end of the memorandum, we are regaining sovereignty with regard to policy formulation. Any visits will come and any follow-ups will be carried out will be of the character they have in other countries. There will be no dose dependency, so that policies are imposed with which we will not agree. We therefore have greater degrees of freedom, but that is why we have greater responsibilities in designing our future. The crucial thing I think is not development in general. We've had growth in the past. The crucial is how we ensure that growth is economically stable and sustainable, how it will be ecologically sustainable and how it is socially fair. And this ambitious goal sets out the plan, the development strategy that we have shared with you. I could distinguish two pillars that condense this plan. The first is to create a new productive model resistant to crises, sustainable ecologically, fair socially, as I said, and to achieve this we must make choices. We have to decide that it was a mistake that we let the primary sector decline, it was a tragic mistake that we accepted the deindustrialisation of the country as a prefecture. We must expressly decide that the country's viability depends on enlargement and the qualitative upgrading of the production base, that the industry in traditional and modern sectors, along with primary production and tourism, and research, will become the main pillar of the new production model. In this direction, when you read the text, I believe you will see a new institutional arsenal of development. Don't just stay in the tide of the juncture. We are changing the way in which the country is developing. Firstly, we are forming sectoral and sectoral policies, which do not exist in most areas. Secondly, we are establishing policies and procedures for creating and strengthening inter-climate relations. It is not enough to develop tourism when tourists consume imported products, because then tourism is an import growth. It's not a development of the domestic economy. That is why we are investing a great deal of effort and we also have a response to connecting tourism with domestic production, linking agricultural production with processing, connecting energy with domestic added value, and so on. Thirdly, we are creating new funding instruments together with a development bank and it is not right that we do not have resources in general. Only the public funds available, as the programme says, over the next five years exceed EUR 45 billion to EUR 50 billion, without having put the resources from the banking system or other private bodies. Fourthly, we are creating a new type of relationship between the state and companies based on transparency, common rules and not customer relations, and what emerged from them. And in the Ministry of Development we found several skeletons, more than anyone would expect from this point of view. Fifth point. We encourage the creation of new institutions for the participation of society in the development process. We are creating a system of new collective subjects of development, because growth is not just done by the state and private business. Energy communities, social economy, micro-credits are a set of institutions that will allow people, citizens of cities, islands, rural areas themselves to have an active role in development. We have been solving problems for decades, because growth, and even with sustainability, cannot be solved without solving problems of forest maps, land registers and other planning conditions for land use and development. As far as the second pillar is concerned, I have to say that for us the social state is not a brake but a multiplier of development. That is precisely why, following the objectives of the UN's sustainable development incorporated into this plan, we are giving great weight to the simultaneous combined pursuit of both economic growth and ecological protection, as well as social protection and development. The third question is what powers. Many of the above measures and other measures which exist in the text can be found in programmes and other parties. Many are international good practices and experiences. But the whole plan, especially for our measures, is a clear break with the past, it has a clear ideological and political sign, and it is in conflict with every project that results from the neoliberal logic that markets are supposedly endogenous or through automation of the markets we can achieve economic and social objectives. In other words, this plan is the basis for a broad, progressive political and social alliance which can bring it to fruition. I would like to make two brief comments on this point. As far as the New Democracy is concerned, I think the problem, Mr President, is a methodological one. You are staying on assumptions that have been disproved. You have tried to respond to social problems with tools that have the opposite effect. You have not yet accepted that inequalities are not a natural order, but are a problem and a social one, but also a barrier to development. You cannot understand that some of the problems we are discussing, such as tax evasion, the paradox, the distorting entrepreneurship, are not short-term symptoms, but are identifiable attributes of peculiar, state-owned, Greek capitalism. So deep changes, ruptures in a progressive direction, so that we can create exactly what we call the new development model. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] As far as Mrs Gennamas and the Communist Party of Greece are concerned, the only point I want to make is that is is that isotopodism is not a proper method of political dialogue and political analysis. It may be underestimated that collective bargaining is returning. One may consider a secondary theme of whether we will have growth through services or whether we will have growth through a production base, through new technologies, through innovative activities, etc. These secondary issues, however, define people's lives, define the sustainability of society, define many factors. Therefore, at this stage it is precisely the criteria to choose the direction in which one will move, whether he wants a social state or whether he wants outsourcing, whether he wants social justice or whether he thinks that inequalities are acceptable or accelerate growth. With these considerations, I would therefore like to propose that this text be dealt with as it is, that is, as an important effort. For the first time in our country has a development plan, a project that is a product of dialogue and has tolerance, I will say, and the European institutions. It's not the end of effort. A lot of what I have heard, for example from Mr Theodorakis, are thoughts and remarks that could be discussed in an organised dialogue. It is precisely a framework for specialisation and enrichment, for dialogue and pursuit, for search for wider consensus. So look at it as such and I am sure that for those who do it, there will be a benefit from its understanding and use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u57	I am very grateful to Mr Giannis Drasakis, Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economy and Development. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Vagios Boeotia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me tell you that the first and largest circle of speeches and placements is over. There were ten locations, ten speeches. You know that Mr Tsakalotos will not do anything about it, he has already departed, his time was integrated. The main parliamentary representatives who have replaced Mr Michaloliakos and Mr Kammenos also had a speech they have already made. So in the second phase there will be seven speakers. The Prime Minister will have 15 minutes. Then there is Mrs. Gennimatas and Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Koutsoubas, Mr. Theodorakis and Mr. Leventis from ten minutes. Mr Drasakis will close this cycle and meet with his denology, unless the Prime Minister makes use - as has been the case in the Rules of Procedure - of a five-minute trilogy. However, he will inform the House himself. I believe that the general economy of the meeting has been kept and we can move on. The President and President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I have listened with great attention to Mrs Gennimata who has asked for today's debate. He had an extremely aggressive way, hours of arrogant, no time for supersoft, as if and because PASOK does not exist in the title of the party he represents here in the House, it means that the people he listens to us forgot he was ruling over the last few years, along with Mr Samaras even in 2010-2015. And I heard her asking for elections to be held many times now, for elections to be held today. In fact, he also criticises Mr Mitsotakis on the right that he does not ask for elections to be held today and calls for elections to be held after the country leaves the Memorandum. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Incorporation, because it does not do me the honour of hearing from Mrs Gennamas, if she is the same or someone else who sent a letter a few days ago - not only to me, but if I am not mistaken to all the political leaders - in which she pointed out how critical national importance the revision of the Constitution is, and even before this parliamentary term, which means, before the end of this government's term. Why? Because if the constitutional review process does not open - and it has been pointed out in its letter - then the Constitutional Review will go to the bells of 2023 and put it in. So I wonder first whether he is the same person who sent me this letter a few weeks ago or is someone else or exactly what has changed. What has changed and is calling today in such an urgent way for elections, a few days, a few weeks before the last evaluation is completed and before the country leaves the memorandum? In other words, to make this understandable, elections now mean not getting out of the Memorandum. Nor did Mr Mitsotakis dare formulate it either. Why? Because he obviously has a basic sense of reality and he knows that if he says that, first of all, his own people on the market, to social players, to social partners, they will come out and get him on the hunt, such as Mr Michalos of EVEA, who said to all tons that it is a disastrous choice for the elections at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u59	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u60	I see you're a little upset, Mr. Kegeroglu. I know. It's okay, let's be a little upset. You'll hear them now. Or they would come out of the Association of Tourism Enterprises and they would say that we are in the best summer the country has ever seen in tourism with a record that we expect to break this year with almost 30 million tourists and say, "But, what do you say? Is that possible? Do you have your mind on your head?" And above all, not just the market representatives, but I would say that those who are serious people, in any case, are placed in the political things of the place on the basis of logic. But you, Mrs. Gennamas, are asking for elections now. Yes, sir. And what's your argument? Your argument is before we complete the last assessment to ask the Greek people. It has caught a great deal of sensitivity to ask your Greek people, that is, your party, who did not ask anyone to bring the International Monetary Fund into the first Memorandum, nor to join Mr Samaras, to enter the second Memorandum, nor when your predecessor decided to destroy the insurance funds with the PSI, you asked anyone. Now you have caught your sensitivity and you are asking us, just before we fulfill the mandate given by the Greek people in September 2015, with the agreement at the table - a mandate that it gave us - to conclude this agreement and to get the country out of the memorandum, to look again for it. Fortunately, your view, Mrs Gennamas, is not shared by all your allies in the Change Movement as far as I know. And I think he's personally hurting you. It hurts you to drag behind those on your side of the line see the revival of the Samara - Venizelos coexistence, this disastrous and the social-democratic co-operation of PASOK - New Democracy, as a board of their personal salvation, at least political. But - I do not understand - you do not listen to us, your partners in Europe, your partners from the Socialist Party, do you not listen to them? You belong in the same Eurogroup. Didn't you hear Mr. Bullman, the head of the Eurogroup, who called on all the progressive political parties in Greece to join forces on the common road to the future of the country, which cannot be a setback? And he stressed - I read his words -: 'I see no improvement if the country's governance is re-taken by New Democracy, which has the greatest responsibility for the country's sinking into chaos'. I'm using his own words, not mine, not what I'm telling you. In any case, the time will come to talk about this. I'm coming now to Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u61	We were worried!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u62	I'm afraid you're worried, and that's why I'm coming to Mr. Mitsotakis. You were worried that I wouldn't take care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u63	I've had my face cut. I've been worried for now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u64	Mr Mitsotakis, your concern, your embarrassment, and your inability to put you on the essentials of the economy, has been shown by your choice to begin your speech with another subject. I do not underestimate it as a matter of fact, but you started with it, namely the subject of violence. I would therefore like to condemn in the most emphatically terms the unacceptable threats that you have accepted on the Internet and the implied ones that have been written against you by someone who calls himself an 'anarchist' and 'Member of the Ruvikon'. I would like to say to you that they are equally condemned and condemned, both with the countless threats and the implied and correct accusations and the direct threats that we have received both from both myself and from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, with letters and messages and letters, with packages that have also had bullets and missiles in recent times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u65	The missiles were from Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u66	It's not funny, Mr. Mitsotakis. Like it wasn't funny, and what happened yesterday to you, so these bullet letters...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u67	With lesions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u68	Yeah, it was a little projection. Can I tell you the diameter now? Ask Mr. Toska. Is that your problem? The problem is there and it is that the political life of the place is indeed undermined by the behaviour of extreme elements. But, Mr Mitsotakis, I have - and I shall say this very clearly and directly - the feeling that this alarming moment in the country - is unlike what you have said in your interviews in political magazines abroad - is an outburst of nationalism, nationalism, a dangerous rise in the far-right. And I see this not worrying you, as it did not worry you when - not to me and to Kotzia, but to the three hundred Members of this Parliament and to you yet - it came to light a letter to all Greek elected MPs from certain cultural associations who call themselves palmacedonian associations, which was directly threatening the Members that if they accept, if they vote on an agreement with the northern neighbouring country with a complex name containing the term 'Macedonia', it means that they suffer from offences, as they were saying, which were lifelong or death. There was no particular concern on your part about this. And we arrived at this atrocious incident, which, of course, we all condemned, in the incident of pre-collecting, beating at a public event by the Mayor of Thessaloniki, by Giannis Boutaris. And you criticised me here today for the statement that I made immediately after a few hours of beating on the internet, where I described the perpetrators as "neutral right bulls" and not an indignant crowd. What exactly's wrong with you? Obviously, it did not seem to you that this statement had no intention of defending the perpetrators to the extent that they would prove to be an indignant crowd. But what hurt you is that I described them as "neutral right". And why did you mind me calling them "neutral right"? Because you're ruined by the account, the dominant account. So I remind you what you said in an internationally valid magazine: that in Greece there is no violence from the extreme right, only violence from the extreme left and that the Golden Dawn is as if there is no. And if you want to support this account - I don't know if you believe it or if you do it because in your party you're surrounded by strains that either have nursed or are in a parallel ideological course with the extreme right - the reason why the narrative breaks out is that it puts things in place. So you were disturbed, and that is why when the mayor was beaten, because you have this record, you made a statement of almost equal distances with the known "we condemn violence wherever it comes". When I hear about an incident so specific and with such a clear cause that it causes it to come out, a communication which says 'I condemn wherever it comes from', I draw a conclusion. What 'wherever it comes', Mr Mitsotakis? Didn't you understand where this attack came from? Don't you understand? You don't want to understand where this attack came from! If I, ladies and gentlemen, had a member of the Central Committee of SYRIZA and mayor of a large city, which was just a few minutes after this incident making a statement and said 'good for the traitor', could I stand? If I, ladies and gentlemen, had a former executive and a former regional leader and a vindicator of my party's leadership to make statements at the very time of propaganda and trabucism and say that the mayor of Thessaloniki is a "political tramble" and I did not condemn this position, could I stand? But you, Mr Mitsotakis, have the courage not only to stand but also to attack me. While at the same time you did not dare dismiss your mayor from the organs of the New Democracy that said "goodly did to him the traitor". So this is the difference between ethos and political positions, between you and me. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I now come to what I said to the Ministerial Council yesterday and lifted your wrath. Look, New Democracy is a party that since post-multiple and then had a clear separating line, but also an ideological front - from post-multiple, and then I say! - with parties and persons of the extreme right - not only those who had an activity in the collectives of an extreme form, but also with what one might say 'politically correct expression', 'policy correct', as they say in my village. At the beginning of post-Population there was a party called ENPEN, which had collected all the nostalgics of the dictatorship, the dictator Papadopoulos, the head of which was Mr Vorides at the time. Later, when New Democracy and Kostas Karamanlis became government again, there was a clear separation with the creation of the People's Orthodox Alert party, who objected to the Karamanlis Government, which had good time, and the Macedonian government had a clear position that is this position that our country is now defending in the negotiations. This government objected and asked for a debate on the agenda and strongly criticised you. Today, however, the torso of this party, which is self-sufficient in the field of the extreme right, the extreme right, is a leading wing in your party, Mr Mitsotakis, in the New Democracy. In any case, you will find these between you two. I would like to make it quite clear today that I am also against the history and the responsibility we have with regard to the history of this country, because I represent a fact which has taken a great deal. And you know, our people have memory and conscience. So the Left in this place, Mr. Mitsotakis, has always been in the position of the persecutor, not the persecutor. The violence of both the state and the paratrooper has been suffered for years in the landslides, prisons, and also in the streets. From Lambraki and Tsarouha to Kommis and Kanellopoulou and from Nikos Tempnera to Paulos Fissa. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So do not open up this debate, in this aggressive way, to those of us that we represent here in the chairs a very long story. And you need to know to distinguish the words of political rhetoric, which often can also take the character of war rhetoric from the tricycle, Mr Mitsotakis. Because what happened the other day in Thessaloniki reminds of other times, times of Godzamanies, which democracy will never allow them to return. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I now come to the point you have also raised concerning the name, the issue of the crucial negotiation with our northern neighbour. You said, Mr Mitsotakis, it is unacceptable for the Greek Government to discuss the proposal put on the table by the other side. First of all, the Greek Government was clearly placed on this issue and in a timely manner I too sought the best possible information and consultation. We said from Sofia, before I came back, in my statements at the press conference that we still have a very important way to go, despite the fact that we have made progress, to have an agreement and that priority for us, for the Greek side, is to ensure erga omnes and constitutional review. As you have seen, we have had a significant progress on this issue. Mr Zaev is the first Prime Minister of the Neighbourhood, who has publicly accepted this prospect of a complex name Erga omnes, with a constitutional review. You have never seen this before in the times when your party was in the negotiating governments, as well as we have never seen so much pressure being exerted on the nationalist opposition of our neighbouring country today. We have clearly stated that we are negotiating on the basis of four names proposed by the United Nations, namely the package of proposals by the envoy, Mr Nimic. I will no longer speak of the substance of the negotiations, since the Foreign Minister is in New York at this time and tomorrow he will continue to negotiate. But, Mr Mitsotakis, you are right in one. Our government and every progressive government discusses, when negotiating, it is not hiding. Especially as it concerns our national issues, we have never been hidden, as you have been hiding and changed positions. You hid behind the most conservative forces of your resignation. Above all, we are not in any mood to confuse national issues, as your predecessor has been robbed, so that he can then take away your father's government, make a political career and come here today and hide other issues behind his position on national issues. We are talking, disagree, but we are negotiating and trying to find solutions. However, we are not hiding on any subject, as we have shown in the Cyprus issue, our relationship with Turkey and Albania, and now with the nomination. Because that is the only way we believe that we can open a way in the future, so that Greece can regain its role, its role in the Balkan region, in Europe, but also in the world, instead of being caught in reactionary reflexes and fearful syndromes, as we saw a few days ago in Thessaloniki. I come to economic matters. Mr. Mitsotakis, at your location you made a deliberate mistake. You said we had an election in September 2015, having the Thessaloniki programme. Obviously and remember that there was Thessaloniki, that there was the agreement we had reached with very great difficulties - a difficult compromise - and it was on the table. You said this conscious lie, because what hurts you, in trying to convince the Greek people, saves and well that we deceived him, is precisely that fact, that we gave all our powers to a difficult and hard negotiation to implement his mandate. When we were in a dead end, we came back, told him the truth, and again we asked for his order. So, did you come here today to compare what, Mr. Mitsotakis? Comparing - as we have seen in tables - the growth rates of Greece at the corresponding pace of other eurozone countries? You presented to us a chart, which relates to the fourth quarter of 2017. You compared Greece with Germany, the Netherlands and other countries, which, I would remind you, have come out of the financial adjustment programmes for some time now, for the past three, four or five years, if we take Ireland, for example. But let me remind you, Mr Mitsotakis, what is our difference with these countries? These countries, even those with memoranda, have not launched their debt to 180% of GDP, as our country's debt has been deported during the government of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos. 120% went to 180% of GDP. This is your accomplishment. I don't suppose you have the nerve to say it's the SYRIZA's fault. Of course, I would remind you, since you compare Greece with Cyprus, that Cyprus has made deposits cuts, Mr Mitsotakis. Is that what you're asking us to do? But you also came to compare the IMF's or the Commission's forecasts with the actual results, i.e. orange apples. Do you want me to remind you that the Commission and the International Monetary Fund provided for marginal growth in 2011, and we finally ended up with a 10% recession? Do you want me to remind you that in 2012 again the IMF, but also the Commission, predicted growth close to 1% and we ended up with a recession of 6.5%? I have told you many times that you cannot make comparisons between forecasts and results, but you insist on this. You also told us various about the supposed sustainability of the debt in 2014, referring to these IMF forecasts. In the end, do you agree with Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos' views at the time, who said that there is no need to restructure the debt, but we just need to get a viability certificate, saying everywhere that our debt is sustainable? At the same time as you said this, you were constantly referring to the commitment to debt regulation that you allegedly had taken since 2012. Finally, since the debt was sustainable, why did you seek a commitment to restructuring? Also, Mr Mitsotakis, since you have gone to the trouble of bringing tables and wanting to make comparisons, I should also like to give you some tables that are indicative of us. The first and most important issue is unemployment. Unemployment was launched from 2010 to 2014 to 27%, to reduce today by seven percentage points. This is a characteristic diagram, which shows how unemployment has risen in the first years of Mr Papandreou's PASOK. Characteristics shows a little man climbing a plane ladder. In the years of Mr Papademos he was launched as a rocket and in the years of Mr Samaras reached radioactive levels. Today we are pleased to have a dive - which is why we have a diver in the chart I am showing you - in the years when we are ruling unemployment from 27% to 20%. That's a painting I give you, Mr. Mitsotakis. For us, unemployment is a crucial indicator of social equilibrium. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Corresponding indicators can also be found for the performance of the ten-year bond, which shows how far Mr Papandreou has been Prime Minister and has reached radioactive levels when Mr Samaras was Prime Minister. Today we have caught the lower of the last 12 years with regard to the performance of the ten-year Greek government bonds. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] You also talked about investments. You want to talk about investments? I will also give you this table, which demonstrates that in 2017 this 'destructive' government reached direct foreign investments of almost 3.6 billion, the largest that has happened in the country since 2008, before the crisis, with a Karamanlis government of 3 billion. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] But you also told us about the famous cash buffer. You told us again how inaccurate you were. You told us that the infamous 'cushion' would be created by the surplus, i.e. the non-payment of pensions, from the public's dues, which, incidentally, are constantly falling and we have reached a low crisis. There has been no lower limit on government dues since we entered the Memorandum. So you've told us a lot. I wonder if what you told us you were looking for or just exposing you to some of your partners. Let me inform you, then, that the cash buffer is derived from the disbursements of the ESM and from the country's exits to the markets, which it has already carried out two years ago. No relationship, that is, with what you said. But it's okay. You have also reached the point where you can tell us that we are presenting you with a development plan secretly, while we have held fourteen regional conferences, we have discussed with all the players in local government, the productive bodies where you invited the mayors of the New Democracy not to participate. You should've known we've had a lot of dialogue. But you told us the nicest of all, because once you missed him and said that you were interested in communication and not the essence. You missed it, I know, but your speeches always have the communist writing to make slogans. And what did you tell us? Nice slogan: "The clean exit is Mr. Tsipra's new dirty lie." Nice slogan! Just tell us, Mr. Mitsotakis: is this a dirty lie by Mr. Tsipras, but is it also a dirty lie by Mr. Juncker, the President of the Commission, who came and told it from this one? Does the Commission lie dirtyly? You say the same when you go to the European People's Party? Do you make the same statements when you get out of the country with what you're doing here? You told us - and if it's a nerve! - that we raise the minimum wage we created the generation of 300 euros. Can I remind you, Mr Mitsotakis, that in 2012 and with your signature did you reduce the minimum wage by 22% for young people by 32%? Can I remind you that part-time 2012 was 40% and when we took over in 2015 it was 60%? Within three years you have managed to destroy every protectionist error for the worker in the labour market and especially for young workers. And you have the courage to tell us that we have created the generation of 300 euros! And of course you have the same courage, repetitive, and for pensions, you who voted for the zero deficit clause that we prevented, you who together with the PASOK as a whole have imposed eleven successive cuts of EUR 45 billion. We do not now need to make any particular criticism here! I will not go far enough, ladies and gentlemen, because I am already far away. I will only mention two minutes of what you have heard as proposals. It really has a special interest, because once again you have come to this Step and tell us that you will reduce taxation, Mr Mitsotakis. In fact, you told us about the income tax scale that should be at 9%, and the small ones will be at 20%. If I'm not mistaken, that's what you said. I want to ask you, Mr. Mitsotakis. You say all of this clearly by saying in advance - I hear from your members - that you will not question the financial framework agreed by the country, because you say that you will not do what SYRIZA has done, that you are a serious political force. In other words, you say, in a word, that in this budgetary framework you will come to reduce taxation so radically. I'm with you, below dropping taxation. But can you tell us, Mr. Mitsotakis, where will you fill the gap? How many schools are you going to book? How many hospitals will you book? How many are you going to fire? How much overpaid medical staff from the hospitals will you fire? Why don't you dare give answers? You say you have a costly program. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And since I am referring to surplus staff, I would like to see you, Mr Mitsotakis, explain to us whether you insist that the country should return to 1 to 5 and not to 1 to 1 that we have agreed on in the public service. And one last, that for the excess medical staff. Are you insisting on this? The vast majority of Greeks go to public hospitals. He doesn't have the financial capacity to go to private hospitals. I want an answer as to whether you're insisting on that logic. And I close, Mr Mitsotakis, by telling you this: Today you have not escaped the temptation to cast a little - once again, of course - at the level of the debate, by relocating one of the favourite news that we have seen in the past few days on newspaper headlines, a populist cutting, I would say, which they support. And what was that? Pablo Iglesias of Podemos, who got a loan, says, to get home to Madrid - I don't know exactly - 400-500 thousand euros. Of course, we should not now talk about what is happening in Madrid, about the representatives of the Right Party, who one after another are going through the prosecutors for what has been abused in the past. But it's an impression to me. People say that the hanged man's house doesn't talk about a rope, but you came here to tell us about Iglesias who got a loan to get home. Mr. Mitsotakis, he didn't buy a house with offshore, he didn't buy Voltaire's house, he doesn't have a house next to Mr. Christoferkos' house, with a swimming pool. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Be a little more consistent and lower in your tone on these issues. In your health!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-seven students and students and eighteen educational attendants from the Special Education and Training Laboratory of Chania, as well as twenty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st High School of Lassithi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please very much Mrs Fotini (Phot) Gennimata, President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u70	Prime Minister, I can assure you that it is not a threat to the country to stop the negotiation, but rather an opportunity. Everyone knows in this place that every time you negotiate only new evils come for Greeks and Greeks. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I was amazed to hear your sensitivity, because the PASOK governments were not supposed to inform the Greek people. And I am amazed to say, Mr Prime Minister, you really need a lot of courage to get up in this step, you who have declared a referendum and the 'no' you have done 'yes' overnight and talk about respecting the Greek people's view of the Greek people! You've been caught now, and the pain in the Constitution. Two years you have announced that you will be taking initiatives and even extra-parliamentary procedures for the revision of the Constitution, but you do not dare to go any further. You do not want to go ahead and you did not respond to our request. Do you know why? You've become much faster than the old one. You don't want anything to change. We are today expressing the new in the political life of this country, and we want to change what keeps this country doomed. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You are now talking to us about what Mr. Juncker says and what the partners say. But indeed, Mr Tsipras, the only ones who, from now on, have a clear exit from their obligations towards Greece are the partners and lenders. Why would they say something different? Are people gonna lie? They're telling the truth. The question is what obligations and what commitments we have and what is the prospect of the country and the people? As for this political embassy, you can see the far right-wing people when they are away, but when they are very close to you, not to see them and to teach us who we need to work with and who we need to speak with, let me tell you, Mr Tsipras. We have drawn up an autonomous course, a self-powered strategy, and we are the only ones here today who have presented five pillars for what it means national line and exit really from the crisis and the memoranda. And when the election time comes, this proposal will be put to the table and I invite you all to come and see what needs to be done about the place. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Unfortunately, you have not even spoken today about the substance. There have been generalities, excruciations, jokes and, of course, constant references to the past, paradoxical with some exceptions, because there are times excluded from your word and criticism. Of course, today you went to say something and I got better. I say: Here, finally, he started talking about the responsibilities of the New Democracy. Why did you talk about those who went bankrupt the country and then put it in the memoirs? Until first you said the memorials brought judgment and bankruptcy. I say: Here he is at last referring to the responsibilities of the New Democracy Government from 2004 to 2009. But then, you just went to say something about the debt, you forgot everything. No, there was no debt, the PASOK government received nothing from the Government of New Democracy. As a miracle, you have deleted these from your memory and I wonder: when will you cover them and what is it finally bound to you? But I want you to answer us directly, because we are at a critical crossroads, because you have not told us anything at all, Prime Minister, about what will eventually happen with the public debt, what the plan you are negotiating with is. It is obvious that your tactics have failed so far. So what are your alliances? What is your specific design for implementing Eurogroup decisions both in 2012 and in recent years? Unless you finally move into logic "what they give us, what we get". The second issue. You have committed yourself to shameful primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP for five years. You have done so with tax relief and cuts in public spending. Only in the first four months of 2018 have you caused reductions in hospital expenditure by 294 million. Don't worry. You will not leave a public hospital to shut down Mr. Mitsotakis, who I very much doubt will be the next Prime Minister, as you think or as you are trying. You have become the best sponsor of the New Democracy, Mr. Tsipras, with your policy. You'll have it closed. You've let them fall apart. Only in April in public investment expenditure we have a reduction of EUR 229 million. Have you realised that reducing the primary surplus targets is a condition for the survival of the economy and society? Does it concern you that by achieving these unthinkable primary surpluses it seems to be gaining ground ever more and more a very dangerous concept which can transform the sacrifices of Greek citizens into boomerangs at their expense? What is this perception? The logic that there is no need to implement debt relief measures at present, precisely because of these high surpluses. It's fine, he says, you do it. They do not know, of course, that this is where the Greek people have kneeled. You have squattered the neck of the country, Mr. Tsipras, and it seems that this is none of your business. Third matter. You're talking about a clear exit from the memoirs. In addition to the fact that you have pre-empted measures for the coming years, for pensions, for tax-free, what kind of committee do you finally haggle? We've heard different versions. It appears that it will be over-intensive in relation to the other countries. Of course, there will be no 'HILTON' steps for 'tea and sympathy'. Will our partners or not decide on Eurogroup and new measures if they are not satisfied, and even in the absence of the Greek Government? Fourth. You took the responsibility of creating this financial "cushion", through overcrowding, repos and expensive lending. Of course it does not miss us that this is how you are raising the debt today. Do you think this ensures the country when growth rates remain below 2% and the necessary progressive reforms are left to the bells? Have you understood what message the use of this 'cushion' will send to the markets, what kind of explosion can be caused by the country's borrowing interest rates? Of course, we have heard for the first time - and I have noted it and it is interesting - that the Prime Minister admits that the 'false' lies in the logic of his negotiation of the 'credit prevention line'. Obviously, the 'clean exit' was blurred and the new political deception operation collapsed. Fifth point is that you have told us nothing at all about the red loans and the protection of first residence, which is, of course, inexistent. This grievance of the banks you do does not help either the management of red loans or the financing of the real economy. The sixth point concerns the law of Katrugalo and the new pension reduction, which you have agreed and signed. You have not answered us: will you continue to support the Katrugalu law that undermines social security? It has been heard many times and it has become very common that the review that PASOK has been cut so many times and has reduced pensions. When these cuts were made so many years ago, there was a general government deficit of 35 billion on an annual basis. You cut them now to achieve the surplus that you have agreed to, just to remain in power. The difference is huge and it shows exactly your perception. And it has nothing to do with this concept, nor with a progressive government, nor with the values and principles of the Left. On the contrary, it makes them rags. So lies are literally over. Mr. Tsakalotos very cynically admitted to targeting this excess, so he could then share it with those who want, with his own customer logic. And then he comes to the House and tells us that the PASOK and the Change Movement have remained far behind. Indeed, we cannot follow his catastrophe. As for green, red and orange lights, which he used to tell us before, it is obvious that he had too much time in the Syntagma Square to monitor the changes of the lights when he played in antimony populism, along with Mr Varoufakis and the Golden Dawn! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Yeah, we're staying back! We cannot follow this downhill, especially today that you, your entire government, have become the right hand of lenders. We have heard a lot of 'necessary' and a lot of 'will', particularly in terms of labour relations, wages and undeclared work. I have an allergy when I hear a government using 'need' and 'will'. Who has prevented you so many years from implementing these intentions and policies? And you come after so long today with the holistic plan to add other "will" and other promises and other "must" that will never happen, why will you not, apart from not wanting? And how, really, do you reduce unemployment and you're proud of it? Do you know what you're doing? You share a job in two, with flexible forms of employment and a salary of EUR 390. If that's why you triumph, well done, congratulations! Ladies and gentlemen, a single conclusion comes out of this debate today and it is what confirms why I asked for the debate to be held and that the country should proceed directly to elections: in order for the memoranda to become a past, you, Mr Tsipras, must become a political past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u71	The floor is now held by the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u72	Mr Tsipras, I have heard you at the end of your speech repeat several times the motto: "Greece is not coming back". I thought something reminds me of this slogan and I raised my memory a little bit. It is the slogan used by Constantine Mitsotakis in the 1993 elections. I am just telling you this so that you know it, because it may be that your communicators want to use it in the election campaign as well: do not report, because as you know about us, unfortunately, this was an election that did not go very well. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are going, Mr Tsipras, on the issue of the 'Ruvikon'. Welcome to the condemnation of the threat, which was branded by the surnamed “Ruvikon” leader. I can tell you that as far as I'm concerned I'm concerned, they've chosen, because threats to me, but also to New Democracy, they don't pass. But the problem - you know - is not so much the fact that an organisation is targeting itself in this way or by implying a political leader. The biggest problem, Mr. Tsipras, is that you and the past few days did not give the necessary attention to the other posters made by the "Ruvicon" regarding the attacks he made on the Council of State, with what he did to the Municipality of Tinos, in the way he faces embassies, in which he attacks undisturbed. I read Mr Kalaijidis's post on the attack on the Council of State, where he says: 'The ground floor of the Council of State has been levelled, we have given a message to all these lame - judges' and others. How is it possible - and I put it in the Minutes - for a favoured state to tolerate such posts, but also such actions, once you know who is doing so? They're not hiding, they're telling you. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do you do exactly about it? I'd dare ask what justice is doing, but what are you doing? Have you ever arrested any of these gentlemen? I remember the last time they had entered the House that we gave them about and the cars to get them back from where they came from. So the question of 'Rubicon', Mr Tsipras, is very clear and what I blame you for is very specific: You are showing selective tolerance to these groups. You should understand that democratic normality and "Ruviks" do not go together and you should choose which one you will ultimately be protecting. I now come to the question of how we dealt with the attack by the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Mr Boutaris, as a new Republic. I want to use this example to demonstrate to the National Representation the great comfort you have of distorting facts and statements. In your dentistry you referred to the fact that we condemned the attack without saying who provoked it, that we took equal distances. So I read you the statement that we first made before SYRIZA and the other parties were placed about the attack on Mr. Boutaris: "The New Democracy condemns in the most unequivocal way the attack by the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Yiannis Boutaris. The perpetrators of today' - take note - 'a fascist patriot attack must be immediately arrested'. That's what we said, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Either your partners aren't telling you right or you're lying consciously. I really hope it's the first. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As to your effort systematically to claim that New Democracy has some kind of ideological affinity with the Golden Dawn, look: You along with the Golden Dawn threw the previous government. Don't forget! You tried with the Golden Dawn to change the electoral law. I still remember Mr. Voutsi's statement that you are at the hundreds of ninety-seven, because at that time you measured the Golden Dawn in the calculations...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u73	I haven't made that kind of statement, but go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u74	How have you not done it? I'll find her and bring her to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u75	You won't find her anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u76	It's okay. I think we all have... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Voutsi, you're messing with us! One sit there, one sit down. Decide where you want to be. In any case, Mr Tsipras, take a look at your co-pilot. I would remind you that you and Mr. Panos Kammenos and the Independent Greeks. You want to tell me that the Independent Greeks are a party of the moderate liberal center. Isn't that right? Because they're sitting in the center, they're moderate. Let's get a little serious! We don't know each other here? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I'm wondering: is something not going well lately, Mr. Tsipras, in co-government? Mr. Kammenos has not been present in plenary for a couple of months. Mr Panos Kammenos does not seem lately to be extremely willing to defend the government's choices. All that unites you and Mr. Kammenos is ethnicism and chair. Nothing else. You have no ideological affinity and the Independent Greeks are clearly placed on the right of the New Democracy. So these selective affinity between the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn leave them. Now, as regards your reference to Mr Psimadis, I think you are asking the wrong man. I guess Mrs. Gennamas should ask why, as far as I know, Mr. Psomadis voted in the elections. So I think you all understand that we're talking about cases where in no case can they be identified... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I don't know who voted, but that's the reality. He's made a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u77	Doesn't it belong to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u78	No, it doesn't belong to us. There has been no connection between Mr Psomadis and New Democracy for a long time. Besides, he said it himself. What did you say, Mr. Tsipras? What did you say? You told us that you were negotiating, you told us that it was a great success that the Skopje finally seemed to adopt what we actually imposed as a national line, not just the 'erga omnes', but also the change of the constitution. Only I'm afraid you saw the cheese here, but you didn't see the lightning. The problem with the name "Democracy of Iliden" is about the fact that the name itself is a symbol of the coastal moods of the neighbouring country. Because I asked you directly whether or not you rejected this name and didn't answer, I guess...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u79	I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u80	You didn't answer. You can say clearly in your trilogy: we are not discussing the name 'Ilinden Republic'. Say it, to clarify at least what happens with this matter. I take the view that this issue is still on the table. I imagine maybe that's why Mr. Penns and Mrs. Merkel contacted you. The impression you're giving is that it's something you've already agreed on, and now you're rethinking it again. So answer clearly and clearly before the National Representation if that name is still at the table. In any case, as I have said before, be careful when you negotiate. When you negotiate on your own - and especially at night - nothing good arises for the country from such negotiations. That's enough damage you've done to the economy. We do not need to add any other harm to national issues as well. I now come to economic matters. Let me start with this very nice chart with Mr. Papandreou on a ladder, Mr. Papademos on a rocket, but also some radioactive symbols. Except you got a little messed up, 'cause you probably gave the chart without seeing what it looks like. The chart clearly shows the rapid de-escalation of spreads since the government took over. But don't you see it, Mr. Tsipras? So I should normally add a submarine with your own logic. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What can I tell you? When you handle such things, it is good to look at and testify in the Minutes, because you may be exposed. As we speak of diagrams, there has been a great deal of talk about public debt, which is undoubtedly a very serious matter. I proved with very specific evidence that the public debt during the IMF was considered viable in 2014 and ceased to be viable in 2017. You have not responded to this, but no matter how important the public debt is, no matter how important it is to the citizens who are listening to us today is to private debt, Mr Tsipras. So I will show you a table more, which is typical of the result of your own policy on the average Greek. Look, Mr. Tsipras, what this painting looks like. This is private debt, it is late tax debts and it is also due insurance debts. In 2014, the amount, the sum of private individuals’ debts to the public, tax and insurance funds was EUR 85 billion. In 2017 this figure was evicted to 132 billion and then you are accounted for because we are calling for a reduction in taxes and a reduction in contributions. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because you have led the economy to absolute suffocation, you have undermined public revenue and you have undermined the soundness of the insurance funds. Because the sum of tax and insurance costs is no longer managed for the vast majority of Greeks, hence two million Greeks owe tax, many of whom owe small amounts, but these small amounts too are unable to pay or regulate. Let me briefly say again what the three tales are, the three new lies you have repeated in your denture. 'We're getting out of the memoranda.' So I ask you, Mr Tsipras, that the mechanism of increased supervision, which you have agreed on, is the same mechanism as that used by Portugal, Ireland and Cyprus? The answer is 'no'. I will keep what Mrs Gennamas said and I would like you to clarify it in your tritology. You referred to the preventive line. First of all, you said that the New Democracy is calling for a preventive line. I've never asked for a preventive line, never! You will stop lying in this Chamber. We have never called for a preventive line in today's juncture as a New Democracy. What we have said is that you must ensure that the country is able to borrow at reasonable rates. Do you feel comfortable, Mr. Tsipras, today with the loan rates at 4.5% to get out on the markets and to meet the country's loan needs? Why is this the course of interest rates? But you will tell me that they increased a little because of Italy and increased everywhere. Yes, but the difference with interest rates, the spreads of Portugal and Cyprus remains the same. Why, if the course of the economy was so successful over the three years, did interest rates not confuse? You said: 'What else did Ireland and Cyprus finally have? They had nothing different." They didn't have a SYRIZA government. That was the different they had. They had serious governments that did their job. This accident only occurred to us! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second reason why there is no clear exit - I will repeat him, because you systematically refuse to comment on him - is that you have adopted measures for 2019 and 2020, tax cuts and tax reductions. This has not happened in any other country. This is, in fact, the fourth memorandum, which you have agreed without funding. If you really believe that there is a clear way out today, there is a very easy solution. So please legislate in the House, abolish pension cuts, abolish the tax reduction, and indeed you will be trusted when you speak of a net exit. Until you do, obviously, and you have no persuasiveness when you claim that the exit will be clean. The second point you're insisting on is that the economy is overreacting. I have told you before: do not interfere with budgetary overcompensation, which is the result of a brutal tax raid, with the return of the economy. Economic performance is the rate of growth. The growth rate is sad. I presented the data for 2015, for 2016 and for 2017. There was no reason, Mr Tsipras, for Greece not to have the same course as Portugal and Cyprus. The only reason was for you and what you did in the first half of 2015. That's why we didn't have that course. If you believe yourself in the theory of spring - Mr Drasakis, you are also an economist - you should accept that the deeper the recession, the greater the ability to eject the spring. The fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u81	You're saying the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u82	Oh, the opposite now. Yes, sir. Then you canceled the spring theory, which you have been defending for so long. What differentiates Greece from Cyprus and Portugal was the disastrous first half of 2015, which you will answer in the next election, for the simple reason that you were not magically reckoned with the fact that you were elections in September 2015. Not all of this has been forgotten. The pension cuts and tax reductions are the tail, they are the result of this catastrophic policy. The fact that banks no longer belong to the Greek State is the result of this catastrophic policy. We still have Capital Controls. You're talking about entrepreneurship, you're talking about exports, when you still have capital controls. All this is the result of this disastrous policy. The third, of course, great lie is that your policy has social significance, that you, as good and consistent left, are here above all for the weakest. You have cut the EASA, reduced the social solidarity allowance, increased the VAT, which hits the weakest, the special energy tax, you have cut off the heating allowance. Tell me: All these rich get beaten or the poor? The reality is that the poor have become poorer over your days. You are talking - and I am prepared to have this debate on another occasion - about the framework in which the minimum wage should be shaped. I too believe in free collective bargaining - I have said so many times - but you do not think it appropriate to repeat this in this Chamber. I wonder, however, when you first impose a tax reduction and tax those who take EUR 580 or EUR 600 or EUR 620 or as much as the minimum wage can, will they benefit from their available income? They can earn 20 euros from the minimum wage increase and you will get them more than one wage behind the increase in taxation. So the reality, Mr Tsipras, is that you are not here for the weakest, as the weakest are the ones affected by your policy. When you call on the unemployment figures, take care of them a little and look at them in greater depth, because a large part of them are subsidised programmes, many of which are not even paid, while another large part of them are part-time jobs that are not paying well, and you first and foremost know that. Look, I have a different philosophy. Yes, we want to alleviate the state and reduce taxation. You want a global state and big taxes. That's our big difference. If we want to identify it ideologically, that's our big difference. You have called on us because we want to contain the number of recruitments. But why? I don't wear rocked rabbits. I know that if we do not make an additional package in the state, we cannot easily reduce taxes. So what does it matter for us? We need growth and wealth creation. So yes, we're from two different worlds to that. So stay with this tax, stay with the great state, stay with your clienteles, stay with the special secretaries you're supposedly appointed, but you're actually pointing to them with photographic notices. That's who you are! You are, that is, the reincarnation of all the problems that have actually brought the country into bankruptcy in 2009 and 2010. I'm finishing up with something that I found interesting. You said another lie, Mr. Tsipras. You said that I ask investors not to invest in our country. Mr. Tsipras, that's a lie. Whether within or outside Greece, I always ask investors to invest in our country, for the very simple reason that I know what will become politically and I can guarantee them political visibility and a business and tax environment good for investment. I say to them 'if you want to come and invest now', looking forward, yes, to a political change. That's what I'm saying. But let us remember a little, you say that I scare investors, Mr. Tsipras, what you said in 2014. ‘Alexis Tsipras. SYRIZA's commitment to cancel the privatisation of IPTO." I put aside the fact of what you did next, because it doesn't matter, because it was another monumental asshole. What did you say then?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u83	What did we do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u84	No, I'll tell you what you were saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u85	But what have we done to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u86	"That is why we say that this perspective will be prevented," said Alexis Tsipras in September. "And it is not a threat, but a statement of intent. Those who come to speculate by jeopardising the country's energy security, to calculate it for the second time. They will lose their money, but they will also be held accountable to the law." Mr. Tsipras, who are you kidding? Take it here and give it to Mr. Tsipras to remember what he was saying! So, to refresh his memory. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you're accusing us that we're scaring investors? Welcome, Mr Tsipras, are all the investors who want to invest in our country and are welcome for the simple reason that we believe in the prospects of the country. Because we believe in our ability next day to make the lives of investors easier, with rules, with a new and brave agreement of truth between venture capital and political leadership, we will ensure lower taxation, better liquidity, easier licensing. Employers will look after their employees, give them incentives, take care of the environment and show corporate social responsibility. This is the truth agreement that we are proposing to the business community for the next day. Yes, they will come to invest the next day, Mr. Tsipras, and Greece will finally be able to see the growth rates that you proved impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u88	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Tsipras, would you like to quantify?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u90	No, Madam President. I won't answer. I would just like the floor for a minute to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u91	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u92	Madam President, my speech will not be more than two minutes and I will not answer. The Vice President will speak. Mr. Mitsotakis, I have no idea exactly what your proposal is. That's why I'm taking the floor. I have heard you in your first speech say what your proposal is about how Greece will proceed after the Memorandum of Understanding, because that is what we are discussing today. I'm not saying now that we get the details, see our views on the production model. I'm talking about the basic framework. I heard you in your first speech saying that the exit to the markets is a minefield. I can hear you saying in your speech that you did not ask for a credit line. So what do you want? There's no other version. What? Memorandum? Extension of the memorandum? Continuing the memorial? New Memorandum? This may be a third version of the two existing alternative versions. I'm staying with this question from your position. That's why I'm taking the floor. Secondly, you referred to prices, spreads and the variation in ten-year bonds. In fact, you also made the joke in relation to the table that I tabled in the Minutes. What does it look like there? It seems the failure of the second memorandum. Because there was indeed a discrepancy during the implementation of the first, second, third and fourth evaluations of the second programme, and the notorious fifth evaluation has never been closed. And before Mr. Samaras closed, he went to the markets. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Have a seat and listen. A long time ago. Listen. That's what happened next. I'm talking about the summer of 2014. You refer to December 2014. In the summer of 2014, when the bonds had started to deviate, there was an attempt to exit the markets. And once this unsuccessful, testamental effort has been made, then you see it in the table that I've put into your mind - the vertical rise. So what I have given you and which you have commented on is the enormous failure of the second memorandum and of the then government's attempt to convince falsely that there is a success story. While we already have two successful exits on the market today, we have a substantial de-escalation of bonds, of all bonds, of ten years, of seven years and of five years. And of course you have all seen that in recent days there has been a turmoil in relation to the international markets which are largely due to the political uncertainty in Italy. However, this is not only about Greece. However, I am asking these questions: I have listened carefully to you - and I am glad you said so - that you are not asking for a credit line. Welcome. But you're not asking for a credit line. Narcotics, you say, the markets. Then what do you say? What do you suggest? All I have understood is that you are proposing that we do not move on to recruitment and, in your opinion, that surplus staff should leave, let us reduce the tax rates a little. We disagree with that view. We believe that the reduction of tax rates should come and will come from 2019 and then gradually through the budget area that is conquered by prudent political fiscal management. Finally, we welcome your position regarding the fact that you tell investors to come. I referred to a specific speech you made at an event held by the Greek Industrial Association, in which you spoke - and indeed the Vice-President referred to another debate here in Parliament - you said that they should bring their money to Greece when political stability is restored. If you have this statement today, you have the urge to put it aside as a bad event and to put it back to the need for investors to return their money to banks and to come here to continue this upward investment course that we had in 2017 and 2018 and to go and catch a new record of 2018, it is welcome to place it. One last. Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to denounce the uncircumcised attack on Mrs. Gennimatas in relation to the former republic of Central Macedonia, Mr. Psomadis. For you are right to say that he voted for the leadership elections in the Change Movement, but ten days ago he also voted in your inner-party elections in Thessaloniki. He also made statements outside the polling centre. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u93	I shall now give the floor to Mr Leventis for his denial. He'll be closed after Mr. Drasakis. Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u94	Prime Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have seen here in the Chamber that there is a battle on which the money will come back. Money isn't called to come back. When there's confidence in the economy, then, Mr. Tsipras, the money comes back. Whether Mr Mitsotakis invites them or does not invite them, he is hardly taken into consideration. Don't worry about it, Mr. Mitsotakis, in other words. Whether the money will be returned depends on the climate in the country. I would like to say a few words about the micro-enterprises. We've been wronged in this place by some people. So far no money has been lost. In Cyprus money's gone. In Greece, however, there were people who invested in Greek public bonds. Those who invested in Eurobank and Alpha did not lose their money. Those who invested in Greek public bonds, however, with a malignant decision at the time of Mr Venizelos on the PSI - which, of course, had on its good side, because it reduced the debt - the people lost their money. This is not the kind of action of the rule of law, and we have to correct it somehow. If the State does not have money immediately, we should give solutions such as a reduction in their taxation, a gradual repayment of their tax payments, some incentives and so on. However, we cannot let some people die of starvation. Of all the wings of the House, these people are abandoned. Then we're talking about a simple analogue, and I see that Mr. Tsipras left his old view of zero bonuses, and now he's trading with Mrs. Gennamas for thirty bonus seats. That's not just proportional. That's a bazaar. When we say'simply proportional', we say that the page of the self-government governments who brought us into bankruptcy, morality and economics - because there was in this place earlier than the economic situation, and the moral bankruptcy of a political system - and go to coalition governments. They may become allied governments not only between two parties, but also three and four parties, provided that the hope that someone will come out of their own power is stopped. And if I am to blame Mrs Gennamas, it is because, with the vote she gave last year, she maintains Mr Mitsotakis' hopes for prime ministership. That is indeed my fault, because it is a disaster. We would have moved on to this place to shoot a page and these elections would be worthy now. And now we are saying that the old system should be done and the aftermath should be done on the basis of the simple analogy. You have Mr. Mitsotakis to tell you that if he comes out, he'll bring back the amplified one, and that all sounds like disgrace from the world. We will once again have a bonus election, so that the parallel time comes to do without a bonus and a threatening candidate that the first bill to be brought is the enhanced one. You know that three of our MPs have left the Centroun Association. I have not yet understood the reasons that have been invoked. We will see in the vote what vote they will vote on. She's waiting for all of Greece to see this, you know. What I am saying, however, is a matter: are the parties that take MPs elected on a list doing morally? The parties that take a seat which is taken for the Union of Centres in one region and now see that seat - I know - in PASOK or see it elsewhere, do these parties morally? Do they contribute to upgrading the moral status of the political system? So whoever goes by, you put him in? Is that moral? Do you want others to do that in the future? For you, Mr Tsipras, there was Mrs Catrivanou and Mr Sakellaridis who, if they did not deliver the seat, you would have lost the declared one. So there was a sample of morals. This sample of morals is good for you. But when it's for others, don't you keep it? You promised me earlier that in the polls we would make an independent authority, not for polling to take place, but for checking the results. I have a survey here yesterday, not to say where, and only 4% of the New Democracy is different from, the other nineteen points, New Democracy from SYRIZA. We're 3.5%, 2% elsewhere, no matter where they're going, they don't. Why do you want to maintain this barbarity of polls? Anything to do, Mr. Tsipras? To become an independent authority. First the findings must be checked and immediately made public, and then neither Mitsotakis, nor I, nor you, nor anyone, can question them. You told me you'd keep this. What's stopping you? Do you want to go first and tell me "I haven't had time"? Maybe. Then the prosecutor asks for a large amount of €2 million to be charged by the Prosecutor’s Board of Appeals. There would be neither Chohatzopoulou nor Papageorgiopoulou nor would each government be anxious to refer it by the law on the liability of ministers to the next government. Why do you not want the weapons to be ordered intergrouply, to be awarded public works? Why don't you want to get in a classroom? Are you afraid of losing power? You will lose authority, but you will find peace in your sleep. I'm telling the truth. At the moment with such oppositions, which, because you refer them to them, promise to be referred back to you too, the signature of the Minister is very dangerous. He can go to a court tomorrow, while if there was a prosecutor and a intergroup committee on the award of public works and the award of supplies, the matter would be solved. Why do you do the deaf in this Chamber? Is it okay to keep this mess going and tell each other a thief? Mr Sakellariou a week ago resigned and said that he defended the world's pensions, defended the fact that many lost their income. Maybe he's right to some. In their own retrospectives, why did the judges manage to take it oakers? I mean, wait a minute. Do you hear me now? A class that made a decision for herself to take retrospectively, while not all others take it, but this class burns for the rest of the social classes. That makes me think. I would expect Mr Sakellariou - his name accidentally mentioned it - when the country has lived in the constellation of rosé and transaction, in the stealing, in the fraud, then risen up. Are you going to tell me the judge? Yes, the judge can do a lot. Even a lower judge can do much when he feels that with the credit and the selective treatment of certain classes, the country is going to go bankrupt. Once it had been heard that Professor Beys visited Andreas Papandreou and asked him: “With all these borrowers we are heading?” And he answered: “Don’t worry about it. All countries shall borrow." And this man, Andreas Papandreou, is considered as charismatic and one of the most serious politicians who passed by Greece and gave this slightest answer to Professor Bey and told it on television. I'd heard it with my ears and said, "What's going on here?" From New Syros, I'm constantly texting that while an investor there has been involved and wants to start, nothing starts. Does the government not want investment or do the investments leave to their fate? Send a minister, Prime Minister, to see what's going on there. If this potential investor is reliable, give him the job to keep the yard moving and working. If he's not reliable, find someone else. However, do not let the economic life of an entire region paralyzed. That's not a solution. It is not a solution, because, if people were to get some money from the people in debt, there are many workers who would have been the life of the island. It would be the life of the island from this thing. Why do we leave it? After "Rubic" why do you let him humiliate the government? How far will that go? They're attacking one every day. I'm not saying that Mr. Toscas is useless or that he's incapable. But I don't understand what that is. Is that an activism? Is it violence? There's some sort of philosophical talk about what it is. "Take the stone from the horns", Mr. Tsipras, before he smashed his horns into your belly. Then Mrs. Gennamas asks for an election. Is he sure he's going to get power? 'Cause so far, Mrs. Gennamas, I see all the old people, all the debris of the old PASOK. I don't see any new faces. And I see you're in love with them. And their right-wing partners, and you invite them to become your partners. In other words, the party responsible for the bankruptcy of the country is inviting you to become your partner. And that's how you lose seriousness too. New Democracy doesn't know what PASOK has done for years? A million assignments had been made. Whoever gives you a vote to make Mr. Mitsotakis Prime Minister give it all. These aren't nice things. People who have characterized them in hard words are now calling in potential your partners tomorrow. You lose moral status. They don't lose. That's what I think of the losers anyway. Because the dream of a party that has grown short of getting older in the policy of many countries that I know has not met. He hasn't met such a dream to reengage a party. I'd like to say one last thing before I leave, Mr. Tsipras. Mr Kammens opposes the name 'Macedonia'. That's what he says. You, in other words, have a vote to vote on from other parties rather than your partner? Is that something that honors you? So it can be voted so seriously with a split majority? Let me think that we should rethink this in this Chamber if we have the right to give the capital called 'Macedonia'. It is a national chapter, it is not something we can forget tomorrow. The case of Macedonia is not a simple matter. We challenge the people, when lightly called a composite name, as if we give, say, a shirt. The name 'Macedonia' is very serious. I wonder if this Chamber has felt the seriousness of giving. And I repeat - and I said it in the protology - if the Americans were to ask Erdogan - why do they move the strings, bad lies - a similar concession, do you know what a response they would receive from the Turks? So in Greece we don't have patriotism, even the one our neighbours show?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, you have said so in both the prototype and this is what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Prime Minister was missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u97	I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u98	That is the difference between the first and the second speech. That's why it's tiring for you. I'm done with nothing more. The battle here was who saved the country, the New Democracy, or SYRIZA. I'm afraid you both destroyed her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development Mr. Ioannis Drasakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u100	Today's debate took place in the context of parliamentary scrutiny in some way, on the basis of the letter from Mrs Gennamas. As a debate in the context of the government's control, I think it has had a satisfactory content. The dividing lines have been cleared, many issues have been heard, and questions have been asked. However, if we see this as a debate on the country's development future, a country that experienced a catastrophic crisis and a state bankruptcy, I think we should consider this debate simply a pre-important stage. I mean, that further discussions are needed, more substantial. It also seemed, I think, that the debate on these issues also requires another climate. Of course, there are controversies, but we also need common data, common figures, so that the controversy is on politics and not on data. I would therefore like to comment on a number of arguments which have been put forward in the last stage of the debate. The most interesting argument is what Mr Mitsotakis has said, that when an economy is in recession, the greater the recession is the steep afterward the recovery. The theory of the spring. It is indeed a well-known view expressed by economists. But we must bear in mind here that when an economy has a strong, large private debt, i.e. when the economic crisis is accompanied by a banking crisis, as happened to us, the big private debt is working as a burden on recovery. And just there have been great responsibilities that red loans have increased for several years without a system of measures and a planning for their reduction, which is happening today. So many red loans use the banking system and actually have a recovery without credit or at least had it. We are now going right through the stage that, because red loans are falling, because the recovery of the economy begins, because we are coming out of the memoranda, this can be dealt with. The second problem one needs to get, if he wants to use this spring theory, is that if the recession is so deep and protracted, a large part of the production potential comes into jeopardy. A "alpha" factory may be in place today, machinery may be there, but the technological change that has taken place does not mean that this factory today is only able to put it forward and produce products. So we are destroying and depreciating some of the production potential, so the recovery will strengthen to the extent that the investments are strengthening. And if there is something hopeful about this first year of recovery that began in 2017, I think that we have a tendency to regain investment. If anyone wants to be more enthusiastic about them, I would refer him to an article published by a Greek-speaking economist, Mr Zonzilos, at the 'Kathimerini Sunday' which invokes international studies, saying that when a country has a prolonged crisis - and we crisis was decades - and a recession plus a banking crisis plus many other things that we had, then recovery has difficulties and that is exactly what we need to take into account. Because it is easy to say the recovery to be 4% or 5%, but that remains words of air unless it is accompanied by specific policies such as those contained in the Development Strategy Plan that we have shared with you. The second thing that has been heard is a opposition, I would say, misinterpretation of well-known data, such as extended surveillance, said by Mrs Gennimatas and Mr Mitsotakis, as is the nature of supervision. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is governed by Regulation 472, which has existed since 2013 and says what happens in a country when it gets into a programme and what happens after it comes out of the programme. So what happened in Portugal is done to us. Of course, Portugal did not ask for a restructuring of its debt. We are calling for restructuring of the debt. In any case, there will be a difference, but not a qualitative one. Instead of two reports being made for the country every year, there may be three. But the pressure mechanism, which has often worked as an extortion mechanism, is out of the way. So far you have been told: 'Do this, otherwise it has no dose'. From now on you will be told: 'We think you should do this'. And we, like other governments, will have the opportunity to say: 'Good, we have heard your proposal, but we, for these reasons and for these reasons, are pursuing this policy which we consider to be right for our country'. So this is where we need a consultation from those who want to reach agreement. Those who want to oppose this territory will not be persuasive, because the reality is what we are describing. The third question is why we have a higher interest rate than Portugal. But is that a serious question for us to put it? We have 178% debt, unsustainable, Portugal has a lower debt, it is out of memory, and therefore it has a lower country risk. From there on, the differences exist not only between Portugal and Greece. If you see interest rates in Italy today are higher than interest rates in both Portugal and Spain. Why? Because Italy also has a high debt with regard to the other countries and because it currently has a political uncertainty about its future. So we - still in the memoirs - coming out of the memos, - if anyone wants to study it - are better placed than other countries when they came out of the memos. From there, of course, there is the issue of international turbulence and the possibility of new crises, which we cannot rule out. There are, therefore, the risks that exist every time a country, after a long blockade from the markets, for the first time attempts to come out of the market. These risks have been discussed by the government for a year and between us and the European institutions. Solutions are specific, as the Prime Minister said before. That is, either you ask for a new memorandum or you ask for a preventive line or you make your own national fund as a last resort loan solution and if you can't borrow from the markets, have your own fund. Three are the possibilities. It is also good for the New Democracy, but also for the other political forces to clarify their position. We say that the best defense against these possible risks is: Firstly, we have our own fund, as strong as possible. Secondly, to ensure a reduction in debt, a debt facility, so that the debt becomes sustainable and, if possible, also has this mechanism that is being discussed, so that even in future we have a downturn or a short-lived breakdown, we can reduce the instalments and whether we are normally serving the debt. And the third and most powerful defence mechanism is to have a strong fiscal position as a country and a new model of development, which will now be resilient to crisis. And that's exactly what we're trying to do. I therefore think that the arguments of the Opposition - at least that - are weak. I think that they are still reflecting on the non-serious treatment of the text which, in fact, you have taken in your hands. I hope that, at a later stage, controversy may not be reduced - we may also increase the controversy - but at least they will have left the middle of what, in my view, is a fact of a debate rather than a debate itself. Finally, this plan also has an implementation mechanism, which I would like to take into account. It will not, that is, a text to enter the drawer. First - first, if you see it, of course it has general objectives, they require specialization. For example, if we want to get industrial production to 12% immediately and then to 15% and 20%, that would require a special plan. That's not how it's gonna happen. The project itself, however, is accompanied by a very large number of concrete projects and actions. Secondly, there will be a structure under the Prime Minister with the political responsibility for the implementation of the project. Thirdly, there will be a structure in the Ministry of Development with a scientific board and a permanent dialogue forum with social actors and banks. We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss, evaluate and deal with any issues. Until this is done, however, the Ministry of Economy and Development - and all the ministries, of course - are open. It is with great pleasure that I and the other ministers will be able to inform you of what has happened, but also of what we are planning to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. Ladies and gentlemen, the pre-dated agenda has been completed, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, at the initiative of the President of the Group of the Democratic Alliance of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotinis (Fhost) Gennamata, at the level of party leaders, on the information of the national delegation and through it and the Greek people, on the content of the critical discussions that the government has been taking place with partners and lenders. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-23-S1-commons.u102	With the consent of this House at 17.05 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 24 May 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
