ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 30-8-2018, the minutes of its 1st session of Thursday, 30 August 2018, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: a. ‘Preparation of amendments to the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Effects in a cross-border context signed in Espoo in Finland in 1991 and ratified by Law 2540/1997 (A' 249)’; ‘Principle of the amendment made in Kigali (Rounda) on 10-15 October 2016 of the Montreal Protocol of 1987, ratified by Law 1818/1988 (FO 253 A) on substances that deplete the ozone layer’.]] Please tell the Secretary-General to announce the reports to the Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the Department that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs entitled: "Constitution of the Convention between the Federal Ministry of Family, Third Age, Women and Youth of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of the Hellenic Republic on cooperation in the field of youth and preparation for the establishment of a Greek-German Youth Foundation". Also, the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, as well as the Minister of Home Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction and Civil Protection submitted on 3-9-2018 a draft law entitled “Access to permanent residents of areas outside television coverage to Greek free-range television stations”. It was referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. Furthermore, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister of Interior, National Defence, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Energy, Maritime and Civil Protection, as well as the Deputy Minister of Environment and Energy submitted a draft law on 5-9-2018 entitled "Waterways, Urban Transport and Other Provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Finally, the Standing Committees of Public Administration, Public Orders and Justice and Trade submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information entitled "Access to permanent residents of areas outside television coverage in Greek free-range television stations". In addition, for there to be in the Minutes, the House approves the permission of the Member, Mr Kegeroglu, who has expired - we had no further sitting - for his absence abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Definition of the Convention between the Federal Ministry of Family, Third Age, Women and Youth of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of the Hellenic Republic on cooperation in the field of youth and preparation for the establishment of a Greek-German Youth Foundation". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to be discussed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this convention. From what I saw from the Minutes, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece objected. "According to the Golden Dawn and "present" the JRC was voted. So for five minutes who would like to take the floor from Golden Dawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I am sorry, but could we have the rapporteurs for two minutes the reason for some of the points made in the committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u4	They will speak as they should, according to the Rules of Procedure. You have no right under the Rules of Procedure. We'll see, anyway. Okay, for three minutes, we'll make a derogation. We don't have anything else. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Another meaningless ratification of a contract between Greece and Germany, which concerns the establishment of the Hellenic German Youth Foundation, as mentioned. The aim of this Foundation is to deepen the relationship between young people and those responsible for youth issues, as well as to combat the various stereotypes. We ask: Who are these stereotypes? Could you be more specific? Are these the stereotypes you referred to by 2015 for Germany with the worst words or for those here who supported Mrs Merkel's ethnic policies, which you described as germans? Was it you and you are the ones who perpetuate these stereotypes of germans, the conquesters or anything else? Really, with your practices from 2015 until now, do you disguise yourself? Are you the ones you described by 2015? Add this: To what youth are you referring to? Do you, especially in the part of Greek youth, bear in mind those who, by hundreds of thousands, emigrate, leave home, not willingly, because of these anti-national policies that have been imposed on us by Mrs Merkel, Germany, by Mr. Shoeble? Let us not remind you of the designations you have given to these German politicians. And you say about this Foundation that we need to help to help from now on, from its foundation, to have a grievance, to forget the mistakes of the past. In errors, omissions, in everything that created problems between Greece and Germany is the mortgage loan, for which you were once in the bars, but four years in the government have you done nothing at all, but only visits by your officials were made to the martyrial areas in Chortiatis, Candanos, Distomos, where you go and tell them that nothing has been lost and that we always have the right to claim German compensation, the German corrections for what happened or the mortgage loan? But, in practice, you have done nothing at all, unlike the bad guys, the fascists, as you say, the Germans - or anything else - who are demanding that the German loan be immediately claimed, and along with this, the demand for German allowances, as has all the states of Europe, except Greece. Is that what you're talking about? We think it is a meaningless one - I repeat and I close with it - ratification of a contract. This is an institution that will impose on us what one side wants, as has happened for many years now, unfortunately, with various agreements and sanctions between the countries of the Balkans, the neighbouring states of Greece. We are talking in our books about what was good for the Turks, the Bulgarians, the Skopje, the Albanians and all those who have fought for hundreds of years, while they continue in their school books or elsewhere to say what they have been saying for hundreds of years. Clearly and we are referred to as 'against'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u6	On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Despite our reservations about the contract in question, we choose to place ourselves with'residences' on the basis of our party's approach to friendship and cooperation between peoples and young peoples, but also by making the following position. The JRC wants to warn that it will strongly condemn and fight any attempt to exploit the "Greek German Youth Foundation" for other purposes and, in particular, for the counterfeiting of the historical truth and the undermining of our people's request for military compensation, for Nazi atrocities, appalling disasters and looting in the years of the Occupation. We have said on several occasions that with a number of ten student scholarships and other moves the government - and every government - cannot get through from Germany's war payments to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, I would ask the Minister to speak last. Because this week there was only today's meeting, I will ask each party in turn or the rapporteur or Parliamentary representative, if he wishes, to take the floor for three minutes, the Minister will listen to everyone and he will close the meeting. Minister, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u9	Can I disagree, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u10	No, I'm saying it because you had to talk now. But I think we should get it a little more organized. So from SYRIZA, Mr. Rizulis has the floor. Here, Mr. Rizzouli, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to two, three issues which have been put forward by me in committee, but also by other majority colleagues. First of all, because we are talking about an institution that wants to regulate and see the future on a proper basis, two young people, Greece and Germany, that relations between states are generally differentiated according to the historical and political context, and if they are to be delineated from the principle of reciprocity, in order to build a solid future of cooperation and friendship, particularly among young people, this requires knowledge of historical truth. In the case of the two peoples, therefore, it is necessary to know from the young people and young people of the two countries, Greece and Germany the crimes of the Nazi troops in Greece between 1941 and 1945. To protect democracy in Europe by mutual respect among peoples, knowledge of the past is essential to prevent the revival of any European country of hatred ideas. It is necessary for this to be the knowledge of historical truth, as I have said before. In this context, changes were called for at the committee meeting, as I said at the outset, which obviously existed in the mind of the legislator, but I believe that the clarification and addition of these or the removal of certain words, as has been said by other speakers at the committee meeting, contributes to the solid future of friendship and cooperation. It was therefore requested to remove the term'stereotypes' from the explanatory statement, which raises questions and suspicions, as expressed in both the committee and the departments' organizations during the German occupation and representatives of the martyrial towns, and to add that the visits of the two young people - Germans and Greeks and especially German youths - will be included - and this will be written in the actions - martyr cities and villages of the period 1941-1945. The question of a youth institution as it has been brought in by some speakers - both in Greece and in Greece - must also be resolved, because on the other hand it is institutionalised. I would also like to stress once again that the establishment of the institution has nothing to do with the claim by our country of German allowances, which are legally and judicially sought. I would remind you of the recent statements by the President of the Republic to Hortiatis, the Prime Minister for a historic debt in claiming compensation from Candan, Crete, and the President of Parliament. The outcome of the committee's claim for German allowances is there and we expect it to be deposited in the House of Parliament for its ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. Mr Koukodemos has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, we have nothing to add. We told the committee that we agreed. I do not doubt, of course, with his colleague, SYRIZA, who has overruled this matter again. We have no objections. We agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Democratic Association has the floor for three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Today, Parliament debated the bill on ratification of the Convention between Greece and Germany on cooperation in the youth field, on preparation for the establishment of the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Convention describes in detail the framework for cooperation between the two countries in the field of youth. It is worth noting that the Contracting Parties will set up a Committee of Experts with representatives of both countries. This Committee will meet at least twice a year, in turn in the two countries and its objective is to prepare for the establishment and functioning of the institution in 2019. Now to the question, as we said in committee, if it is necessary to set up a Greek-German Youth Foundation, the Democratic Reconciliation has answered for a long time and is absolutely necessary for the following reasons. Firstly, because Greek-German relations have a long history, a story that was based not only on political and economic facts, but mainly on the interaction of the two cultures. That is why a special bond was created between the two peoples. Secondly, following the German invasion of Greece in 1941, wounds were opened that we must close and prevention and stereotypes were created that we must overturn. That is why we consider it important to organise seminars with teachers participating in exchange programmes on the events of the period 1941-1944. Also, because the Greek society in Germany is developed, the Greek element I would say is very great. Finally, because, with the outbreak of the crisis, our relations with Germany have again begun to be tested under intense controversy, with regard to the fiscal adjustment of our country, which have rekindled stereotypes, which I must say - to be regarded as outdated on both sides. We therefore hope and expect that the establishment of the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation will promote Greek-German relations and cooperate between the two peoples and the countries. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to improving bilateral relations, we hope that the Greek-German Youth Foundation will help to stimulate the European ideal, eliminate stereotypes that have been created in collective consciousness in recent years for the European structure and will lead to an understanding of the current need for further convergence. After all, let us not forget that President Juncker said in his speech on the White Paper: 'We will not be judged on what we have received, but on what we will deliver to the next generations'. In conclusion, I should like to say that today, four hundred and fifty thousand young people left the country because of the crisis and we have an obligation on these people to bring them back. Do not forget that these people with degrees, postgraduate, doctorate are the bright minds that our country needs. Debt and bet all of us to turn the new generation back. The Democratic Partnership contributes in every way to ensure that the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation fulfils its norms and act constructively for the new generation of the two countries. That is why, as we mentioned in the committee, we are voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Mr. Panagiotaros has been placed. Mr. Tassos has been placed. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I want to believe that this is a step in the political unification of the countries of the European Union. That's my assessment and feeling. It is a positive step, but very short and very delayed, because those who really believe in political unification, which has not been taking place for decades, see that some countries are paving their own way. One of these is West Germany, which is taking advantage of crises in other small countries, and it itself has enriched itself. A second point: first of all, to avoid misunderstanding, I would say that we are positive about this delayed and small, very small step, because in the priorities hierarchy there should have been many other steps ahead of the real political unification of Europe, which has not taken place. We see, then, daily in this country as well as in other countries, with attitudes - please forgive me - the expression - of 'battered' countries growing like mushrooms the right-wing movements. In Germany itself at the moment, Mr President, Minister, I am sorry to say that, but the AfD is taking the head, and the Christian communists are taking the head in adjacent countries. We all know that, I'm not going to analyse it. Generally speaking, we see that in the priorities hierarchy the Heads of State of the European Union should have prevented this development, which is incredible. A decisive factor, which our country pays very expensive, is migration. Whatever you say to me, I do not believe that ten, fifteen, twenty-eight eight leaders in the European Union can do nothing. They should give their whole soul, all their potential to stop the war in Syria, which raises these extreme right-wing, new structures, whether called Salvini, or Viders, etc. In short, in order not to delay, Mr President - because that is not our issue - it is a good thing to set up this Greek-German Youth Foundation, but it is a small step, it is a very small step in the integration policy of the countries of Europe. I disagree here with the JRC, which I respect, because I believe in the unification of Europe, in political unification, and we must work hard in this direction as far as possible, as it takes us from there. We don't have a choice. I don't want to say any more. Of course we are positive in the vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I will not speak much. We were also positive in the committee for the establishment of the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation. We are in favour of extroverting, in favour of solidarity and the tightening of relations between the European peoples, and it would be good if these steps were to be taken and started by the next generations, not by forgetting the past, but by looking at the future with an optimism and common vision. We are positive about ratifying this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Black. Mr. Focas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. We are in favour of signing the contract between the relevant German and Greek ministries for the establishment of the Youth Foundation. We would like the young people involved in this foundation to start from a zero base, to start from kindergarten and not from high school. When we say 'cooperation between two countries', we mean solidarity, which is missing all these years, but also confidence among the peoples. To be clearer, Greece has made a debt that was private. He saved the European banks and instead the Greek people kneeled before the lenders. The young people who will be involved in this institution must begin with solidarity and cooperation between countries. We are positive and vote 'in favour'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Fokas. The Minister now has the floor for five minutes and because he will answer everyone, although almost everyone was 'in favour', he will have a small tolerance if necessary. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to focus on the fact that there is a very wide agreement, consensus, around this text. This is a very positive step. Let us now see how many colleagues have asked questions, not all of them. Admittedly, our country - and fortunately - has developed very close ties with the scientific community in Germany immediately after World War II. This is very important. So scientists and young people are always two pillars, two social accusations that essentially strengthen transnational relations. We know this because the values of youth and scientific values and cooperation always remain outside any political conflicts. We identify the issue surrounding the word'street', the issue of inclusion, so that visits also include witnessing places and, of course, the extremely important issue of compensation - for which you are aware of the initiatives we have taken and, as Mr Rizzoulis said, will also come to Parliament - so that these will be part of the final agreement when this institution is established. Since, however, there are various parliamentary and technical restrictions to change the explanatory statement, etc., I would like to commit myself - obviously as Minister of Education - to send a letter to the respective Minister of Germany to codify these questions raised during the debate in this House. So we will have that text. As you know, due to regulations, the report cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u24	On account of Article 108, ratification shall be adopted at the earliest opportunity. No change is allowed. So we only go to what you say, what can be agreed during the operation of the Youth Foundation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u25	What the President has just said will take into account during the establishment of the institution, but within the texts there will also be a letter of mine to the German Minister who clearly identifies what has been expressed in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of the Hellenic Republic is hereby concluded: "Constitution of the Convention between the Federal Ministry of Family, Third Age, Women and Youth of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of the Hellenic Republic on cooperation in the field of youth and preparation for the establishment of a Greek-German Youth Foundation". Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u27	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u29	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u30	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u31	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u33	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u35	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘Definition of the Convention between the Federal Ministry of Family, Third Age, Women and Youth of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs of the Hellenic Republic on cooperation in the field of youth and preparation for the establishment of a Greek-German Youth Foundation’ was accepted by a majority, in a single discussion, on the principle, articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u36	I would ask the Bureau to authorize the Bureau to be responsible for the ratification of the minutes on the whole of this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u37	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-06-S1-commons.u38	With the consent of the Department and 10.45 minutes of the meeting, the meeting shall be closed.
