ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Happy birthday to Dimitris and Dimitrioules, colleagues, workers, policemen, journalists and many years for our national anniversary on Sunday. I would like to inform the House that the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, submitted on 25-10-2018 a draft law: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum conditions for the promotion of the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights (L128/1 of 30-04 2014)’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin, I will announce the questions that, due to various obstacles, will not be discussed. The fourth, with number 74/16-10-2018, top-stage question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The planning for maritime education" will not be discussed. The fifth question, under number 53/11-10-2018, is a second question for the Member of Parliament I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Aid to the Port House in view of the establishment of EEZ and the extraction of hydrocarbons and natural gas”, will not be discussed. The seventh question, number 20/3-10-2018, on the second question of the President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish Challenge continues in the Aegean", will not be discussed. The first, with number 90/23-10-2018, top-stage question of the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Difficulties in teaching staff in secondary education in the Halkidiki Prefecture", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause it's the workload. The first question under number 1048/30-8-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To resolve the problem that has arisen for students of the Department of Political Structural Works of the University of Crete", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause it's the workload. The third, with number 76/17-10-2018, a top-stage question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Migration Policy, on “Golden keys” and direct assignments for refugees”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Vitsa. Because it's a trip to Istanbul. The second question under number 115/18-7-2018 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP I Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelles, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Serious problems cause the residents of Saints Theodores of the Municipality of Andradis - Cyclones the operation of a processing unit by meat products", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr Famelou. The reason is to participate in a government mission internally. The third question with number 1326/6-9-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incredible analgesia of PPC against its consumers, accompanied by the unbelievable suffering of PPC's shops", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Georgios Stathakis. The reason is to participate in a government mission abroad. The second question, under number 81/22-10-2018, on the second question by the Member of Parliament, of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The situation of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ) will not be discussed due to the illness of the Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Stergiou Pitsirla. We wish for it. The third, with number 9223-10-2018, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Governmental misinformation, that the guarantors of the highly indebted households are protected", will not be discussed due to an illness of the Deputy Minister of Economy Mr. Stergiou Pitsirla. There is also the letter from the Secretary of the Government on the reasons you have heard. We are launching the debate with the fifth under number 94/23-10-2018, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For the disasters of the cyclone "Zorba" caused in the Peloponnese". The question will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alexis Haritsis. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, a month has passed since the event of the cyclone "Zorba", as it was called, which caused a number of significant damages in the areas of the Peloponnese, in Laconia, Messinia, but the passage of "Zorba" to Corinth and Argolida was particularly noticeable. These are areas which are not the first time in confrontation with problems. In particular, Argolida and Corinthia, but also Messinthia in the past, have often witnessed heavy flooding phenomena with enormous damage both in houses, in shops, in cars, in infrastructure networks such as sewerage, water and in provincial roads. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that it is not due to an extreme weather phenomenon or to an accidental event, the flooding phenomena which have been dealt with, but literally to a timeless lack of natural phenomena, antifungal protection in this particular case, or other cases of anti-nuclear or anti-Semitism protection. And it is not just a technocratic problem, but - we are saying it clearly - it is a question of choices made by governments, and by previous and current governments, creating these infrastructures which serve capitalist development, support and profitability of capital and not such infrastructures that protect human life, above all, the properties, but also a lot that responds to the needs of the people's strata. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are no such priorities and, in addition to the absence of these infrastructures, there are also the major infrastructure projects that have been carried out, the road transport projects in particular of the Olympic Road, as well as the suburban and new Athens-Patras railway network in PATHE, where the necessary projects have not been to protect against such phenomena. They closed torrents, changed streams of torrents and the Olympian road as well as the suburban to become a factor of burden and manifestation of ever more intense flooding phenomena. In fact, it is a recent speech made by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Dedes, in the Netherlands, where he quite clearly said this, that we will give a substantial sum of money from European programmes for flood protection projects on the roads. Road networks were made to reduce costs, i.e. they did not receive the necessary infrastructure, and now the people will be called upon to pay for additional infrastructure to protect road networks and not to have an integrated plan for counter-flooding areas, housing, agricultural production and a number of other productive activities. This is, we would say, the confirmation of what projects are prioritised, the projects that need capital and infrastructure and not the projects that the people need. It is also a challenge for a number of other cases - and I conclude, Mr President, with this - that two days after the floods, a very large sum of EUR 1.5 million was allocated from the Region of Western Greece to make these mountainous roads. So it is an issue and so far there have been serious delays and nothing has been done as compensation, yet they are still recording the damages. Nothing's happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u3	Dear Nikola, we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u4	... 100% of the compensation and the specific measures for the flood protection have not been granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start by saying that obviously on the issues of natural disasters, the Member of Parliament is right in this respect, they cannot be treated fragmentally, and especially at a time when we have come in which these phenomena are growing because of also climate change. It needs a comprehensive approach at both infrastructure level, but also at the level of the state mechanism's immediate response at all levels when these phenomena, which we see are becoming more and more frequent, occur. I shall confine myself to my reply to the questions of competence of the Ministry of the Interior and to say on this occasion - and let me say this - that in the case of the 'Zorba' circular, the disaster which it has caused - I recall - the regions of the Peloponnese, in particular the areas of Corinth and Argoli in this case on 29 and 30 September, were on the part of our Ministry and on a service and at political level, a very immediate response. I say this by substantiating it and the evidence we have from the competent authorities. I would remind you that the phenomenon occurred at its full intensity on 29 and 30 September. On 2 October, only two days later, they were adopted by decisions of the Ministry of the Interior and were attributed to the Municipality of Sykionionion with an amount of EUR 300,000 and to the Municipality of Velos - Bochas of EUR 400,000 for the restoration - I repeat - of the affected infrastructure of the municipalities for their immediate needs. Also, on 5 October, 400,000 euros were attributed to the Municipality of Xylokastro - Eurostin, in the Municipality of Northern Kynouria of 350,000 euros and in the Municipality of Argos - Mycenas of 600,000 euros, on 10 October in the Municipality of Ermionida of 250.00 euros, in the Municipality of Epidaurus of Epidaurus of 300,000 euros and in the Municipality of Sparta of Sparta 200,000 euros. Finally, on October 12th, the Municipality of Eurota was assigned an amount of EUR 200.00. In total, therefore, the amount allocated for the restoration of infrastructure from this disaster, as well as for all the other relevant measures that have taken place in 2018 for the municipalities of the Peloponnese Region, amounts to EUR 5,190,000. I am presenting in the Minutes the relevant table of detailed funding approved by the Ministry of the Interior. [[At this point, the Minister, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above table, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of course, these issues, as has been said quite rightly, are not only dealt with at the level of immediate restoration of the damage caused by the disasters. There are other issues that are caused by these disasters, such as water shortages. There was a direct response from the relevant departments of the Ministry of Interior. On October 2nd, compensation was granted to the Municipality of Velos - Bohas and the Municipality of Sikyonia, and on October 5, allowances were paid to the Municipality of Xylokastros and to the Municipality of Argos - Mycenas, a total of EUR 1100,000 - I repeat - to deal with water shortages caused or pre-existing and aggravated by the disaster. I submit to the Minutes and this relevant table. [[At this point, the Minister, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above table, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of course, as has been said quite rightly before, these infrastructure issues cannot be dealt with only during the disaster, but we must prevent them. As you know very well, a very ambitious programme has been launched by the Ministry of Interior in recent months, the 'Philodimos' programme, for which I am pleased, because the response of local authorities is very positive, precisely for strengthening such infrastructure to the extent possible with the financial possibilities available to us, for water infrastructures, for sewerage infrastructures and for rural road infrastructures. These programmes have been submitted by the municipalities of the area, by the municipalities of Monemvasia, Xylokastro and Sparta for water supply and by Monemvasia for sewerage. These projects will be included in the "Philodime" programmes by the end of this month in October. So, there too, we will have some infrastructure projects that are very important to these regions. As for the allowances to which Mr Karathanasopoulos refers in his question, I should like to say that we are in constant contact with the relevant municipalities which have the responsibility of listing the beneficiaries of these allowances. I would remind you that there are two main categories of benefits. They are the allowances of immediate living needs, amounting to EUR 586 per beneficiary, and the allowances for the treatment of simple repair work and the replacement of building up to EUR 5,869. In both cases, according to Article 271 of Law 4555 which we have voted very recently in this year, these financial aid is inappropriate. We therefore expect the relevant requests for allowances to be made very quickly in the next few days by the municipalities. Finally, I would remind you, because this is also mentioned in the honourable Member's question that a few weeks ago, under Rule 20 of Law 4566/2018, we provided for the discharge of those who are resident in areas which have been declared competent in an emergency because of natural disasters. There are areas from the particular disaster that have quickly been declared in an emergency, so that they can join this regime. Therefore, it is exempted from the obligation to pay the single fee for cleaning and lighting the real estate fee and the electricity supply tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u7	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u8	We also have the detailed situation of the regions in the peripheral sections that have joined the emergency regime. Overall, there is a great deal of effort and what I have to say, by closing, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u9	Yeah, but you have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u10	What I have to say is that these phenomena really cannot be treated fragmentally. I am, however, pleased to see that the authorities of self-government recognize the effort made by the Ministry of Interior in the case of this last natural disaster, the 'ZORMPA' cyclone and our immediate response, and I think that this should continue in the next period, in cooperation with the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u11	Both now, and Mr. Karathanasopoulos and the Minister, will be within their time. You've taken twice as much time in protology. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'll make sure I keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u13	We have to, because we have the Hall for the event, otherwise, it would be okay, the world didn't mess.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u14	Yes, Mr. President. Minister, in your reply, I certainly do not question the information you have given, but it was the easy ones, you have responded to the 'easy', i.e. measures to restore damage to the infrastructure, the funding you have made to the municipalities, but in the essence of the problems, Minister, you have not taken a position, you have not been placed. We say that why? For, of course, this exceptional funding has been provided to restore damage to infrastructure networks, water, sewerage, the municipalities, but it is a question of how far these projects are going. Of course, you are not directly responsible, but more so how quickly the municipalities have recorded the damages suffered by the people in their homes, in shops, in their crops, and how quickly the issue of compensation and claims is going. And these allowances, of course, which you mentioned are not enough, do not cover in many cases all the damages they have suffered. We are asking for 100% of the damages and damages that exist. Also, the "Philodimos" programme, which you are walking everywhere, Mr Minister, not only you, but the previous ones, has a specific amount and directions to specific projects, water, sewerage and provincial road projects. The anti-military protection projects, however, which, of course, are not a matter for them to be made afterward, but before, they want a specific design, nor can they become a fragmentation. Not every municipality, that is to say, seeing its own anti-military works, which may in their construction have an impact on something else, on the next municipality or on the next settlement, if any. We have talked about an integrated plan and you, as the Ministry of the Interior, have the direct responsibility to proceed with such a process of comprehensive anti-military protection planning, particularly in areas which are very often affected by such phenomena. The start must be made from these regions, and the regions in our country, as in the Peloponnese, are specific. It is Corinthia in its northern part, Argolida in New Kio, which often shows such flooding phenomena every one or two years. There has been no progress at all in the preparation of a comprehensive anti-military protection plan. In the question we say that it is a challenge for Argos, which has such issues, to give a series of millions to regenerate the square. How many times has the Argos Square been rejuvenated? How many times have the square tiles changed? Corinth, too. Refreshing, he says, in the Perimeters. Dozens of times have been made such urban replications, why exactly are there other kinds of interests, a planning of tourist development, but the issues that are of immediate priority? Because remorses, Minister, do not protect human life. Anti-military protection works protect her. And here you have not said a word on this matter, that there is an initiative by the government to launch such a project. I told you about the placement of the Secretary-General of Infrastructure, which is another thing, because it is actually moving into the logic of the European Union, the logic of the cost of the infrastructure, business and the world, if it wants to be protected, let it go to private insurance and secure its property in the sense of cost-benefit, in this provocative directive. The Ministry of Infrastructure is announcing a programme of counter-flood protection for major road infrastructure projects, and they should do so themselves, and compensation should also be demanded by the companies providing these projects which did not proceed to such counter-flood protection projects and their own infrastructure, as well as in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u16	From this point of view, we would like you to stand more carefully, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u17	The parties ask questions if they develop so many issues, not a timely question. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I will be very brief. You'll see this time I won't get over time. I promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u19	Be short because of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I am bypassing the reproach for my special homeland. I'm coming to the object. Mr. Karathanasopou, you said I was confined easily. Let me tell you, with the experience I have gained in the Ministry of the Interior and the former Ministry of Economy and Development, that it is not easy to activate the state mechanism and within two days there will be approvals of compensation for natural disasters such as those which occurred on 29 September and 30 September by the cyclone ZORMPA. Believe me, there has been a very serious effort from the services, the employees of our Ministry and from the political leadership to achieve this quick result, which was also recognised by self-government. Secondly and even more importantly, in my opinion, you raise an issue which is really crucial: what are we doing about infrastructure projects? Because you said that we are looking around "PHILDIMO" right and left, let me tell you that the great success of the "PHILDIMOS" programme is precisely, not that it gives funding to the right and left to the institutions, but that it comes to satisfy requests and needs of the institutions themselves. I should like to give you a very specific example of what you said: we have asked the authorities to tell us what needs are for infrastructure projects. As you have rightly said, the issue of flooding has been raised. That is why the next EUR 200,000, 000, EUR 200,000, which we are calling in the next few days in October, is precisely for flood protection in order to meet these needs - I repeat - by the self-government bodies themselves. The central state cannot and must not, in my opinion, come and impose - if you like - on self-government, on the local communities, what the projects need to be carried out. The bodies themselves have a responsibility to draw up their technical plan and we must respond to it. We are doing this through the "PHILOS" programmes. The next call concerns precisely this burning issue of anti-military protection with a brave funding. Let me say that those which, in difficult budgetary times, are trying to make out of the specific programmes by implementing infrastructure projects for water supply, irrigation, for rural roads, now for flood protection, are projects that should have been done for decades. These projects should have taken place at the time the country had these possibilities. Now, we are doing so through these very important programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u21	The fourth question with number 95/23-10-2018 will then be discussed in the context of a topical and urgent debate on the second question of the National Communist Party of Greece, Diamantos Manolakos, on the subject: "For the catastrophic floods caused in north-central Evia". Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we knew Zorba and we danced him. The Cyclone Zorbas, however, danced whole regions. One of them was north-central Evia with two dead and very large disasters. In Mandudi - they also showed them on the channels - the Kreas River was flooded and the road with Procopi was cut. Of course, it would have been less impact if the road had been maintained. And that is not just your responsibility, it is also your responsibility for previous governments. The river maintained it by dipping and folding and cleaning. The results? In homes, shops, schools, stables, gym floods and disasters. However, there was nothing left on the crops, even a swollen production, such as cotton. Of course, too, dozens of small sellers lost their status in a bazaar that existed. He took all the river. There are still today, Minister, villages, one month later, which have no water. We're not talking about the houses where the yards got stuck. People cleaned it up. But the rural roads are not accessible yet. There are problems with producers, but also with resin collectors. The same is happening in the Evia Lake, which is also the impact of the major fire in 2016. Any flooding work proved to be completely inadequate. Of course, we have a great deal of damage both in the forests and in the rural roads. And in the Municipality of Istia - Eidipsos with the river Xeria became the same, and it flooded and destroyed everything up to the pumping station. And in Basilics they flooded underground professionals, destroying their supplies. They're completely outdated. Why is there fear and concern now? For landslides, as winter enters, especially in Derveny, especially on the Lake - Lutre - Edipsos street. Of course, political responsibilities exist both in the current government and in the previous ones, and in the road and in the road and in the deepening of the rivers and in the road. Therefore, extreme weather conditions may exist, but if infrastructure existed, disasters would be much less. What are we asking you for? To be granted a direct, rapid exceptional allowance, even aid to these affected farmers, who have not only lost a number of animals, but have lost the supplies for feedingstuffs they had for the winter - they have no stocks - as well as a bottled water supply, where necessary. The damage records, from what we learn, these days are over. However, the compensation must be 100% of the disasters without conditions and conditions, especially those which must be compensated by the ELGA, but also by small businesses. Also, there should be a "freezing" of debts and should stop any seizure procedures, as well as an exemption from municipal fees, HICPIA, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u23	You said without preconditions. Don't analyze them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u25	Finish, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u26	The infrastructure, the road network and water and water supply need to be restored and under water quality control. Of course, anti-corrosion and anti-corrosion works are also needed, because winter creates fears for even more problems. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u27	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief not to repeat things which have been said in my previous reply. I should like to say that, in fact, Mrs Manolaku is right that the Evia region, particularly Northern Evia, has been greatly affected by this disaster. We have tried to help self-government from the first moment. Here, however, may I make a comment. Here Members could also help us. It is also a question of triggering the institutions themselves. In cases where there is readiness on their part and the availability for cooperation, I think the results are important. In other cases, which are an inertia, you certainly understand that our work is becoming more difficult, too. In particular, however, for the Evia region, I would like to say that again, on 29 and 30 September, successive decisions by the Ministry of Interior were attributed to the Municipality of Istia - Ethiopia on 4 October of an amount of EUR 400,000. I repeat that in just four days after the occurrence of the phenomenon, the municipality had received this EUR 400,000 aid for its immediate needs. I would remind you that in the past such exceptional allowances were given to the municipalities after one and two years. Now that's what happened within four days. I think it is very important progress, very important development, which I would like to point out: on 4 October in the Municipality of Istia - Ethiopia, on 5 October in the Municipality of Mandudi of EUR 650 000, on 10 October in the Municipality of Dirfyon - Messapion of EUR 250 000. I present in the minutes the relevant table with all the compensation for this disaster, but also for all the corresponding years 2017 and 2018. [[At this point, the Minister, Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above table, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Similarly to address the water shortage problems in the Municipality of Mandudi, where the biggest problem was observed, on 5 October a total amount of EUR 200 000 was allocated to the municipalities of the Evia Regional Unit. In the last year, between 2017 and 2018, funding for water shortages amounts to 940 thousand euros. I present the relevant table of financing by municipality. [[At this point, the Minister, Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above table, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So there is a systematic effort there too. I would also ask, however, that, from the Stepping-up of the House, those who so far had not responded to this effort, help us with the registration of the beneficiaries so that we can, in addition to the municipalities, give to the people affected the allowances themselves - which I mentioned before - the living needs of EUR 586 and the treatment of simple repair work to replace a building of EUR 5,896. So we expect the municipalities to do this and we will soon be able to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u29	Mrs Manolakou has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u30	Minister, to accept that you have given the municipalities aid within four days. Let's recognize it. But if you see the disaster and what's reached the wounded, you'll find that nothing has arrived. Well, by luck, we don't have any more dead people. I don't know if you went to see how big the disaster is. These people neither have savings to directly replace the buildings destroyed and they need nor can be moved, to go to another home. They cleaned their homes, try to stand on their feet, all these years they paid for many taxes, but elementary things are not done. The allowance is very small, but they need it. He should've arrived a month later. They're not big areas. There are ways. You're exemplary to the NRP and the various funds. So you could have solved that. Let us not only the NSRF for entrepreneurs, let them take the money to the needs of people. It also appeared that the infrastructures are poor. It is, of course, the previous governments. But now they're becoming patches. I'm telling you this because in the first heavy rain, fear is that the road will be cut again. Shit's on it. Nothing else. The committee of the perpetrators has been asking for a visit for weeks. You weren't answering. They wanted to tell you in detail the needs they had. Yesterday they got the first answer. Three villages right now that we're talking about have no water: Kalyvia, Metohi, Spathari. There are other problems that I am referring specifically to: the ESA and the firefighting industry have been flooded. The Mandudi PSA have no computers. The water - and the fire extinguisher - got mixed up with the fuel oil. Maybe the water's gone, but there's fumes. He needs a special cleaning staff. Farmers, literally, are in despair. There are ball and mud fields. The catastrophe is totalitarian. There must also be concrete answers and commitments here. How these people will live. I have heard you say here that they will not pay certain fees in the municipality. But here the farmers to get the compensation from the ELGA, they're asking them to pay the last insurance contribution and they don't have any money. So they want to get rid of it and more. We also want you to commit yourself to a specific timetable for the first needs, for the anti-military and for the roads, but also for the but also for the demands they have and we have referred to them in the question, because we have not actually received a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u32	I would like to say very briefly, Mr President, some things. First of all, I would like to say that the dates I gave previously and have also been tabled in the Minutes of the House with the relevant return tables to the municipalities for emergency allowances, concern disbursements on the part of our Ministry. From there on it is the task of the local authorities themselves, the municipalities, to transfer this money to the beneficiaries through the procedures provided for by law and after the procedure with the Court of Auditors has been completed. The Ministry has completed its work within these few days that I mentioned in my initial position. From that point on, we in the first few days came to an agreement, but we also met with representatives from the region and from Istia and Ethiopia. We've arranged a meeting with the representatives from Mandudi. I shall therefore repeat what I said earlier to Mr Karathanasopoulos, namely that we are responding to the demands of the municipalities themselves in relation to infrastructure projects which are part of the programmes and are now being financed, which had not been done for many years, when the country had the economic potential. Instead of implementing such infrastructure, money was given elsewhere for other purposes. That is now the case with these narrow restrictions, the suffocating budgetary constraints we have. Nevertheless, it is our political will and choice to finance such projects and that is what we are doing throughout the country, both from the "PHILDIMOS" programmes and from the NSRF. I will end by repeating, because you have again mentioned the issues of allowances to citizens, that these allowances will be granted, as given by the Ministry and by the recent very great catastrophe in eastern Attica. They will be given as soon as we receive this request - this is provided for by the law - by the relevant municipalities. This request has not been received. The record from the municipalities needs to be completed. So on your part, I would ask you very much to press on with self-government in this direction so that this record of the beneficiaries, citizens and businesses, of these allowances, can be completed, and we will soon be able to deal with the demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u33	We move on with the second under number 84/22-10-2018 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Ioannis Plakkatakis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Procurement and installation of a National Integrated Maritime Surveillance System (NIOI) in the eastern Aegean’. Here you go, Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in 2014, the former Government of New Democracy, after laborious efforts, managed and secured by various funds such as the Internal Security Fund, the Maritime Fisheries Fund, the NSRF, global funding of over EUR 250 million for modernisation, as well as the upgrading of the operational capacity of the Port Authority, with modern maritime surveillance and media equipment, in order to upgrade its operation and clearly be able to respond better to its mission. In May 2018, with a question that we tabled together with my colleague Mr Athanasios, we tried to stimulate the honor of your predecessor to speed up the launching of a very important project for us, the most emblematic work for the Port Body, the National Integrated Maritime Surveillance System, known as ASSOCI. For those who do not know it is a project consisting of radar, but also of visual instruments, which can give a real picture of the islands of the south-eastern Aegean. It is a project of which he had taken into account his importance and by a Joint Committee of the Port Body and OHIM, by the Executive Planning Council and, of course, by the European Commission in July 2015, recognising its importance and importance. Since then, however, things have been going worse, even though Mr Kurublish has told us that this is a complex project, that synergy is needed. There are already objections from the contracting authority. Of course there are objections and anguish from the Ministry's services. But you know, while we were all waiting for it to be published - and this is the most important one - that is when the specific competition issue will finally be published - we had a preliminary notice last 15 years, which did not launch this project. And you know, Minister, why this happened? Since the consultation of the technical specifications of this project had been completed, Mr Kourublis comes and essentially requires the six-year guarantee of good operation of this project instead of two years. Firstly, this and secondly, it is obliged to install four hundred and twenty miles of optical fibre on twelve islands of the eastern Aegean. The question is: Is the information true or is it not true that the responsible authority of the EEA does not grant the pre-authorised funding, because it has reasonable doubts as to the implementation of this project within this timeframe? Is it true that, although technical specifications have been finalised, there are still elements in their bodies which cause significant unnecessary costs, about EUR 12 million? Is it true that the requirement of the six-year period, as I have said, to guarantee good functioning without any increase in the budget? Can the Government, Minister, today give us a specific date for the publication of the declaration? And if we all recognise - and I believe that this is a very high national security project, what measures does the government intend to take - and I conclude, Mr President - to ensure that this very important work is not lost for our country, which, among other things, will make our country still unresolved with regard to the partners and of course with regard to the management of maritime borders and the problem of immigration? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, in fact the task of supplying and installing the National Integrated Maritime Surveillance System, the well-known EUR 62 million budget, is undoubtedly the largest project managed by the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy. For its completion, I would like to assure you that the Co-Presponsible Services have been working methodically for too long. This is a project specifically mentioned in the recommendations of the evaluation report on the implementation of Schengen, which Greece must comply with. I must tell you that this work is also for us, it is also very important for the Ministry of Shipping. However, I would like to disagree with you that the ministers of government with their constant omissions have done - your expression, Mr Plakkatakis - honest efforts not to complete the work. This has no basis. Proof is that the application for evaluation of the implementation of the 'Segen acquis' in the field of external borders, which led to the need for such a project, took place in 2010. In the five years that followed, an inter-class working group was set up for the development and evaluation of the feasibility study, i.e. the development of the EGETH study, between 23-10-2012, I assure you that the data are accurate - and 15-10-2013, but no further action was taken to promote or mature the project until the project was presented to the Chief of National Defence Staff on 8 December 2014. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] From 2015 until today, a multitude of interclassical preparation team was set up, the well-known OPE, consisting of members of the Armed Forces, the Greek Police and the Port Authority, held the technical dialogue with the market, which lasted, Mr Plakaotakis, a hundred and seven days and attended by over seventy economic operators from around the world, while twenty-five meetings were held. The Technical Specification issue was then drawn up, which was put into public consultation again with wide participation. The Technical Specification Committee has worked out the results of the public consultation and made the necessary improvements to the Technical Specification issue with a view to the cost-effectiveness of the project, i.e. removal of unnecessary costs which did not confer the corresponding operational benefit. It extended competition and safeguarded the public interest. Indicative of the maturity of the project is that, on 17-8-2018, our body published a preliminary notice in consultation with the Special Coordination and Management Agency, the Asylum Fund - which is known to you -, Migration and Integration of the Internal Security Fund and other resources of the Ministry of Finance and Development, which performs the tasks of the responsible authority of the Internal Security Fund, certainty in accordance with the definitions set out in Article 25 of the ECG 514/2014. In any case, it is obvious that this is a very complex task involving synergy with other ministries and institutions, and when planning it we have been called upon to deal with a large number of complex procedural and technical issues. Unfortunately, all this takes time and I believe that any delay is fully justified both on the part of the body and on the part of the responsible authority, the authority responsible for evaluating and integrating the project. In addition to that, I would like to point out that the honourable Member's question has not been asked by the responsible authority as a ground for not issuing the call for funding. At the same time, we're in constant...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, may I request your tolerance in proportion to the previous ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u39	I've already given you tolerance, and because of sympathy, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u40	I know, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u41	All right, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u42	I would like to say to you, Mr President, that we are in constant contact with the Ministry of Economy and Development and with his relevant departments, so that this project can be implemented with an articulate development plan known to you as modular, with intermediate and partial receipts and payments, with partial receipts of the project to which you have referred. This will lead to the simultaneous execution of different phases and will save valuable time. I shall conclude, Mr President, and in my denunciation, I may refer to other elements, if necessary. However, I would like to assure you that the efforts we are making are ambitious in order to complete the work. And they are not "friendly" according to your claim, so that the work is not completed. And all of this, which you have raised, is not a choice for us, it is simply the complexity of the procedures, the delay that has arisen, it has led to the fact that it has not been completed until this time when we are discussing your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Plakyotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, no younger than today's Minister's answer. Mr Kouvelli, I would like to clarify that the funding for these programmes is for the 2014-2020 programming period. So what you say about the previous period has nothing to do with it. You kept the specifications of this program from the beginning of 2016 in the drawer and you did nothing until then. Mr Kourublis told us that he has completed the public consultation of the technical specifications. Why have you not, to date, publicly proclaim this tender? So what did you tell us today? Anything you need time. You want four, fourteen, twenty-four years? How many years do you want? Do you know very well that payments must be completed by 31 December 2022? Eventually, Mr. Kuvelis, do you want this project or not? Do you realize that this is a very critical national period for our country? A project that will contribute to safeguarding our country's maritime borders at a time when we have an increased challenge for our neighbours, at a time when we have irresponsible and dangerous positions by Mr Kotzias, which are also made for communication reasons, for extending our national villages, which are sure to increase our neighbour's provocation? What more do we need to do to convince you that this work is absolutely necessary? Do you not know that there are objections from the European Commission, which are likely to cut us off funding from this project? You do not know that there are objections and anguish from the services of the Port Authority? Do you intend, Minister, to strengthen these services so that the competitive process can proceed quickly? I imagine you also know from your previous capacity that the great, if you like, of Greek-Turkish relations is who will quickly manage the issues of research and rescue. So, what do you do for all this? And you are discovering last hour again today that the project is complex, that there must be consultations with the co-legislative ministries and all that. Look, all these are excuses. You shorten up, complete this very important national project, because it is a national project, it is a project to strengthen the country's national security and leave the excuses. Now, if you don't want to do it, you can tell us clearly. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kouvelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u46	Mr Plakkatakis, I was hoping that with all the things I told you, I would have convinced you that this project we want to do so, we are promoting it. And that's what we do. And in answer to your specific question, I must tell you that in the time I have the honour of being at the Maritime Ministry, this issue is being promoted as a matter of priority in order to complete it. Also, be sure that there will be no loss of any deadline that may affect the final objective. And the aim is to ensure that this work is made available to our country, with all that you have said. But I want to assure you, in answering the question. I demand that I have the same sensitivity, the same interest and concern in the matter of the country's national security. I can assess everything else as an unnecessary reason, and indeed a reason why I would say that it is being submitted and I would say, dangerously, when it comes to the issues of national security and the protection of our country's rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. The sixth question will be discussed under number 73/16-10-2018 in the context of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: "Ireland is entitled to join the universal application of the transport equivalent from 1 to 2019." The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Santorinios. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, I have put a question to the Prime Minister, who is also a MP in Heraklion, and of course the timely question that we are discussing today, about Crete's universal request to join the provisions of the Transport Equivalent Act within the universal application that will take place from 1 January 2019. The exception made in the county seems to me to be unfair and unequivocal. It is stated specifically that the transport equivalent will apply to all islands for the inhabitants and goods of all islands, except Crete, Evia and Lefkada. As you know, Minister, in no way - except for traditional geographical areas - Evia and Lefkada are not today considered islands. They have a fixed connection and therefore cannot be compared with Crete. If there is any other reason or other reasons you have not analysed, I think you should expose them. The high cost for the products and transport of the Cretans is - I believe - the government which must be included in the transport equivalent and in Crete, so that both the basic goods for each family and the operational costs of the companies are reduced and, of course, we must have a competitive economy both for agriculture and for the farming of the island and for all the activities. I would therefore ask you if you are prepared to rethink this decision immediately so that the corresponding cost for both Crete and the Cretan is included in the 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u49	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. You'll allow me to say two words about the earthquake that happened. The relevant directorate of our Ministry, the Department of Port and Building Infrastructure is leaving with step by step with the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Infrastructure to check the damages that exist in Zakynthos and Kyllini. I'm sorry, but it's an emergency, and I think I should have informed the House. Now let's go to Mr. Kegeroglu's question. As you know, Mr Kegeroglu, the concept of an island cost compensation introduced by Law 4551/2018 results from a very specific formula, with budgetary, population and development factors. These insularity factors are formulated on objective criteria, based on the exclusion of residents from services, such as health services, education services, public services and the need for these residents to travel by sea to serve by these services. In pilot implementation, the population served is about three hundred thousand. In universal application, with this exception, it is about eight hundred and fifty thousand, while only the population of Crete, as you can see, is six hundred and twenty-three thousand. Based on what I said before, Crete, due to the large size, does not present to the same extent the difficulties and particular circumstances of islanders of other smaller islands. For example, you know very well that almost most of the patients in need of further care are transferred to Heraklion, to the University Hospital, so this lack of access to health is covered by the services of Crete itself. So the inhabitants of Crete do not need to be transported by ferry to meet these essential needs to be served by the services. I will only tell you: Crete is a region with four counties and is an island. The Ionian Region is thirteen islands. The Sporades - Thessaly Region - are five islands. The North Aegean is nine islands. The South Aegean is forty-eight islands. An island has remote Crete, which is Gadus, and this is included in the transport equivalent. I can also tell you financial data, but I'll leave it for the next answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u51	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I take the view that there is no ban from the European Union, otherwise you would have a reference to this. And, of course, we must say that the Constitution when it provides for special attention to the islands, in order to deal with problems relating to their maritime exclusion, is not mentioned if it is small, large or if it is to do with a high or lower per capita National Gross Product, for example. Because in any case, it should be said that the characteristics of the economy of the island of Rhodes are similar to the characteristics of the economy of Crete. See Participation in National Gross Product, per capita income and the rest. But I have to say something about what you mentioned that Crete is linked to the islands. This also gives an argument to be within the beneficiaries and Crete and the Cretan economy and the Cretans. And I'll explain why. For example, as far as livestock is concerned, the transport of feed from the mainland - raw materials, always - and processing in Crete is subject to a transport cost far greater than that in the land area. So this transport cost is paid by the Cretans, too, and the other islanders, who are supplied by Crete with the corresponding products. I have to tell you that on many islands of the Dodecanese the connection is not direct Piraeus - islands, but it is via Heraklion, through Crete and, of course, if we do not continue transporting a product, then it is not subject to the transport equivalent except for transporting from Crete to the island, so it has already been charged at a significant cost. Well, the Constitution's check is very clear. Mr. Kourublis was more specific. He told Mr. Arnautakis, in reply to this issue, that: "My Stavros, a hundred fifty million is only Crete. It is therefore for budgetary reasons.’ That was Mr. Kurubli's answer. Your answer here in Parliament was that "we will review it, it is a big island, it may be smaller costs than they are within the terrestrial zone". If that's possible! If you can tell us this argument, which really overthrows the welfare of the Constitution itself. We are saying that it should be applied to both Crete and Cretans. It is very important that Crete, like other regions of course, participates with a significant proportion in the Gross National Product. But I will tell you this: While we have about 5.5% participation in the Gross Domestic Product, the agricultural sector contributes about 10%. What does that mean? That there are products which are exported and which lose their competitiveness for the reason of increased transport, because they are necessarily going middle of a continental country, are being transported to Europe's markets with refrigerators, with trucks and all the means of transport and do not receive this aid. The same thing, as I said, is the example of raw materials for animal feed. It's not just administrative service. In addition, administrative services are now made electronically from every place and health services will reduce travel by technology. But when we have an emergency, you should know that the movement is not carried by sea, because the non-urgent incidents are dealt with in Rhodes. If it's something that can't be handled, it goes to Athens or...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u53	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u54	...or Heraklion, with the corresponding instrument available to the EAW, and there we do not have a metaphor. So your argument doesn't think it's right. I must tell you that there is no European directive to be mentioned. The only reason is to be confused with Manos Hadjidaki's song, but Manos Hatzidakis didn't write it from a zero base. It is pedestrian, it refers to "Capetan Michaeli" by Nikos Kazantzakis: "It was not an island, it was a harvest that was found on the sea". However, it did not refer to Crete. He referred to the sister of Alexander the Great, who was rotating around Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u55	Good. And with this nice report, we're closing down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u56	So, because there is no ban, you have to explain why you exclude Crete from the transport equivalent and deprive the Cretans of their inalienable right. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u57	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Three islanders here, one from Crete, one from Rhodes, one from Andros, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u59	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u60	I will not go into what you are trying to do, put Crete with the other islands and more, with Rhodes. I think it's not fair what you're doing. I told you before that I would speak with economic data and answer you. How is the transport equivalent calculated? It is calculated by the distance it travels in kilometres and the corresponding cost of the CATEL. If, then, someone gets the cost of transporting third-seat passengers Piraeus - Crete, the ferry pays 29 euros. Do you know how much it's estimated with the Kappa Tau? It's estimated at 30,45 euros. The difference, in other words, is less. So let's go to the next one. Corresponding distances, Piraeus - Heraklion: To carry a palette without VAT is 25 euros. The same distance of Piraeus - Kalamata roads are 28 euros, i.e. minus 3 euros. So, as far as what you say is concerned, it is not the case here. But let us say another thing, that all the products in Crete that are transported to the islands receive the compensation for island costs. In other words, every business that takes products from Crete takes the cost compensation to bring the products to its door. So the goods of Crete that are transported to the islands get this compensation for island costs. Report the feed. You should have known that feed, because it is financed by another programme of the Rural Development, is not eligible for the islands in the transport equivalent. Other products are eligible. Finally, we obviously have to go gradually, because we have to be serious, we have to have a specific budget. It's not a matter of budget. It could increase. But to have a specific budget, to calculate what happens each time in pilot implementation, in normal application, and possibly very soon to see Crete enter the transport equivalent. But this must be done by study, Mr Kegeroglu. Unfortunately, since you recognise the usefulness of this transport equivalent, I have never seen any of your governments have done even a study of the application of the transport equivalent. The transport equivalent was brought by our government into budgetary crisis and with national budget money. You, even though you're sensitive, seem very unconscious to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u61	Did I curse you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. At this point, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question report to the House on Monday 29 October 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: “Common work as an alternative form of sentence/Statistics”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 80/19-10-2018 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘Procedure for the licensing and retroactive taxation of online betting companies’. 3. The Question No 79-19-10-2018 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Available management of secret funds". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 87/22-10-2018, a topical question by the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Deep in the pocket puts the Greek for health on SYRIZANEL!" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 77/17-10-2018 by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Recapitalisation and reordering of the Greek banking sector". 3. The Question No 68-16-10-2018 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek public and making available for social purposes". 4. The Question No 55/11-10-2018 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" is uncontrolled. 5. The question by No 52/10-10-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Obligation to apply the laws of the Greek state by the Greek courts of all levels." 6. The 11/1-10-2018 topical question of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Safe in the city of Athens". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 2/1-10-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "An essential violence was carried out by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Prespecies' agreement." 8. The Question No 36/8-10-2018 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Assessment of General Government expenditure". 9. The 19/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on "The rest of the Molyviati Fund". 10. The 17/2-10-2018 topical question by MP MEP I of the Central Association, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of Mr.128/75 for the help of the East Attica". 11. The Question No 43/9-10-2018 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "About a philosophical event in Florina". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-26-S1-commons.u63	With the agreement of the House at 11.00 noon, the sitting for the next Monday, October 29, 2018, at 17.00, on the subject of this House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on the No 1/8-10-2018 topical question, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
