ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity entitled 'Security and pension arrangements - Treatment of undeclared work - Strengthening the protection of workers - Commission of unaccompanied minors and other provisions'. Before going on, I have a statement to make to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity "Security and pension arrangements - Coping with undeclared work - Strengthening the protection of workers -Committee on Unaccompanied minors and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 2 July 2018 to discuss the draft law at one to two single meetings in principle, on articles and amendments. From the ministerial amendments - from what I have heard from the ladies of the Chamber - but one which Mrs Papanatsiou will come to present at some point because she is the State Secretary responsible, the others have been discussed in committee and have already been incorporated into the bill in the form of articles. The parliamentary amendments, which I assume the Minister responsible, Mrs Ahtsioglu, will be accepted, unless the Ministers present, the Deputy Minister, the State Secretary, informs us. When she goes up to the Chair, I would ask her to say which ones she accepts from the MEPs, which ones she doesn't accept to have a picture of you. The registration will be done electronically. It will begin as soon as the SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Vardakis, has come up, and as soon as Mr Metarakis, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, comes down from Step by step. Does anyone want to speak on a point of order? Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u2	When are we going to finish, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u3	Seven colleagues spoke to the committee. Let's see how many will be registered. Perhaps we will end today. If it can't be done, we'll go tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u4	However, the intention is to end today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u5	We cannot say that now. As soon as Mr. Metarakis comes down, we'll have a picture and we'll talk about it and we'll all decide together. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Socrates Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard these days, especially from the Members of the New Democracy, that we are indisputable, that we are liars - Mr Mitsotakis's line - that we do not show the real facts, the undeclared work, the economy, unemployment, pensions, cuts and that we must be ashamed. Ladies and gentlemen, tell me, indeed: Who are exactly liars? Who's right in here to be ashamed? Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, you have not understood that in five years you have abolished all concepts of law in this country, any concept of a welfare state. You left millions of our fellow citizens uninsured, without medical care, and the current government should have come to cover these people. You delivered a public social security system with a deep deficit with a 1,1 billion deficit, with a risk that we will have a pension payment deficit in January 2015. In the period 2010-2014 with eleven laws you have cut the salaries and pensions from 20% to 50% and you have actually kept some 45 billion in the pockets of employees and pensioners. I will submit in the Minutes the laws you have cut, the reductions, to see who the liars are and who are true in this Chamber. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have charged farmers with debts and affliction. We are by law giving them the opportunity today to regulate debts with the possibility of even deleting, not only interest and capital increase. You have the courage to talk about the farmers when you closed the unique disguise, the Agricultural Bank, and you certainly left them with this phase of the altars that we are today. Do you know what you did for farmers? You charged the Greek people with 3 billion fines of wrong handling and illegal subsidies that you led to the pockets of the left. This money is paid by the Greek people even today. You've closed off the only utilitarian utility organization. We have enabled our fellow citizens to regulate the loans they received from the OEC and even by deleting even capital. You've booked schools and we're opening schools, opening new kindergartens. For the first time in 2017 and 2018 after eight whole years, schools operate normally with teachers and books on time. You fired teachers, school guards, municipal police, and even medical staff. And you want to see the only increase we made in insurance contributions, 4% that we made 6%, where did the money go? Because you made increases, but the money didn't go where it was supposed to be. You paid 149 million in 2014 in hospitals. We gave 540 million in 2016 and 580 million in 2017, i.e. 431 million more. And you have the nerve today to talk about a public health system. We hire colleagues in health and education that you have fully depreciated. You went bankrupt the country and you poored the Greeks, 25% of GDP did wings and it would be good to look back at that time, see what Mrs Bakoyannis and your party's current secretary told you. Politician cons he was putting you down, political deceivers he was bringing you up. It's not us, it's them. We stabilise the economy and restore the lost dignity of the Greek people. You forget that for eight years we have experienced and experienced a dismantling of social rights. You forget that you have completely rejected labour rights. You abolished mediation and collective bargaining. We're reinstated. You forget that unemployment has escalated at an unprecedented high rate of around 28%, with unemployed to a maximum of one and a half million. I'll put these in the Minutes to see who's lying and who's telling the truth. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have reduced unemployment by substantial interventions and we are constantly reducing it, unprecedented not only for Greek data but also for the whole of Europe. You forget that flexible forms of work and low pay have been the norm in the working environment for several years. For us, they are an exception. I heard Mr Mitsotakis drop us off a few days ago for 350 euros wages. Mr. Mitsotakis, it was better to be a little more careful. You forsake us for your own unbalanced policies that have really destroyed the social fabric of the country. You legislated, if I'm not mistaken, and Mr. Metarakis will tell us after that Step, to see who the liars are and who the real ones are - the minimum wage and not just the minimum wage. You have also legislated the underpaid wage for young people, so that you send three hundred thousand young people, the country's minds, migrants. Really, can you tell me what the measures you have taken in favour of workers were? Tell me a measure that you have taken in favour of the workers for five years. You have reached the point where you are hitting the weakest social group, the unemployed. Mr. Brutsis is not here to tell us why his law was to reduce the unemployment fund to 50%. And do you have the courage today to talk about a social state, about a rule of law? Really, you should be ashamed or at least silenced. Have you ever laid rules on contractors' status and do we not remember it? Never! The contractors left the workers unpaid in a working jungle experienced by the entire Greek society. Workers were most often unable to claim their wages, all rules and laws were being circumvented. You put the country in the memoirs and we take it out. To what I said before, if you really do - I say this with pity - a sign of dignity, come here to answer clearly. And finally stop doing the black white. What you haven't even said, and I think you're ready to tell us, is that SYRIZA in 2010 put the country in the memoirs. That's what we still miss. So, ladies and gentlemen, today we are putting, with another bill, a brake and limiting labour precariousness, through an integrated system of rules which introduces responsibility for the contraaor, the contractor, the subcontractor and the workers. We have given, given and will continue to fight in all areas, strengthening workers' rights, always protecting all those vulnerable groups that really need it. The battles that this government has fought, but also the victories that have earned so far, are clearly among the workers whose negotiating position, after several years of deterioration, is very strong. For us, it is the great bet to restore the well-functioning labour market, to eliminate undeclared work, to create more and better jobs, to increase the minimum wage. It is the answer that even in a narrow financial context, this government has given priority to making substantial contributions, in the light of human dignity and substance, in order to keep society up. The overall change in the logic of the fine from purely collective, to a logic of more justice to the undeclared worker, is our priority. Today there is already the discount for some who say that "we make discounts on employers", from 10,500 to 7,000 if the employer breaks and pays the fine in ten days. This discount is abolished and we say that the employer will only have a discount when he hires the worker and, in fact, full-time. For the first time, you consider that the employment relationship lasted for three months for the worker's insurance and the corresponding insurance contributions are paid. The new Republic's rapporteur also said that concrete and decisive measures were taken for the day to combat undeclared work. They said the control mechanisms were strengthened. Mr Metarakis, I really told you before, I appreciated you very much, but you cannot twist everything. What are you talking about? You have deactivated control mechanisms, the EEAS, the state's only control mechanism for uninsured work, in all regions. What are you talking about? Who are you working with? And that proves to be evidence. We have received subordinated Labour Inspectorates in all regions. Do not forget that Mr Brutsis - and I say his name to answer us, if he comes later - has abolished two hundred organic positions in the APRC. Who would you do the tests with? We have taken care to strengthen control mechanisms with human resources, strengthen the existing institutional framework, protect workers from undeclared work. Let me remind you that EUR 7600,000 has been approved for quality controls in areas of high infraction, as well as for upgrading information and legal advice to workers. I would also remind you that with Law 4488/2017, which we brought in last September, we have passed a number of provisions to strengthen the workers' position with regard to employers' immunity practices. The electronic overtime submission, the electronic payroll via a bank, gives the workers a big breath. The workers and trade unions were fighting against it for thirteen years. We did it. With today's bill we continue to make substantial contributions. The general obligation to list pupils, students and students conducting practical or apprenticeships in any undertaking shall be introduced in order to make the checks of the relevant APRC more effective. Recruitment and training measures for construction workers shall be taken. Our first concern is the protection, in fact, of workers and the reduction of accidents at work. While the rest of Europe is faced with its principles and values, we are opening paths of democracy and dignity. We are legislating on unaccompanied, unprotected applicants and not just. It is an intervention - a section of the Ministry, an integrated framework for the protection of the vulnerable group, which sincerely needs special protection. We have a duty to protect these children, who are trying to save themselves from wars, poverty, violence, oppression, arrive in Greece unaccompanied. Ladies and gentlemen, all these legislative interventions by the Government, and the previous ones, concerning labour relations, Mrs Gennamas, first in an interview with her, called them 'degrading the social state'. Yes, Mrs. Gennamas, we degrade, but we degrade the working middle ages, the social middle ages, which you built with the supposedly neoliberal right. Because now we have another right, the Austrian model of industrial relations. Unless you agree. Mr Mitsotakis and the Acoustic Opposition painted all of these memorials and, fourthly, when the whole of Europe is talking about 'clean exit'. Mr. Mitsotakis, we're going to do you the favor, so you can get a weight off of it. Yeah, it's a memorial, but with a difference. It has nothing to do with your own monuments of the destruction and poverty of the Greek people. It is the memorial of restoring collective agreements, which for you was the left-wing idealism. I believe you remember that, unless you've changed your mind. It is the memorandum of restoring normality on the labour market, when for you the degrading wages you have imposed would allegedly create growth and competition. It's our memorial that puts brakes on the injustices, on the injustices of an unbalanced insurance system. It's the Greek worker's memorandum of protection. It's the Memorandum that puts a brake on the immunity of poor employers. It is the memorial that gives perspective and hope to the helpless, the poor, the unaccompanied minors, the refugees, the immigrants. It is the Memorandum giving access and rights to the medical care of uninsured persons. It is our memorandum of solidarity, humanity and democracy, against social exclusion and xenophobia. It is the Memorandum that restores the dignity of the Greek people. It's our memorial that puts an end to corruption, lawlessness and complexity. And you know, it's what bothers you most. Because your parties have invested in corruption and complexity. And now the cord is tightening and it seems clear that you've ever felt it. It is our Memorandum for which the Greek people will judge us at the end of the four-year period. And one last thing, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation. After you really got rid of the pensioners, you are now being cut off by pensioners. In fact, you have tabled amendments, and Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennamas, to ensure that pensions are not cut. You have jointly put an amendment - so you have worked together and you have common interests - on pensions, but put a paragraph that states that up to 1-12-2018 you will return the 420 million that your parties owe to the Greek people. And so, in practice, you will be showing interest, since you have now been caught by the pain for the pensioners, and you will make it easier for us, in fact, to do our best to avoid cutbacks. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, you will once again prove to be populists, hypocrites, but above all dangerous to the country. Mr President, allow me to say an amendment. The provisions of Article 20 of Law 38693 do not expressly refer to escort staff in support of disabled persons participating in camping programmes. A clear reference should therefore be made to these services, since such staff provide services such as those referred to in the above provisions. I would ask Mrs Fotou or Mrs Ahtsioglu - I don't know who - to accept her. It is also an amendment which solves a problem faced by people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u7	The rapporteur, Mr Metarakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is, in fact, a summing up of provisions on insurance, labour, immigration and the committee of unaccompanied minors, as well as a series of incoherent provisions and amendments on a number of issues which are problematic. There's a little of it. But it doesn't include the big one. Today we heard the majority rapporteur dedicating eight minutes of his speech to opposition. SYRIZA at every opportunity seeks to find an alibi for his own actions, relinquishing that he is government and therefore the opposition is not responsible for his own actions, but his own choices. We have also listened with particular interest to celebrate your own memorandum, which cost Greek citizens around EUR 100 billion. The bill is minor. What is of major importance is the amendment announced by the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, and tabled today by the Members of the New Democracy. We are asking all the parties in this House to vote against the pension cut, which you, and only you, have legislated to apply from 01-01-2019 to the pensioners already in office. I would remind you that for those who have submitted their papers since 2016, they have already been in force and receive the reduced pensions. It's a pension cut completely inappropriate. It is the result of your own economic options from 2015 until today. We heard, Minister, yesterday on television you were leaving New Democracy for 2010-2014 and asking us to apologize. First of all, I would remind you that in 2010 the New Democracy was not a government. It is also a constant tactic for SYRIZA to confuse parliamentary periods. In 2010, the New Democracy disagreed with the policy mix of the memorandum and, on the other hand, opposed the lack of a national plan at the time, which led the country to the first Memorandum. But if you want to talk about the New Democracy, you must judge a government from the day it was delivered to the day it was delivered. And the New Democracy received a country in recession and delivered it with growth. He received a country with a primary deficit and delivered it with a primary surplus. He received a country with a current account deficit and handed it over for the first time since 1948. He received a country outside the markets and returned it to the markets. We made a tough choice. We have, however, succeeded in stabilising our insurance system by 2060, as the European Commission report in 2014 admits. That is why, in the fifth assessment that was not closed, there were very few limiting provisions for insurance. You, in turn, received a growth country in 2015, returned it to the recession and in 2015 and 2016. You had anemic growth in 2017 and you continue with anemic growth in 2018. Essentially in 2015 with your own actions, which you closed the banks and brought the third memorandum, you practically threw the Greek people's efforts in the cart. You brought extra measures for the pension. You brought increases in age limits. You abolished the ESS. You have brought in a total of twenty-one reductions in pensions and increases in contributions. I submitted them in particular, with a list, at the committee meeting. The majority rapporteur had nothing to say about that. With your disastrous policy in 2015, but above all with your continued inability to return the country to strong positive growth rates, you have had to bring the measures to pension. You brought them in two instalments. By the Katrugalos Act, because you did not close the first assessment, you established the concept of personal dispute. We said that means abolishing pensions, reductions. You told us, "No, no, no, you lie, you cause terror to retired people." But you came after the second assessment with Law 4472/2017 and abolished this personal difference. You have lived in the country three years of growth and creation at a time when the whole of the European Union has developed rapidly. Just compare how Cyprus, Ireland and Portugal developed in this four-year period compared to Greece, and you will understand what damage you have done in this place. Pensioners and insured persons pay your incapacity, the political fidelity of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Varoufakis in 2015, the 2016 recession, the low growth in 2017. One, one is a record of the steps of failure, which you systematically want to load on the opposition to a desperate election game in the face of the forthcoming elections. Ladies and gentlemen, since you believe it and say it for free on the channels, we give you the opportunity to come to the national delegation today and vote on the New Democracy amendment. Similar amendments - to be fair - have tabled other opposition parties. However, as you have proved insolent in each of your announcements, so you now prove yourself. You haven't restored your 13th pension. You haven't restored the minimum wage. Unlike your signature, you released your team redundancies. You shut the OGA down and you're talking about pensions! You have increased your dues. The world can no longer pay its insurance and tax obligations, ladies and gentlemen. You are now coming again with the change in the method of calculating insurance contributions for freelance professionals, imposing a further 17% increase. You come with chapter 1 of the bill to bring in some of the provisions on the harmonisation of insurance, which only in name remains uniform, while in fact it is a fragmented body, without having a single benefit regulation after two years. Do you remember what you said about the insurance, that the provisions will come and will be consolidated? We're still waiting for them. Partially, in every bill, some provision comes up for the insurance, which troubles insured and retired people. In Part II of today’s bill you say that you are bringing major sectors into the framework for uninsured work. Of course, with the first article in Part II, you are confirming our fine of EUR 10 500 - which has resulted and I will come back - which together with other combined and coherent policies had led to a reduction in undeclared work by twenty-seven percentage points. I'm not saying it. They say it to your Ministry, the detailed calculation table of undeclared work, Minister, in January 2018. We had this debate in committee, Minister, comparing in January 2013 to January 2015 that we delivered with January 2018 that you published the latest data. The Minister was celebrating yesterday because it says that within three years they reduced undeclared work by six units. By twenty-seven points, New Democracy is reducing undeclared work, six SYRIZA units, and you celebrate! Well, it's positive, though. We do not underestimate the fact that there has been a reduction. But the difference is monstrous and comparisons do not favour you. I would remind you that the decline in unemployment started in New Democracy in 2013 and linearly since then has been decreasing. And you have not succeeded in speeding up the rate of decline in unemployment compared to the rate in the period 2013-2015. The rate of decline of unemployment is linear and stable from the maximum point of 27%, which was in the second quarter of 2013. You come with a system of discounts. You are, in fact, distorting the deterrent and exemplary nature of the fine. You motivate employers to choose undeclared work. You know that by means of a simple contract they will manage to save the big fines, which we agree - I hope - they have worked deterrently in the recent past. You are actually closing your eyes on the violation behaviour, and you are lacking - and that is what the institutions have said and are right - every prospect of rewarding the consequent employers. The other provisions on work are in the same logic. I want to make a special reference to Article 9, to the provision for contractors. You are essentially asking private businesses and professionals to take on the control role that the state authorities must have. I remind you that in 2012 we passed a law - yes, we, the New Democracy government - which protects temporary workers. You are now coming with Article 9 to tell us that you, as a government, are unable to control the implementation of the legislation, which is good for workers, and you are asking private companies to become auditors, but - with the same article - the absolute access to any information they need to exercise that role. If they do not have access, Minister, to the contractor's bank accounts, to all the data, in all the books, one who gives the work cannot confirm whether the worker has been paid or not. Declaration is not covered as you write in the article. Let's go to Part III, for the immigrant: Today three and a half thousand children are unaccompanied in Greece. The accommodation places you have predicted after three years are only a thousand. We have seven hundred children who are officially in a state of constellation. And that's the official evidence. There is one weakness of you, in general, in migration, in managing the infrastructure, and you have made our islands - mainly of the northeastern Aegean - human warehouses. The infrastructure deficit for unaccompanied children is two and a half thousand jobs. And it's too big! Of course, here, according to your practice, you are taking advantage of this legislation to find a window for appointments and appointments, with the criteria for the recruitment of Commissioners to be set backwards, with a procedure to be retrospectively defined - and you do not know whether the AACC will be involved - and with fees that will also be retrospectively fixed. You are asking, in other words, for a white check from the National Representation, taking advantage of immigration, to appoint people. Let's go to the amendments and to Part IV, ladies and gentlemen: SYRIZA's bills always contain the same features. They have provisions for appointments, have provisions for extensions of time, have provisions for money laundering and have provisions for direct awards and contract amendments. The same recipe you follow here. We don't agree with that. We do not agree, for example, with the way you manage public property, with the granting to bodies governed by private law and public buildings, without criteria. We have announced that these concessions will be controlled. We do not agree, for example, with Article 47, where it gives you the right to distribute where you want the revenue of the new year's lottery or do not agree with the ex post legalisation of operational expenditure of 5 million with Article 49. We also do not agree with most of the amendments incorporated into the bill and concerning public administration, because here too we see your inability to implement your own adopted laws and to be consistent with the deadlines which we, as government, have achieved. We do not agree with extensions, because they prove incapable of dealing with serious issues within the timeframe set by the law or determined by the real needs. You say that the murder period - I take it for example - is May, June and July and you bring an amendment on 9 July, which will be published on 15 July, to give an extension. You just lost the season! So it's all written in the leg! You are also giving an extension to the OPEKA regulation, where four months ago we told you that you did not have time to get through the deadlines that you have set. Then I was the rapporteur and you told me, Minister, that I am in danger and how to prevent everything. Today this amendment is coming for an extension. To close, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are leaving behind three years lost, three years without growth, with the backing to the real economy. You've trapped a whole country in your ideas, in your inability and lies. But that's over. You're counting your last moments. And this is seen in every word of yours, in every attempt to weave another false account. We will not allow you to do that. The Greeks will not allow you to deprive them one day of their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u9	The reason is the special speaker of the Democratic Association Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos. When Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos is finished, I will inform you about the time it takes for the process to be completed on the basis of how many you have registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this bill reveals the sloppiness with which the Katorugalou law became, as well as the government's tactics of legislating by increasing bureaucracy, setting up structures and committees. Two years after the Katrugalou law was passed, we are discussing issues which should have been solved for two years. This only highlights the need to relaunch the debate on insurance on new bases, so that insurance can become truly sustainable. In this context, we consider it crucial that you go beyond your party knuckles and accept the amendment we have tabled. Of course, I am talking about the amendment to cancel pension reductions. I would remind you that the Democratic Alliance has tabled a proposal for a law on the cancellation of pension cuts. It has already been sent to the General Accounting Office of the State. I also give you the relevant document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the new calculation shows dramatic reductions from 1-1-2019. Do not forget that we also have a reduction in personal differences with pensioners losing from one to three pensions. For old pensions, the reduction reaches up to 18%, which will create new poverty. In fact, social costs will be incalculable, because we are going to a system of preferential benefits which violates every principle of proportionality, reciprocity and social justice. With this amendment, therefore, Mr Ministers, we are calling for the abolition of the provisions of Law 4472/2017, which reduces pensions from 1-1-2019. After all, Mr Ministers, the forecasts for the surpluses require our proposal to be accepted. So accept our amendment. This is left, this is progressive, that means supporting pensioners. I come to the bill and Part One, to insurance and pension issues: Article 3: The Minister referred yesterday to the provision of Law 4488/2017, which provides for the procedure by which contributions are wrongly paid, in order to distinguish these rules from them. On this occasion, we again underline that there is no clear solution to the issue of double contributions, in particular, Minister, as regards those insured in OGA and OAUs, who were mostly farmers registered in the Farmer's Register and were engaged in commercial activities with low-tier companies. That is why we requested a legislative provision for the definitive removal of unjustly charged OSH debts. With regard to the new architecture of the fine and undeclared work - Articles 5 to 8 - the conversion of the fine into declared work should aim to safeguard labour rights, but also to support businesses in the midst of the current crisis. The fine for undeclared has been effective. The Prime Minister said that two months ago in a speech. He admitted that over the last three years undeclared work has fallen from 19% to 13%. I wish the provisions of today's draft law on the conversion of declared work would bring better results. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot today welcome and applaud the employers who had uninsured workers and give them discounts for that reason. However, we are standing in the economic crisis, which has created huge issues in employers too. They also need our support, so that they can continue to work, so that they can have jobs. As regards Rule 6, in particular paragraph 3, I said yesterday to the committee our objections. According to it, the right of deduction referred to in paragraph 1 shall be maintained if the worker with a responsible declaration bearing the endorsement of the signature declares that he does not wish to be recruited and the employer, within the period referred to in paragraph 1, is recruiting other workers on a full-time basis. Here - you see, Minister - there is a serious chance that the undeclared worker will be exposed to various extortion, on the one hand, that a dead end can be started between employers and workers, which is the only aim of reducing undeclared work. That is why we consider, Minister, that this provision should be withdrawn. That was our proposal in committee, and today is our proposal: to withdraw this provision. Article 9: In fact, solidarity is a step. However, this will become a meteorological event, as you are going to do, because you are invoking European experience. Let me remind you here that in Greece, an institutional framework for work on contracts already exists. I recall: Article 68 of Law 3863/2010. Article 22 of L.4144/2013. Article 65 of Law 4281/2014. Article 51 of Law 4283/2016, your law. Articles 39 and 40 of Law 4488/2017. Your law again. Article 702 of the Civil Code concerning the employee's wages, which could also be extended to contractors. The question, Mr Ministers, is to lay down strict rules, which will serve as a protection network for those who provide their work in the framework of a project contract, which, however, hides a wage-earning job. Here there is a need for rules in the logic of the new architecture of the fine for undeclared, which will regulate the conversion of the contract of work into a contract of paid employment. Such rules will reveal real care to the world of work. Article 10: Practice and apprenticeship. Another issue that you are dealing with in fragmentary terms. Here, Minister, there is a need to modernise the system of vocational education and training. You're still bringing a layout in the middle of nowhere. You need to see it again. Article 12 concerns fines for changing working hours. It has been said by many that they are unduly high. You need to see this provision from the outset, taking into account market experience. You believe that the possibility that you give employers to update the "ERGANI" system for such changes through a sms will be effective. I wish it would work. No one would have a different opinion. However, the amount of fines is another issue, Minister. This cannot be achieved even by undeclared work, and it can be simply a change in the shift of a legally declared worker. And I come to the arrangements for unaccompanied minors, articles 13 to 32. Here, Minister, to make it clear that a legal framework for the protection of unaccompanied minors has existed since 2011 with their inclusion in the category of vulnerable people under Law 3907/2011. Since then there have been several regulations that enhance the protection of unaccompanied minors from third countries. Therefore, the impression that you want to give, that the framework is first regulated, is demolished. All you do is improve. I also pointed out our objections to the meetings of the committees. Article 15: Here, Minister, you turn public prosecutors into a judicial body, when they do not have the necessary support, the logistics infrastructure and have not been trained in matters relating to unaccompanied minors. So the process becomes time-consuming and bureaucratic, especially in the regions that are located and accumulate most of the unaccompanied minors, i.e. in Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki, as well as in the islands of the northern Aegean, Chios, Mytilini and Samos, which are, in fact, the first tracking centres. The result will be appalling in terms of delays. So you're gonna have to see this again. In addition, the time taken to inform the Public Prosecutor as soon as the minor is identified and the time taken to complete the designation procedure in accordance with Article 16 shall not be explicitly determined. It should also be stressed here, ladies and gentlemen, that Article 16 does not expressly provide for the immediate coverage of the essential living needs of unaccompanied minors - food, clothing - by the designated Commissioner, nor does there be any legislative provision for children separated from their family, so that the commission may also be assigned to a related member who so requests and after the appointment of the professional commissioner, if this is in the interests of the child. Article 19: Establishment of a three-member supervisory board for the supervision of committees. Another structure for unknown reasons, when according to EKK's data the number of registered unaccompanied minors is three thousand four hundred throughout Greece. It is, of course, a huge dream, I would say, Minister, that this structure will work effectively. We also have corresponding reservations in Articles 24 and 25 for the Register of Unaccompanied Adults and Professional Commissioners. With regard to Article 27, which provides for the establishment of the Juvenile Protection Directorate at the National Centre for Social Solidarity, we also have reservations. The major thing is to strike inefficiency, bureaucracy and complex administrative procedures and not to increase, of course. Madam Minister, another structure is being created, but without specifying what will be the process of staffing this address and, of course, the profile of the executives. We're moving to Part IV. Article 41: Under the proposed provision, the Association of Industries of Northern Greece - SWE - is recognised as an institution as an equal social partner of other representative employers' organisations, i.e. GSE, SEE, SETE and BSE. She says, the Minister, that the SWE operates a hundred years, that it mainly represents processing and industry, without geographical identification, and takes as a given the existence of a vacancy of representation, considering that BSE in recent years has been committed to services. Even if we accept, Minister, this reasoning, in the statutes of the SBBE itself - as amended in 2016 - it is stated that its purpose is to care for the industrial development of Northern Greece within the framework of the development of the national economy. Therefore, Minister, the regulation catalyses the equality of treatment of representative employers' organisations, which have already been chosen by the legislator as national-wide, providing, of course, an equal position in a regional employer. Then let us amend its statute, let it be registered in the respective employers' organization of Europe, 'Business Europe', and then we discuss it again. Moreover, as the regulation stands, it is even contrary to Article 3(2) of Convention 87/1948, which Greece has ratified by Decree-Law No 4204/1961. According to this, the public authorities must refrain from any intervention which may restrict the right of workers' and employers' organisations to freely elect their representatives. Article 44: Development of property by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity for mutually beneficial humanitarian purposes. There is no duplication of competence, as the explanatory statement claims, but the addition of another signature and a concentration of competence with the Minister. We do not agree with the abolition of the Social Residence Council. It also needs an exclusive deadline - for example one month - for their opinion. Article 45: Contracts with transport service providers for vulnerable groups. We agree. However, we are opposed to simplifying the system by reducing the regulatory acts adopted annually on the subject. Article 46. Social protection for citizens of third countries. Here, Ministers, we need to extend social protection in all cases on the basis of the principles of equal treatment. Article 48. The increase in the members of the EPC Board of Directors could only work positively in terms of better representation of the bodies. You should see this again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to ask the government to go over it, to get rid of strangles and obsessions, which only aim to cut off the social state policy built during the period of PASOK governance and finally to open its ears and eyes to consultation and dialogue. Society can't stand any more pressure. We therefore call for our amendment to be accepted on the non-pension of pensions. We are voting in favour of the principle. As far as the amendments are concerned, I shall refer in detail to my second language, waiting for our proposals to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u11	We proceed with the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. We're living the theater of irrationality. We have heard suggestions from all previous speakers, both from the rapporteurs and from the speaker of the Democratic Alliance, about omissions that have taken place, from one side to the other, while all of them have been governed. I wonder: Why have you not acted like this when you ruled? Today's government is counting over three and a half years of governance. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have lost your mark as left. I told you to the committees. We are talking about a pension that is falling apart, which has already collapsed. At the time of the crisis, the pensioner has suffered twenty-three reductions. In order to improve the situation, on the other hand, you are giving some crumbs in the form of the allowance, but no Greek citizen receives them as you have become Greece. For the most part, they are taken by illegal immigrants and by some Greek Roma citizens. But if you want to keep as long as you can and prolong pensions, you have decided to solve this problem, trying with your own mind to solve one more, the demographic issue. You're bringing illegal immigrants. By the end of July, others are returned to us by Germany, following a decision of the Federal Government of Germany. We'll have other unaccompanied refugees. Here, if you really wanted to prove how philanthropists you are about the articles concerning unaccompanied refugee, you should immediately return them to their homes and families. There was something heard by the SYRIZA rapporteur - in fact, he was clairvoyant in the face of Civic Opposition, New Democracy, but he did one omission, he also had to refer to PASOK - regarding the closure of the Agricultural Bank. Half of them, though. It did not refer to the reason why the Agricultural Bank was closed. When was it sold? Ten days immediately before the sale, this Bank had made the loans from the PASOK and the New Democracy, and by miracle, after ten days, the Agricultural Bank sold to private individuals. When are you really going to be an examination to find out exactly what happened, since you are so tired of farmers and of a multi-tool lost by the Agricultural Bank? SYRIZA's rapporteur also said we were coming out of the memos. When? With a strict commission until 2060 and a sale of public Greek property for ninety years? Here I should mention that there is a study of the Center for Liberal Studies "Marcos Dragoumis", which says that even greater tax burdens this year, before coming in the next burdens of 2019 and 2020, fall on the shoulders of Greek households and businesses, to pay, says, the 2018 account. The average Greek should work fifty days to pay off his obligations in direct taxes, sixty-seven days for indirect taxes and eighty-one days for insurance contributions. On the basis of the periods of governments exercising fiscal policy over the last ten years in the country, the study records a charge of about one month in the period 2009-2012 at PASOK, when the day of tax freedom from 28 May was transferred on 23 June, during the period 2012-2015 with New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR moved marginally on 26 June, while in the period 2015-2018 with SYRIZA - ANEL the day of tax freedom reached almost one month later, with the result that, as the President of the KIFM Alexandros Scouras said, the Greeks were working ninety-eight days for the state and sixty-seven days for themselves. Of course, this applies to those who are still in work or who are not in part-time employment. But let's move on to the draft law. Article 1. It would be wiser for everyone to set the date of departure of the pension and to leave the service as the date of death for all. In addition, the possibility of discontinuing the occupation of employees or not at the time of the commencement of payment of the pension is rightly provided for. Article 2. According to the explanatory statement, this regulation simplifys and accelerates the existing procedures so far. It remains to be proved in practice whether it will indeed be able to improve the situation or whether bureaucratic formalities will still prevail. In Article 3, this regulation is in a positive direction, as it is faced with a problem, for which, of course, the insured were not responsible, but with the bureaucracy of the public services. Article 4. And here, likewise, this regulation resolves a number of issues, which were of course not the responsibility of the insured, and which is why it should rather be dealt with positively. In Article 5, the fines imposed and the penalties threatened are particularly severe and should therefore be, in order to prevent undeclared work, so that the worker can be protected. However, the imposition of administrative sanctions against the employer, without previously having been called upon to provide explanations, creates legal matters in so far as it conflicts with the fundamental rights of citizens, such as the right of the previous hearing. With regard to Article 6, provision is made for the possibility of a reduction in the fine if the employer proceeds to the recruitment by a full-time contract of the undeclared worker and the conditions are specified. This provision is on the right track, since it is not only a question of punishing the employer who is illegal, but also of ensuring the rights of the worker by allowing him to continue working legally. Article 7 provides that in the event of more fines being imposed by different services at the expense of the same employer for undeclared work of the same worker on the same day, the fine notified first shall be paid. In Article 9, arrangements shall be made for the liability of a contractor and subcontractor vis-à-vis the workers and shall be provided for in the event of breach of their obligations, in accordance with Law 3996/2011, a financial fine, etc. In particular, it is laid down that there is a liability of the contraaor vis-à-vis the workers, the contractor or the subcontractor. This provision in practice is difficult to implement and, if applied, it will create more problems than it is supposed to solve. It is impossible for the contractor to have a direct picture and knowledge of the labour relations of the contractors with their employees, even when the relevant state control mechanisms are unable to carry out their duties adequately. We cannot have the requirement to be able to take up this role and to adequately control what is not able to control the State itself and the competent authorities. In Article 10, this provision seeks to address the problem of covert work, which is in many cases covered by apprenticeship or practical training contracts. It is right to provide for their obligation to make a statement to the information system "ERGANI", but the limit set, 17% or forty people, could be a little more flexible, since young people should also be facilitated, who are obliged to go through the course of apprenticeship and practical training. The major and most important thing is that the responsible control mechanisms are able to respond adequately and effectively to their control role. If this is achieved, the 17% or forty-one limit is a minor issue. With regard to Article 11, I would like to say that the provision does not deal with any more specific details, but it certainly needs to be set up immediately and adequately to ensure the health of workers during the summer season. Article 12 regulates the question of the imposition of sanctions on the employer, where it is found that it is not registered before it is changed or modified working hours, overtime or overworking. It is right to impose the specific penalties, but it is sufficient to ensure that the safeguards are put in place in order to avoid the occurrence of tabling. There are cases where it is practically difficult to register directly by the employer changes to working hours, but which may be due to exceptional or unforeseen reasons. The competent authorities should be able to distinguish this from the deliberate and unlawful omission of the employer, which aims to harm the workers' rights. Regarding Part III of the draft law, which deals with the problem, as I mentioned before, of the unaccompanied minors who were supposed to have left their countries to be saved from the wars and found refuge in Greece, where the humanitarian government of SYRIZA - ANEL welcomed them with affection and affection, it is about depositing hypocrisy, which serves to the greatest extent the anti-national pursuits of the government. A large proportion of the above-mentioned applicants are neither minors nor refugees and come from non-war countries. It is now only the minimum minority of those entering Greece who come from Syria, but who, after all, has ceased to be in war, at least in most of it. So all this is a pretext for Greece to become the Corcoporta from which poachers will enter Europe and, at the same time, for all kinds of mutual non-governmental organisations to be financed directly and with warm money, not only at the expense of the peoples of Europe, but also at the expense of the illegal immigrants themselves. With the proposed arrangements, millions of euros are wasted each year in parasitic non-governmental organisations and ribbons, which enjoy total wages, in order to play humanists. SYRIZA - ANEL Government seems to be depleting its humanism to illegal immigrants by ignoring Greek citizens, who in many cases are deprived of the privileges and benefits they are dedicated to others. If this humanism did have the minimum amount of sincerity, you would be sure by your Government that unaccompanied minor refugees would return to their home countries rather than remain in our country, so that an entire undertaking of rhetorical recruitment, benefits, allowances and black money can also be put at the expense of them. I'm going to Part IV and Article 33. Article 33 is in a positive direction, as is any regulation that helps to alleviate workers who are trying to survive in a working jungle to which your Memorandumary Policies have led us. Unfortunately, the workers and the unemployed have been converted into awkward benefits, which they rely on to cover part of their basic needs. In Article 34, the same applies to Article 33. The procedures for dealing with issues relating to registered unemployed of the OAD shall be facilitated and simplified. In Article 35, it is sufficient for this aid to be granted to Greek unemployed people who really need it and not to be channelled directly or indirectly to illegal immigrants. In Articles 36 and 37, it is not specified who these social and solidarity economic operators will be and whether they will have anything to do with NGOs and projects related to illegal immigration. It is also not clear why trade unions should use public property, whether this is in line with their purpose and subject matter, and what criteria these trade unions will choose. As far as Article 38 is concerned, this arrangement, provided that the sites concerned are actually used to regenerate and form the areas in which they are in favour of the citizens, would be positive if that were the case. Article 40 provides for the right to e-government and limited bureaucratic formalities, while employers and citizens generally gain direct access to the relevant information. In Article 41, according to the explanatory statement and the above-mentioned arrangement, the Association of Industrialists of Northern Greece is recognised as equal to the rest of the representative employers' organisations. It is a positive arrangement since it also promotes decentralisation in a specific area and upgrades the representation of industrial enterprises active in Northern Greece. But here I have a point to make. Your Government should take very seriously what the Prime Minister told the Greek Prime Minister a few days ago in Thessaloniki about the patenting of names in the products produced in Macedonia. In Article 43, as we also mentioned in the resolution of No 4430/16 on the social and solidarity economy, even if one thought that the purpose of this institution is indeed to develop the economic activities of citizens with a view to improving their production and living standards, it is clear that this is impossible to happen, since all indicators of the real economy go from bad to worse and lack any prospect of growth and recovery. True social and solidarity between the national economies can only exist for Greek citizens when national self-sufficiency is achieved in its strategic areas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. As regards Article 44, in the way the provision is formulated, it leaves open the possibility of granting the use of public immovable property to legal persons with a view to the implementation of a socially beneficial or prosperous project. It does not specify whether this definition includes non-governmental organisations and whether the public or prosperous work is considered to be both facilities and benefits to illegal immigrants or anarchists. In Article 45, the regulation solves bureaucratic obstacles that had occurred in previous years and made it difficult for our right-holders to move freely or with a discount. In Article 46, we have another arrangement giving groups of illegal immigrants at least EUR 63 000 per year, according to the report of the General Accounting Office, in the form of benefits and allowances, to the detriment of the state budget and the Greek taxpayers. Article 47 gives the government the freedom to make use of the profits of the state-owned New Year's lottery, according to which, in general and in vague control, social policies in legal persons governed by public and private law, without specifying what they are, and without specifying what social policies will be. We therefore rightly fear that this money, which was traditionally used to relieve our tested compatriots, will now end up strengthening non-governmental organisations, illegal immigrants and Roma. Article 48 introduces arrangements on the National Centre for Social Solidarity and, in the SYRIZA's friendly tactics, the members of the board of directors are increasing from seven to eleven, because the elections are approaching and we have people to suit. After five years of governing SYRIZA - ANEL the term "social solidarity" unfortunately has now been identified by the war and strengthening of government, state-owned, outgoing, Roma and illegal immigrants. Finally, I will conclude with a phrase that was said by a great teacher and philosopher: the pursuit of tyranny is to impoverish the citizens, to keep the guard of the regime on the one hand and, on the other hand, to ensure that there is no free time for thought, for a different reaction. Unfortunately, however, for you where you are going, you are being chased, and this is the result of a decision you have recently made on the granting of the name. But think about it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u13	Please hang up, because I'm not leaving you any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u14	But think how people will react if they really go hungry with the measures you have imposed over the past few years and what has happened. Most of you won't be in the next House, so at least make sure you vote, leaving something right for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of twenty students and students and five teachers from schools in the People's Republic of China. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, as all the parties' representatives are here at the moment - apart from the Democratic Alliance, but it does not matter, we will be informed - that we have made a calculation of both forty-two speakers who have been signed, we can in ten hours and with relative comfort to finish. This means that even with a few minutes of the rapporteurs and, possibly, the Minister, we can now between 20.30' and 21.30' to conclude the debate on the bill. If we agree, first of all we take this decision and if something happens, so that tomorrow morning it will be free to prepare yourself better for the 'CLISTEN' which will begin at 15.00 a.m. As far as I can see, we all agree. Continue with Mr Christos Katsotis, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The regulations of the bill entitled "Securities and pension arrangements - Treatment of undeclared work - Strengthening the protection of workers - Commission of unaccompanied minors and other provisions" would be expected to give answers. However, it does not respond to the demands of workers and pensioners to cover losses, to restore employment and insurance rights. It does not respond to the labor hell that the business groups, the European Union and the governments have created. SYRIZA's rapporteur seems to live in the world of illusion. This was seen through his position. The normality that the government is talking about is as much as the competitiveness of the economy and the recovery of profitability. This is where the government meets with the other parties, in order to achieve the strategic objective, which is common: the capitalist recovery. New Democracy and PASOK are showing themselves today with sensitivity to the problems of workers, while the measures they have taken have created the working jungle that SYRIZA continued, doing as we have said the dirty work. Regularity means abolishing the Memorandum Laws, substantial protection of the unemployed, cover for losses in wages and pensions, addressing the dangerous health situation, education, welfare, protection of obligated households. The Government has refused to bring forward the legislative proposals and has rejected others tabled by the JRC, which respond to the above acute problems of workers and the people. You rejected the proposal for a law on the effective protection of the unemployed and their families, and you continue to implement employment programmes with hundreds of millions of euros that enhance the profitability of business groups and keep the unemployment benefit at EUR 360 with a few months' duration and such conditions as are ultimately subsidised only 10% of the unemployed. You rejected the proposal for a law on relief measures for highly indebted people's families and implement your policy with auctioning and seizures and first homes, even for 500 euros in the public sector. You rejected the proposal for a law to restore the minimum wage to EUR 751, the third and fourteenth pensions, and you continue to implement the Brutsi Act, with commitment to the memorandum era, as you call it, as well as the law - looting, the Katrugalos Law, constantly singing the pensions of job partisans. You rejected the proposal for a law of five hundred and thirty secondary and primary workers' organisations, tabled by the JRC for the reintroduction of collective agreements. You have rejected a number of amendments that we have tabled, such as for widows' pensions and others, which satisfy serious issues for workers and the people, because they, as you say, undermine the recovery objective. The JRC also tabled four amendments to this bill concerning the abolition of the pension adjustment from 1-1-2019, the regulations of L.4387/2016 which provide for the re-budget of pensions and the reduction of the personal difference. By our proposal, the provisions paid or payable against 12-5-2016, the date of entry into force of Law No.4387/2016, the main pensions other than the pensions of the OGA, which were granted under previous provisions of Law No.4387/2016, continue to be paid to the amount established at that time and are still subject to the legal regime in force until that date, until any loss of the right concerned. The provisions of Article 14 of Law No.4387/2016, as well as the provisions of Article 33 of the same law, as they currently apply, are repealed and any other provisions otherwise. We call on you to accept this amendment, which responds to the climate you are trying to create at this time, a climate of anticipation for developments after August, with the end of the programme, the memorandum era, as you call it. You claim that you will no longer be able to follow your policy without the bans of institutions, without the aspiring commission. You play with words. The Commission is now calling it strict monitoring. You are blocking your agreement to implement all measures and to continue restructuring and reform that will enhance the competitiveness of business groups. You are advocating the possibility of not reducing the personal difference for pensioners. You are attempting to create a climate of anticipation and tolerance for pensioners, who have been completely overthrown by the constant reductions in their pensions. So here's Rhodes! Do accept our amendment. Otherwise pensioners will not stop their fair fights against your unfair policy. They'll return you to the love you've shown them. The Government shall withdraw another pension from the new pensioner of the IKA after it has been provided for the beginning of payment the following month from the day of the deposit, as was the case until now. The argument of the single regulation for all funds as an ECA or that, after the pensioner's death, pension will be awarded by the end of the month, beyond a macabre is not worth a reply. This regulation needs to be changed and the start of pension payments from the date of deposit, as in IKA up to now, should apply to all funds. Do not cut a day by the pensioner. The draft law introduces the right of non-continuation of professional activity for the start of the pension. The government is moving towards active ageing, which the European Union shows, increasing age limits, further reducing insurance costs, since those who continue to work - employees or freelance professionals - will receive 40% of the pension. On the basis of these regulations, we are once again putting the issue of the pension award for those with more than EUR 20,000 in debt to the OAU and more than EUR 4,000 in debt to the OGA. It is a serious problem that has been exacerbated, and the government has so far not given an answer. It is a large number of those belonging to this category. For widow's pensions we have also tabled an amendment to abolish Article 12 of the Katrugalos Act and reintroduce the arrangements in place before that law. For Article 4, we asked for the regulation to be extended, except for school guards, and in other cases for workers who offered services to municipalities and legal persons, work with a service contract, directly awarded by Law 3463/2006 and who were not insured under the responsibility of the State and as the Municipality of Patras has requested by deletion of fines and surcharges, whether or not in legal proceedings and decisions. The social security contributions to be charged to the State budget, when these sums were not paid to the municipalities and, of course, the sub-financing which is still in progress. We have tabled an amendment and we call on the government to accept it. In Part II, entitled "Working Provisions" and Articles 5 to 13, you refer to arrangements, without touching the heart of the problem, which is the abolition of fixed daily working time, the generalization of flexibility. The government, which says it represents the progress towards the maintenance represented by the New Democracy, maintained its entire anti-legislative framework and further legislated the abolition of the Sunday holiday, established the collective redundancies, gave a strong blow to the right of strike by the regulations that put greater obstacles to 'legal' - in introductory terms - to its implementation. These are measures to protect capital gains. The daily tire-working hours were tied up by employers by the acquisition of fixed daily working hours to reduce working hours by increasing the exploitation of workers. This is the greatest roll-over that can't be touched. It is highly valued by business groups to increase the goodwill of employees. In 1886 we had the conquest of the eighth. In 2018 we have 12 hours and put on drivers - Austria, the European Union - with a vote of the New Democracy and the Golden Dawn. Steady-day work, with a constant working time of thirty-five hours, seven hours, five hours, with collective labour agreements compulsory for all, with the effect of the more favourable regulation, is those which strengthen the protection of workers and improve their position, but are rejected by the capital, the parties which serve it and, of course, the government today. You are hypocritical when you say that you are in favour of collective bargaining, compulsoryity and expansion. If not, you only have to provide that for each worker in an undertaking, regardless of whether he is borrowed, contracted or whatever, the corresponding collective agreement of the industry or the undertaking is to be applied. But it's something you refuse to do. The question of contractors, however much responsibility has been transferred to the company, but also to subcontractors, does not address the question of lowering the price of the labour force of further overthrows of labour relations. The proposal for a law of the organisations submitted by the JRC to restore the minimum wage to EUR 751, collective agreements, compulsoryity, expansion, the power of more favourable regulation for all, whether or not they are members of organisations, can build walls on undeclared and implied work, on contractors, on supposedly practical exercise and on any other application of business groups to workers. The new architecture for which the Minister for Labour is speaking about undeclared work means that the three months of insurance will have a cost to the employer of EUR 692 and will, of course, save the 3,000 euros. The employee and employer's contributions are EUR 264 per month, 20% of the employees and 25% for the employer. So this is the offer you make to the employer and you leave open the possibility of increasing undeclared work over the next period, because it will cost far less than the fine that exists today. The rights of contract workers can be guaranteed by abolishing the slave labour offices of the various contractors. As long as the contractor is involved, it will pave the way for contractor companies, branches of business groups or monkey contractors to be set up to recruit business groups with smuggled wages and rights to increase their profits. As far as apprenticeship is concerned, the question of the hard exploitation of pupils for alleged practice is not dealt with by an obligation to declare this in the ERGAN system. None of the students, for example in tourism, do any practice. All meet the needs of the hotel owners with endless working hours, with unacceptable conditions of residence and nutrition for students, in containers, in tents, in minor undergrounds. That's where they live. The hell that young people and young people live in their period of practice is not described and treated by recording. Legislation is needed to deal with the thermal stress of workers and to identify their specific protection measures. But these measures must be mandatory. To correspond to the needs of effective prevention and protection of the health and safety of workers and to ensure their implementation by the competent state bodies. The undersubmitment of state control mechanisms, the elasticisation of the conditions of protection of workers, the conditions for intensification of work and of employers' terrorism will make the arrangements an empty letter. As far as sanctions for overworking are concerned, we note that as long as the elastic daily working time is maintained, the situation will worsen, working time will decline, despite regulations and fines. As regards Part III of the bill on the commission of unaccompanied minors, capitalist barbarism, interventions and imperialist war is reflected in the vertical increase in the number of unaccompanied minors and migrants in our country, as well as in the other countries of the European Union. The government gives land and water to NATO, the United States and the European Union for these interventions and the blood flow of the people. They're co-responsible for death and refugee. We denounce the reactionary decisions of the last European Union summit on immigration, as well as the Greek Government, which voted on them all with the creation of new hot spots of the Moria type and new Amygdaleza detention centres. The Prime Minister signed a bilateral agreement with Germany to take back Greece by concise procedures as refugees and migrants left Greece and were found in Germany and will include unaccompanied minors. We believe that there is a need for special regulation. However, care for the minor, that is, the commission, is privatized, employed and entrusted to a private person who will in fact take up a fascist job. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We consider this regulation to be unacceptable and dangerous. The protection of unaccompanied minors, like other abandoned and unprotected children, cannot be achieved by the criterion of the livelihood of the professional. It cannot be the responsibility of a person, even if he has the best intentions. The risks of exploiting the minor refugee are multiplying. They're more vulnerable to various circuits. And since time is running out, we have the position of the JRC on this matter. We'll testify to them in the Minutes. We have also told them these days on the committees. We say that we need to develop adequate state infrastructure with appropriate staff at the points of entry and transit of refugees flows, so that unaccompanied minors can be identified in time and that they can be protected immediately. Development and staffing with adequate staff of state services handling asylum and family reunification issues. For children who are proven to have no family, provide for their immediate placement in a foster family or adoption. For the remaining unaccompanied children, which is the majority for which a commissioner should be appointed, the full responsibility for having a state body, with the establishment of state officials and Commissioners, with adequate infrastructure development and with their full staff. No involvement by NGOs and entrepreneurs in the sensitive issue of child protection and unaccompanied minors. Create sufficient number of state hosting structures in which minors are integrated according to their gender and age. In conclusion, Mr President, we would like to say that as far as the properties included in Articles 36, 37 and 44 are concerned we are voting 'at present', because in general we have no objection to being able to exploit real estate in the context of state institutions for social people's needs. However, the entities that may be transferred to them - to be transferred - are included, with the exception of legal persons governed by public law, municipalities and regions and private entities of a non-profit-making nature, i.e. the disguised form of the private sector in the social services sector. For Article 41, on the establishment as a social partner of the Industrial Association of Northern Greece, we disagree. We shall vote 'on the one hand', not because we have a preference for employers' organizations, but we note that with this article and with the intention that you have set out for the representativeness of collective agreements, it will also be used to block its signature and not even implement the national collective agreement laying down the minimum conditions for remuneration and work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Katsotis, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u18	I'm done. Thank you, Mr President. The other things we have not had time to do will be developed in the second instance with the ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u19	We proceed with the special speaker from the Independent Greeks, Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. It has been nearly three and a half years since January 2015. It is an incredible roadway that this government has been living for three and a half years. In fact, I believe that it is an unprecedented journey from the first to the last minute. These are some key points of this roadside which I believe have set too many things for the future of this place. I want some of them to touch them. Today's bill, like the one that follows on to KLITHHENE, is perhaps the last of this parliamentary term, which ends in about a week before we enter the summer sections. So before we enter the bill, and specialize, I think it's worth it to remember that history. I want to start with the positive ones. Recently, those who are well-meaning will accept that 21 June was a historic date, which the country took a deep breath and did no favour to it. I do not want to recall the positive aspects of this story again. It is, however, very important to see concrete elements. Two, first of all, from the companies that judge us at times - we did not love them, we are a small country and we are obliged to respect the rules of the game - the 'STANDARD & POOR'S' and the 'DBRS' upgraded the country's economy. Some of the atrocious banks of the world, "MORGAN STANLEY", "HSBC", have coveted biconvexes for the Greek economy, "BLOOMBERG", "FINANCIAL TIMES", "WALL STREET JOURNAL", the sanctuary of the capitalist system. We didn't love each other again, but it's sure they don't do us favors. Of course, the confessions of some who considered us - please excuse me - almost lepers, i.e. isolated from all over the world in the early stages that we need to remember, when this famous referendum took place, when some people try to degrade it where all municipal companies, I imagine, well, one or other were giving the difference and the units were around 62, i.e. 22 units out. They are the same companies that today give 14-15 points of difference. They're exactly the same. I don't want to mention them now. And the reality bothers them. This course was unbelievable. We saw a Shoeble literally giving us 50 billion and throwing us in the trash. They all wanted to get rid of us, a government that felt very alone, completely alone. Some people here in the country meanwhile had a real estate perception and they saw us as an interrogator. And that's how they see us, life-long owners of the state, the Parliament, the Chair. So it's been three and a half years since, and the scene has changed. And it has changed dramatically. The country soon - nobody triumphed for what happened on 21 June - is entering a period of encouragement for the economy and for the future of this country. We all know that ENPIA will be corrected, and VAT will be adjusted, and collective bargaining will come back and the minimum wage will be raised and pensions - I want to say more - and duty-free will probably be under negotiation, as will the big surpluses. And the same people who were at risk every day and had invested almost in reducing pensions and tax relief reacted like spoiled children who took their expensive gifts when Moscovisi in this Chamber in the most resounding way he said that there are no steel negotiations and that everything is in line with the course of the economy. And then they reminded me of some old ministers who, when they were taking gold or silver, an athlete stacked next to him to take a picture and bring amendments. They are the same people who were in danger ten days ago and had invested that everything is falling apart, pensioners, etc. Five-six channels that literally do no more work than jeopardize from morning to night and distort reality. Intimidated by pensioners who have been reduced eleven times, no pensions, no one in this government, except the NSA which had already been launched and loaded and well charged to us. I have heard, in fact, the low-tons, as a general rule, Mr Hatzidakis, talking about twenty-one reductions. I would ask him very well to tell me once - one of these reductions when they took place. Explain them to us. All this and today we come in the last days of Pompeii. There's a bill that no one said he'd put order - for God's sake - in insurance, in how the workers deal with their jobs. And one wonders what really prevented the previous ones. Objection throughout this story is when I see the Ambassador of the United States to say the best words about the Greek economy, McCrone, all the leaders, Juncker, everyone. Every day's still tough. Of course, the poverty line could be 35% to 40% three years ago. Today it's around 20 %, but a large part of the world is suffering and we know it. We move in the world and we know very well what's going on. Wonders, no don't. I don't want to remind you what happened here. I see some time a tough opposition line from people who should be more careful. I won't have one, I have infinite examples. Because I happen to be in the Committee on Health where we deal with Henry Dunan, "NOVARTIS", CERN I have experienced this experience and no one can solve it from me. I would like to see any member of the Officerial Response or the Elassian Response answering a question. I have two legislative regulations that have been in force for twenty-five years. When you have a health problem about the population of your society, you don't pay to show it, it becomes free throughout the planet. Why did you give money to bands, journalists, newspapers themselves? The word 'publishing' has gone for a walk. They cry every day, they shout, they get ugly, they risk overweight. But is no one answering us why these people were paying? Why did he get that channel a million? Why would that reporter take money on that site? No one's answering us. And why didn't you give half the euro after 2015? It is a tangible proof of another governance in this misery called communication. Not half of the euro was given, not half of the euro. Let the Greek citizen hear them. Small channels that rattle daily with journalists headed. In front of this necklace, in this terrible reality, three and a half years old, we live in it every day and live it even today. How bad is it that we have seen for the first time many years - and I have lived this on a personal level - in seventy-three public hospitals, feeding, keeping and cleaning up with a special law that we have made to save money from these hospitals? One of these is the "Evangelism", which saves one million a year from the contracts of two hundred eighty-workers and throws out the middlemen. Those who didn't just threaten Constantina Kuneva attacked her ten years ago. Have we forgotten? He's a SYRIZA MEP right now. What's the problem with this bill I have in front of me? I also saw today and I was so surprised to hear Mr Mitarakis mentioning Article 9. I was surprised to hear that at least the pretexts would be kept. They don't keep them. What does Article 9 say? "It mobilizes solidarity and full responsibility for the contraaor, contractor and subcontractor." There wasn't that thing. What's the law? 'As opposed to workers carrying out the project referred to, thereby extending the scope of the protection of workers' rights'. Why this rabies of the U.S., why the rabies of the L.A.? What's fair? A contractor, a subcontractor, has he or does he not have responsibility for the worker doing his job? What if he gets an accident if he doesn't get paid? Why are you being exposed? I'm telling Mr. Metarakis. Article 9. It comes with a lot of pride - I will say it again for once - the Director of the Employment Sector of the BSE labour market. Remove it. Virtual contractors. There's a legal gap here that they want to be crazy and the contractors and the subcontractors. "Credited staff" for many decades ago. Just when you hear it, it doesn't hurt you somewhere. You say, "Cashed staff," what is this thing? In fact, he mentioned an example of the President of the Banking Association, how good this is for employers not to belong to a group of borrowed personnel and not to be covered by any collective agreement, which is considered anachronistic by too many of you, to be turned very easily into parttime work, to be easily made redundant in worse working conditions. In fact, she mentioned the example of a working person who made me a terrible impression, consistent with her work in a bank in Thessaloniki, which was fired, and had passed by six different contractors, without a single day missing from the bank. It was a borrowed staff. What's that? Is he a middle-aged worker or not? And what's he doing? Promote growth? Anyone who wants to answer that. The worst of all is the two preconditions for these people. There was no equal remuneration for borrowed staff with regular staff and while legislation, n.4052, says there is an obligation to recruit the employee from the indirect employer after thirty-six days, none of this. In cleanliness, where the contractor and the subcontractor took the lead, where Constantina Kuneva suffered, to remember these things, because some did not play the crowns - letters of their psychological health, they played their biological ones as well. So to remember them. They didn't know who they had to do with. Other from here, other than there, etc. I want to say this here. We are talking about a regime in which parasitic entrepreneurship, not healthy - because I am in favour of healthy entrepreneurship - gave and took for too many years. I tell you one example that I experienced personally, where, as a president in a hospital, I experienced this experience. It was the first time I had experience with Kuneva who had in her hands a collective agreement that said about a sum that workers should get, 700 euros. What did the contractor do? He was collecting waffles, putting them in and signing for 400 euros, which is reduced by collective work, giving them half. Whether or not the hospital was cleaned, let it go. And if anyone dared to talk, he would mess with the president that he was spending the public. He said: 'While I with 400 euros clean, the collective agreement does not.' Is it a middle-aged worker or not? I didn't say everything was being corrected. As is the case with the "KLITHENH" bill, a bill actually sets order and that in too many things. I say, however, that the country must and must become normal. I'm not talking about revolutions, nobody triumphed in here. I want to believe, however, that something good starts, and as much as some continue to jeopardise, vague and invoke things that are not there, I believe that sooner or later, the country will enter into normality and some who dreamed that this government will be parentheses, these people who have fought for three and a half years, I believe they will be disproved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Before giving the floor to the last two special speakers, Mr Mavrotas from Potami and Mr Fokas from the Centroon Union, will be speaking for five minutes, to present the last ministerial amendment that has not been incorporated into the bill, so that you will be aware of it from now on and of the speakers and colleagues who will be speaking. Mrs Papanatsiou, you have the floor for five minutes from your position. It is the amendment with a general number of 1663 and a special number of 134.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment has three articles. In the first article, arrangements are made for the movement of Armed Forces and Security Bodies. The Presidential Decree, which should have been adopted up to 30-6, was not possible. We are asking until the end of December for the adoption of this year, 2018, in order to issue the respective Presidential Decree. The proposed provision also increases the limit of the day-to-day movements of graduated police officers to meet immediate needs in their practical training. The second paragraph of the first Article, by means of the proposed provision, extends until 1-6-2019 the period for the adoption of Ministerial Decisions determining the remuneration of staff of special categories referred to in Article 22 of L.4354/2015. These are numerous categories of staff, such as elected staff, governing bodies of legal persons governed by public law, private law, ECHO, etc. The second article is the deadline for issuing clearing orders for the payments of the Public Investment Programme. They are issued, as we all know, until 31 March of each year, for the 2017 programme. As the procedure could not be completed, one month was extended. That is to say, 25 May 2018 as a deadline for both the issue of the above orders and for carrying out the corresponding accounting records for the occurrence of all payments of the Public Investment Programme made during the financial year 2017 in public accountancy. The third article, which I consider to be the most important of the amendment, is the concession of the coastal front of Patras to the Municipality of Patras and to the people of Patras after the declassification of the terrestrial port of this port. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Also in this article with the amendment we make in 2971/2001 we have a new article in 18A. ’ As promised, we enable the municipality to legalise all the non-legal structures made by the OLAF in the terrestrial port area. So a period of five years is given to be able to legitimise all existing facilities, to suspend administrative measures and criminal prosecutions, but we also have the limitation of the rights of the public. Also, criminal trials that had started are being postponed. If the projects are not finally legalised, all the measures that had been suspended shall be taken. In the event that the projects are legalised, any measures adopted shall cease to apply. Also, there is no provision for any amount of money to be paid for the legalisation by the Municipality of Patras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u23	The special speaker from the river Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are talking today about a bill by the Ministry of Labour, which, although not a great deal, is, in fact, a bill. It includes many dispersed parts of somewhat wider regulations and many micro-regulations. It has micro-regions on pensions and insurance to the FBI. It has work provisions to deal with undeclared work and to strengthen the protection of workers. There is a specific chapter on the comitology of unaccompanied minors and several articles on the functioning and role of the OAED are included. When we talk about insurance regulations, however, we must bear in mind that one of the main problems of the country and, above all, the citizens who produce and operate under very difficult conditions is still and is not the law of Katrugalos, a tax law that we have baptised him 'insurance'. The law that has exterminated the citizens of the Union. On the basis of the contributions made by this law, the surplus of EVA is created in order for the government to have a subsidy policy, which is undeveloping and has a look only at the next polls and not in the next generations, as it should. And the whole debate on the reduction or not of pensions from 1-1-2019 is essentially a fraud involving all parties. Ladies and gentlemen, with 1.3 employees for each pensioner, our insurance system is a mathematical dead end. If you really want to do something for pensioners, you attract investment in market sectors, increase production, create jobs to pay pensions as well. The role of the State is not to demonise investment and entrepreneurship, but to control competition rules and to ensure equal conditions. This also applies to the work of this bill. I shall begin with Article 3 for the reasonable doubt. I have also expressed my question to the committees on what is going to happen with those who have poorly paid double contributions. The Minister replied to me that they were subject to another provision and another procedure. The last subparagraph of paragraph 1, which states, however, that: ‘It has been paid out of the amounts insured against these debts which are not repaid and are not being sought’, which may give rise to a problem for those claiming them. Let us go to the provisions for undeclared work. Undeclared work ten - twenty years ago may have led to shamefulness. Today, with the excellent insurance contributions, it tends to have as an incentive to survival for both entrepreneurs and workers. High contributions, high taxation, lack of liquidity in the market, non-access to bank lending has brought small and medium-sized enterprises to a dead end. That is why we believe - and I told the committees too - that the fine of EUR 10 500 should not be stable, but should be commensurate with the size of the company, for example on the basis of the turnover of last year, so that small and medium-sized enterprises are not exterminated. It can't be the same, 10,500 euros, both in a multinational and a grocery store. And if a point system is in place so that relapse is severely punished and controls are more targeted at employers' infringing behaviours - the so-called target testing, where in the risk analysis risk analysis those who have a history of infringing behaviours go up to control priority. The problem of undeclared work is not solved by high fines, but by the conviction that the grid of controls is dense. For the discount by recruitment in Article 10, we consider it to be a measure that moves in the positive direction. For Article 9, for the co-responsibility of a contractor and subcontractor, we have several reservations as to the feasibility and applicability of the measure. It concerns, in particular, so-called ‘borrowing’ workers and since the state knows that this is a specific area of potential default with intermediaries, parasitic entrepreneurship, as mentioned above, it should focus its attention there in order to comply with legislation. And if there are subcontractors who prove to be unsuccessful, let us create a black list with them so that the contracting parties know who they have to do with. As it is formulated in the bill, I feel that the imported provision is an attempt to replace the state control mechanism, i.e. instead of the State control of the contractor - as the contractor should - will control it. And also - we told the committees - why the public should be excluded as a contracting authority, that is, public procurement should be excluded? We believe that this creates conditions of unfair competition when public and private enterprises are active in the same market. It is not the public child of a higher god, so that it will apply differently to it than to private business. For the provisions on apprenticeship, the clarifications made by Mr Helios were given to the committee and I thank him very much. As regards the provisions of Part III, which are the institutional framework for the commission of unaccompanied minors, we consider them positive. On several points, however, there is ambiguity, such as in the qualifications of professional committees or in the standards of procedures for assessing and determining the best interests of the unaccompanied minor. Also, many key data on the success of the whole project will be determined by subsequent ministerial and joint ministerial decisions, which are without deadlines for their adoption. In the other provisions, there are positive provisions such as extending the term 'insolvent employer' to provide the existing employee benefit from the OAED by means of an account for the protection of workers from the insolvency of the employer. It is also positive to improve the conditions for maintaining the unemployment card and the unemployment benefit for those involved in education and training programmes. For Articles 36, 37 and 44 on property concessions by OAED and other supervised bodies, we have expressed our concerns in committee, in particular as to the ambiguity of the provisions and the lack of publicity and transparency. As the relevant ministers have explained to us, there is a large building stock that wastes and needs a more flexible institutional regime to exploit itself for the benefit of society. We agree with that and we have no objection, provided that it is transparent and not by private means. Mrs Ahtsoglou told us yesterday that these concessions are already made through open procedures, with an invitation to show interest, open competitions. Transparency is therefore also a matter for us, but we believe that it should be described not only with the words of the Minister, but also with the law, so that we have mutually advantageous solutions and property to gain life and the public to make use of its property for the benefit of society. For Article 41 where the Association of Northern Greece Industries is recognised as an equal social partner I expressed at our previous questions. These questions were solved yesterday by the Prime Minister's speech at the General Assembly of the SBBE in "HYATT" in Thessaloniki. This regulation obviously forms part of a strategy which the Government adopts with the social partners. And should it be applied to political and party opponents, but to the social partners? Suddenly we heard the Prime Minister yesterday, BSE became the bad guy. But I remember at the general meeting of the BSE 29th May of 2018, about a month ago, there were many colleagues from SYRIZA there, the Prime Minister saying in his speech to BSE: "I asked all of us to take part in a difficult and daily struggle. Thanks to the joint effort we have not only met but managed to change the country's image decisively. First plural. And he closed, - I heard him with my ears: 'Thank you and wish you good work good decisions and good continuity in your fruitful efforts'. And I remember the President of BSE, Mr Fessa, praised Mr Tsipras for congratulating him for leaving the memoranda in August of something that he believed in the Prime Minister himself. Yesterday, then, the fertile effort of BSE became a conspiracy. I read from the Prime Minister's speech to the members of the SBV yesterday: "And you have proved that behind your public positions there are no other motives behind you. Unfortunately, it is not always the case with the leadership of BSE, which is extremely doubtful what production powers it represents, it is certain that its motives are purely political." And he goes further: "And take an example from your standpoint, a attitude of responsibility, accompanied by a substantial contribution to the recovery of the country and not a attitude that serves exclusively the plans of the oligarchy, wealth and a political and economic elite, but which bears deep responsibility for the bankruptcy, for the sinking of the economy into the recession and the Greek society in desperation." That's what the Prime Minister said yesterday and got me confused. What's the matter? Is BSE a fruitful effort, as it said on 29 May 2018 or a government undermining, as he said yesterday? Of course we do not all agree with BSE, but how can the Prime Minister turn 180 degrees in a month? As a modern political Janus, with two faces who say with amazing ease the opposite things? 'The first time is?' will you ask me? And you will remember nostalgic in July 2015! Anyway, the fact is that, as was shown yesterday by the speech of the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, the logic of our "ours" and "yours" in relation to associations and chambers seems to be the incentive of this legislative provision, regardless of whether the Association of Industries of Northern Greece actually represents an important and dynamic part of the Greek industry. With regard to Article 48 for the National Centre for Social Solidarity, we have not been convinced that there is a need to increase the members of the Management Board from seven to eleven. It is a constant practice for you to catch up with the members of the various administrative boards, which does not agree with us. Yesterday - last night - we tabled an amendment to leave for lack of blood donation for private workers, namely, to be entitled to one day leave, on blood donation day, twice a year, with a warning to the employer and after consultation. This is something which is only provided for in certain business contracts and not universally in the national collective labour agreement. We believe that this will significantly strengthen the voluntary blood movement, as there are no minor obstacles to it and, at the same time, workers in the private sector will have similar - to some extent - treatment with workers in the public sector. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the country is not in need of chicken fighting. He needs jobs. Lending is over and jobs are now being created if there is production and extroversion. Production and extroversion require investment in market sectors, whether for exports or for substitution of imports. The main brake on attracting investment is neither bureaucracy nor overtaxation nor the slow administration of justice. The main brake is the uncertainty that emits our political system which, through a climate of polarization and populism, leaves no room for good reason, leaves no room for perception and the belief that the exit from the memoranda needs even to the minimum, to take off the party shirt and wear the national one, to leave the paths of the past and to see the challenges of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u25	And we arrive at the last special speaker from the Central Association, Mr. Aristides Fokas. Here, Mr. Fokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Another bill that offers nothing to entrepreneurship and growth. Another bill that will not offer a single fraction of GDP growth. Another bill that comes to complete the Katrugalou law, passed two years ago. Part I, concerning insurance provisions, shows that the Katrugalou law, passed two years ago, has many ambiguities, to which we are even today called upon to give solutions. Two years later, you haven't been able to complete the Operational Framework of the EKA. In Article 1, we see the right arrangements to enable pensioners, potential pensioners, who have the time to receive their pensions, to continue to practice their profession by offering GDP, by offering the economy. The big mistake is you're cutting off their pension. It is not possible for a free professional, for example, who has been working for forty years, has offered the insurance system for forty years, has been deprived of him and his family money to contribute to the TEBE, to the OAU, to the EFCA, today it is time to get his pension, to give him only 40% and he feels like a fool who will declare it and continue to practice his profession. It makes very sense that this pensioner continues to work black and takes his entire pension until you retire, of course, between 1-1-2019 and 18%. In Article 4 we see that school guards, under regulations introduced, are entitled to a judicial decision and are not counted on interest and increments. There is a huge problem in business in Greece and it is no longer one of the four hundred thousand free professionals, who are still in debt at the moment in their fund and cannot be informed. We're going back to the 2016 ID. There the Prime Minister had promised - he had made a sole promise! - that the debts of the free professionals to their fund will be frozen, and that debt will go in the future, when it comes time for the insured to get his pension. Then and only then, if he has succeeded in giving something for this debt, he will be counted on his pension. If he doesn't, he'll get what he thinks is and nothing more. What have you done these two years? Nothing! These professionals continue to be out of the system, weigh, not even have the second chance to attempt, because to open up a new business, they need insurance and tax information that they are unable to get. Imagine these four hundred thousand free professionals re-enter the system, start offering tax and insurance contributions. Unemployment will be drastically reduced and our GDP will be increased. We are therefore asking for the following: The decriminalisation of debts to the OAU, as the relevant law of 1967, Article 1, refers to employers' contributions and not to self-employed contributions. Delete the debt of the medical care of all professionals who did not have medical care all these years of the crisis, from 2010 to 2016, and continue to settle these amounts today. Cancellation of all confiscation and auction procedures of mobile and immovable property by the CRL. The freezing of the real debt and deletion of all interest and surcharges, as promised by the Prime Minister. It is very important to increase the amount of debt that can be withheld from the pension of the debtor. Of the EUR 20,000 that is today at EUR 50,000 and, of course, interest and surcharges should be deducted. It is very important, because someone who owes more than EUR 20,000 to his fund will have to pay the higher amount today than 20,000. This is extremely difficult. We ask for the limit to go to 50,000 and for all interest to be deleted. Also compulsory publication of the movement and investment of the fund's reserves. As stated by the Ministry, the ECA is already creating surpluses. We want to know where the insured's money goes. In the second part of the bill, which refers to labour provisions, the government remains in the big promises and statements. It changes the way fines are imposed for undeclared work. The fine remains at EUR 10,500, but a discount is paid if the employer proceeds after recruiting the employee. If the intake is with a three-month contract, then the discount is 33%. If it proceeds to recruitment with a six-month contract, then the discount is 53%. And if the contract is 12 months, then the discount is 71%. That's not gonna offer anything. The bad businessman will take the risk, and if they catch him, then he will proceed to an intake. If the worker goes and denounces his employer to the Labour Inspectorate that he is uninsured, then the only thing is that the employer will proceed to a contract and then fire him and take another to his place. This article will not work. It is not a solution to reduce pensions, nor to increase insurance contributions. It is impossible for an undertaking today to survive when the insurance contributions for a simple worker with EUR 700 and 750 are up to EUR 350. And it is impossible when in neighbouring countries - Skopje, Albania, Bulgaria - insurance contributions are 50 euros per month. We therefore call for the reduction of insurance contributions to be resolved. Article 9 concerns employers' responsibility towards contractors. And the setting starts to protect the workers. How will a businessman, who has ordered a service, a job, be able to control what will the contractor do with his employee? In Article 10, in addition to the obligation of the employer to have up to 17% of his or her total staff for practical training, the 40-person limit is laid down. Because, we have seen great hotel units all over Greece, not getting to them for practical exercise and coming from Bulgaria, from Romania, children and working for ten euros a day under terrible conditions and thus depriving them of jobs from Greeks. Will this also apply to the banks? In the third part there are twenty articles on unaccompanied minors coming to our country. Today we have about three and a half thousand unaccompanied children. And about a thousand places of hospitality have been created. Why are seven hundred children still homeless? Where are they? What have you done to protect them? Have they fallen victim to slave traders, masturbators, and now you create new costs without even having a plan on how to combat these circuits? Article 41 refers to the fact that the Industrial Association of Northern Greece will participate as a social partner in all the boards of directors, collective bodies and representatives of our country in Greece and abroad. Yesterday the Prime Minister was found in Thessaloniki in a hotel just 1.5 km from the airport. The road was full of roadblocks, thongs, and there was Trails everywhere. For what? Because the Prime Minister went to the Industrial Association of Northern Greece. And he went to tell us what? [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] He told us that the Greek Industrial Association and the New Democracy want and insist that pensions be cut. That's what he said. He did not say that the SYRIZA - ANEL government voted in the Memorandum of Reduction in Pensions from 1-1-2019 and that a month ago he reinstated a reduction in pensions from 1-1-2019. He told us that BSE and New Democracy want pensions to be cut. What else did the Prime Minister tell us? He told us that the Director of Central Macedonia is wrongly fighting for our Macedonia. That's what he told us. He said nothing about Macedonian language, Macedonian citizenship. He's a pain in fighting for our Macedonia. He didn't tell us anything about the business. I heard all the talk and didn't mention anything about the business. He did not mention anything in front of the NSRF entrepreneurs who are not working. Of all the NSRFs from 1-1 to 2015 until today, which this government has run, the businessman has not taken a single euro. Those who take money are from previous NSRFs. The development law has been in operation for two years. Thousands of businesses have come into development law. At the moment, those who have been approved and are making progress on their investment are not more than a hundred. He did not say anything about the extrajudicial compromise, which really does not work. Only twenty businesses have so far succeeded in completing the process! He hasn't told us anything about overtaxation. He has told us nothing about how a business can win, which is extremely difficult in our day. It is not possible for all entrepreneurs to have 29% and 27% tax through the ECA. That's tax too. There cannot be a duty of solidarity even today. It is not possible for our dividends to be retaxed after they have been taxed once. Article 36: The Minister can share buildings from which he wants in any social undertaking he wants without checking whether there is or is not in return? Article 47: We used to know where the revenues from the New Year's lottery were going. Today - at least Christmas - we will know - those who buy a new year's lottery - where will the profits go? Article 42, on 26 December, will now be an official holiday. Why? To be extra chargeable to businessmen? In closing, I ask: What have you done for freelance professionals? All the bills provide for public spending, recruitment of employees. What have you done for the business in Greece? The answer - I imagine - is easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr. Psychogios, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill follows on from other important initiatives by the Ministry of Labour, in order to further defend labour rights and legitimate conditions in the labour market. Let us not forget that the battle we are fighting for work is, as the Minister responsible has said, a divisive division, a horizontal line with the New Democracy. Let us not forget, too, that the Civic Opposition in this area also sees profits and damage while we see the interests of workers and human needs. That is why your party is probably also drafted with the Austrian Chancellor Kurts, who introduced by law at 12 o'clock, returning us to the Middle Ages, and considering - as your Chief - that has been past eight o'clock, an eight o'clock that was conquered with struggles and blood. And we could join the view that it is outdated, but in favour of the eighth or eighth, as modern needs and technology impose. These policies, therefore, which broaden inequalities - something that is legal to you - and they avenge the man and his rights, are becoming even more acute and cruel when it comes to the most vulnerable groups, such as refugees and immigrants. So at a time when the most xenophobic and conservative partnerships tend to prevail in many countries of Europe, Greece, namely this government, chooses the path of solidarity, humanity and integration. This is also demonstrated by this bill, as one of its main parties concerns the comitology of unaccompanied minors. The provisions of Part Three introduce an integrated legal framework for the commission of unaccompanied applicants and follow up the recent law of the Ministry of Migration Policy, Law 4540/2018, where it is expressly provided that their protection goes to the Social Solidarity Portfolio. And that is an answer to the rapporteur in New Democracy, who wondered what position the Ministry of Migration Policy has on this matter. The position is that responsibility passes to the relevant Ministry, which knows and knows how this procedure should be done. It is also a very important step to recognise the importance of the Ministry of Migration Policy, for which we were swept away when we founded it. The Ministry of Social Solidarity will therefore arrange for the protection and care of the applicants. And it is what - as I have said before - has the necessary know-how, services and supervised bodies, such as the National Centre for Social Solidarity, which so far has been taking care of the recording and structures of unaccompanied minors in general. This is a comprehensive piece of legislation, a product of broad processing and consultation. The commission for unaccompanied minors is an intersection, an essential defence of the rights of children who have come to our country and are separated from their families. It opens the way to better living conditions at all levels. At this point I would like to say that it is imperative - and our country must insist on and impose it - that the programme of family reunification to the countries of Europe, which has been suspended, should go hand in hand with international law. For the first time, therefore, a specific framework for unaccompanied applicants has been established in addition to the general institution of the Juveniles Commission of the Civil Code. The district prosecutor shall be the temporary commissioner. And from there on, a professional commissioner will be appointed as soon as possible, who will have the necessary skills to offer appropriate protection to his own juvenile. Here, let us say that this process will be carried out by means of a specific notice and criteria which will also be in place on the basis of the nature of this work. And, of course, there will be supervision and control by the state, because they will be part of the Commissioners' register. So there will be accountability. On this issue, I think that the JRC's view is excessive, which says that we have a privatization here, an outsourcing of this process. From there on there there have been other objections, namely that there are no plans for the procedures. As you know very well, a bill cannot - and it must not - from the outset to the end determine all the details that are relevant to the notices and competitions. This will then come with specific ministerial decisions. At this point it is worth mentioning specifically the responsibilities of the professional commissioner referred to in Article 18. The professional commissioner will be responsible and will, in fact, see to it that any procedural, legal and social issue concerning the residence, decent living and representation of the unaccompanied minor concerned. It will ensure that issues which we too have seen do not exist sufficiently for the benefit of these people, such as asylum seekers, free legal assistance, health care and psychological support, as well as education and reunification with their family, if possible, or the provision of care to a foster family. In order to be able, however, to function effectively and with transparency, speed and control, as appropriate in a modern, favoured state, the provisions of the draft law provide for the creation of the respective institutions, agencies and registries. In particular, the Supervisory Board of Unaccompanied minors is set up, the Directorate for the Protection of Unaccompanied minors under the CRP and the corresponding registries to which I referred previously. Generally speaking, the provisions are based on the best interest of the unaccompanied minor, and there is also a specific article - Article 21 - which expressly refers to the assessment and determination of this best interest. Furthermore, it is clear that this and all international texts of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and other European and international texts. So while Donald Trump separates children and infants from their parents or closes them all together in cages, while Europe wants to finally leave, in the papers, the rights of refugees and the most vulnerable group, of unaccompanied minors, with daily shipwrecks in the Mediterranean, with slavery, with announcements of closed centres and deportation platforms, the Greek Government continues to prioritise the protection of all these devastated people from wars, poverty, violence and impoverishment. The legal framework for the boarding of unaccompanied minors comes to open the way for a decent living for these children in our country to stay in structures and homes. It comes to do something else very important: to abolish detention in practice, because it is also an alternative, but it is also an integration. Therefore, because now and now that we are talking about, there are, unfortunately - for a while - children who are in detention centres and police departments, it must be our goal to end this and not to make a reservation, but to join. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore welcome and vote proudly in favour of the present draft law of the Ministry of Labour, because we, ladies and gentlemen, are, as Yiannis Angelakis says, with the band "Trypes", "with those children who, although normally born, are not normally growing, do not normally dream or fall in love", and we did not think of a second - but not a second! - Where it is, how many are and what color it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. The next speaker, Mr Tsiaras, Member of the New Democracy for seven minutes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days before the beginning of the Summer Sections, the government is on the one hand attempting to settle with various bills a few loose ends and, on the other hand, pushing political time so that a bill can be passed that will be in the Greek Parliament's plenary tomorrow and, of course, it will be very serious changes in the way local government operates. But we're going to today's bill. I think that the framework set by the rapporteur for Officerial Response, Mr Metarakis, actually describes that this is a draft law which in no way has a great deal of value. It is a draft law, which has pensions, insurance, labour provisions, many of which are referred to in future with authorisations, but, of course, many of which do not even have as a reference the determination of the financial costs. I have heard many colleagues from the Couple say in the last few days: 'We are bringing in a bill that fights undeclared work'. Really, is that so? Can you believe it? Do you know when Greece's undeclared work was effectively fought? Anyone with a reasonable and fair criterion is trying to approach this issue, it is certain that it will admit that this was done in the days of the previous government - and indeed in the days when the present Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsis, was Minister at the respective ministry - when with measurable results we saw the undeclared work being reduced. Do you want to make a comparison, in the time of your own governance, how limited was undeclared work compared to the previous year? I think that, too, you can easily see it and find yourself, once again, confronted with truth and reality. Truth and reality! I have asked myself another time about this, if some things from what the Prime Minister claims and possibly many of the honourable Members believe or are simply reasons why one can justify one's self-determination towards Greek citizens and Greek society! I really hear contradictory and different views in private debates, but it is a very unanswered question that concerns Greek citizens. And I come to the point, because for us the substance is the amendment that we tabled and which was announced by the President of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis last Thursday in the debate on the earlier agenda. And of course it was tabled in the bill that we are debating today. The government is trying to set up a very nice account: we are finishing with the memorials, we are finally getting out of supervision, from the comitology, we can do what we want. And, indeed, Mr Moscovisi came and said positive words. And of course we now appreciate Mr Moscovisi's positive words, regardless of whether we do not appreciate statements by Mr Draghi or Mr Regling. This is another issue, it is the well-known ad hoc assessment of European officials' statements. Now we can claim to Greek citizens that we can also postpone pension cuts, since the economy is going well, we have surpluses, regardless of whether it results from the overtaxation of Greek citizens and whether there is a huge pressure in the Greek economy as a whole. Since that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, and since the Prime Minister, the financial staff, Mr Kammenos, we have all done so well, there is Rhodes! There is a golden opportunity to prove to the Greek citizens that you have done so well, that the measure adopted by the Members of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks concerning the reduction of pensions - I repeat, you voted only - will not apply. Behold! It's neither rhetorical nor, on the other hand, it's trying to create some, if you want, naive approach or question questions. It's a very clear position. At some point we must also be serious about the Greek political system through the expression of the Greek Parliament having the necessary credibility towards the Greek citizens, but much more so to show that it can stand consistently towards them, especially this difficult period, the monumental period, the period of the economic crisis, I think that each of you now and each of us, I would say the three hundred here, is faced with its own credibility and dignity. Otherwise, very quickly, since things are now evolving in this direction, in the time of the elections the verdict of the Greek citizens will be very specific and I imagine similar to the works and days that each of us has taken care to prove with his role and his presence in this area and in this political scene. Finally, I remember Mr Tsipras, when he saw positive polls, saying that the previous government has no legitimacy and that we should go to elections. Of course, the rhetoric has now changed. The rhetoric now is that the elections must take place with the end of the government's constitutional mandate. In a previous year, which we ourselves were in the opposition - we, in any case - had no such reason and no, if you wish, such a statement that we should move there. I say to you this simple: polls may, to a very large extent, not reflect the election result. However, they show how Greek citizens stand against a policy, a government policy. I think you need to understand that, especially after the extremely unfortunate development and the completely unacceptable handling that you had in the name of the neighbouring country, the country of Skopje, there is a clear and concrete reference to public opinion and to how you can handle national issues, but much more by how you can identify the future of economic policy, which concerns all Greek citizens. This is something that no one, but no one, can escape throughout the historic time of post-political Greece, since it has been confirmed that the governments which to a very large extent do not prove their consistency or their honesty or credibility towards Greek citizens, confronted with public opinion and the popular verdict, are finally elsewhere. I think very soon the time will prove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs. Fotios has the floor for ten minutes. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I have not asked for the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u33	Don't you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u34	Let my colleagues speak, Mr President, and then I take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, as a parliamentary representative, I would like to have the floor, because there is a personal issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u36	Do you want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u37	Let a colleague speak, and then I talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u38	Because there is a personal issue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u39	Good. Mr. Panayotarus, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. We have one more of the insurance bills that have been filed in the years of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipality. The rapporteurs of this bill are trying to convince us that it is moving in the right direction and will correct the bad texts of all previous situations and bills, on insurance and pension issues. But the reality disproves you, not in a celebratory, but in a tragic and ethnic manner. Unfortunately or happily it is a prerequisite for a sound insurance, pension system is to have demographic growth, to increase, and economic growth, because these two factors contribute to the existence of a pillow for insurance contributions, which in turn cover medical and pension needs of Greek citizens. What are you doing? Just the opposite. Economic catastrophe, which has as a direct consequence the demographic elimination of the Greek population, which, firstly, is not of any interest to you because of your ignorance about the issues of economic development, since in your overwhelming majority you have not stuck a sign in the real economy and, secondly - even worse for your homeland and nation - it is your intention that there should be an economic and demographic destruction of the Greek population and its replacement by the poachers, whom you are trying with various bills not only to legitimise them and give them land and water, but also now with this bill to have many facilities for insurance, which will also bring pensions, etc. Everything shows that it is not by chance that this agreement made with the "go back, Mrs Merkel", as you said, will bring us hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who have passed through Greece. That is why they bring us back to us again - it is when you said that they are lost, but since they are being recorded here - and you are going to have to slowly channel them, because you are the only country in Europe together with Spain and perhaps one - two other countries which, instead of sealing the borders, instead of clamping down the laws, so that all these kinds of messengers return to their homelands or do not find them all here pomegranates, you turn the red carpet. So you do not care what happens with the pension, economic, insurance future of our country, because the financial data on what has been done so far for the insurance funds are tragic. Let us remind you - it is not just your fault, but it is your fault that the previous ones - the huge sums that have been lost when some of them gambled on the reserves of the insurance funds on the stock exchanges, and soon after that, the unrelated managers of the insurance funds gambled on the stocks that had been left behind by the destruction of the Stock Exchange in toxic bonds. They played this and supposedly invested with the great crack that began in 2008 there was nothing left at all. And some last reserves with the famous PSI, with the haircut of Mr Venizelos - which the gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK are constantly trying to justify and say what was good that was - they were lost, they were tired of, which could help in these difficult times as a pillow. And the reserves have been left, something very little, and now you're sending them all together to the central administration, to create a pillow not for the insurance, but for the finance. But, with mathematical accuracy, we will unfortunately have an economic catastrophe, because all this shows, there is no growth. All that we hear you say is words of air and will appear in the next few months. The pension insurance - which, along with the demographic catastrophe, is taking place in our country - will also lead to the depreciation of pensions, contributions and everything. Because if there are no young people who will enter a healthy economic market, so that they can make contributions either as employers or as workers, where will the funds which are needed for the health care of all those who fall within them? Where will they find the sums so that they can pay the pensions of the ever-old Greeks? Because that is where the Greek society is being driven. That is why you should have taken concrete steps fast track to save the country from the coming disaster. It should have created an insurance pillow, there should have been money for the next ten to fifteen years, not to borrow and borrow the Greek people constantly money to cover bankrupt banks and more. Maybe it should be the only reason, the only reason we should have raised money with a loan or whatever. There should be incentives, at the same time, for a demographic explosion, so that there are Greek workers in the future who will make contributions, in order to support older people and younger people. There should also be incentives for economic growth because, when there is economic growth, there are jobs. When there are jobs, there are both bosses and workers and workers and employers and self-employed persons. All of these contribute with their contributions to the insurance funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. However, with everything that is happening in our country, particularly in the last eight years, there has been none of this. And as long as this sick situation continues, this vicious circle of destruction, there is no future for our country. There will be a development and a demographic explosion only if there is a national state once, which will put before and above all Greeks and Greece. So both Greek workers and Greek employers. We wish these changes that are happening and are taking place throughout Europe to come and come to Greece, even with little delay, so most of you will be in the past, along with your most anachronistic and destructive ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Brutsi, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u42	I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u43	Okay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who believe in a basic principle over time that a basic section of democracy is parliamentaryism. So the quality of democracy depends inextricably on the quality of parliamentaryism. I have served the country's political system as a Member since 2007. It is a great honour for me to be at the seat of the Greek Parliament, trying all these years, always on the basis of the truth, dignity and credibility, standing from the Step of the Parliament and standing before all the wings of Parliament and colleagues, but above all the Greek people. I regret to make a point in the course of the operation of Parliament, which is something that has to do with the first time in Parliament. And I say this, because for decades now, through the restoration of democracy, we have managed as a political system to have our differences, politically and ideologically - and that is the beauty of democracy - to cross the swords of ideas with different political approaches and citizens, to draw their conclusions and to end up where they think it is the right one and the best. What's the matter for the first time with SYRIZA? What we had achieved as a political system at the same time in previous years was that, in addition to the political differences, there was a point where we were credible, the whole political system was credible, all the previous parties: the evidence. We agreed on basic things, such as the facts, which are undeniable. Well, for the first time this has been overturned with SYRIZA, which permanently distorts the truth, is lying and even falsifying the evidence. A climax: Last Thursday, Minister of Labour, the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, from this step, invoking Mr. Mitsotakis, that, if he becomes Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis will release the redundancies, that is to say he will bring the collective redundancies. Did you inform the Prime Minister, Minister, that you voted for team redundancies for the first time in the history of the country's Labour Law?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u45	Not for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling No 4472/2017, Rule 17. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the history of the country's Labour Law, uncontrolled group redundancies are signed by Alexis Tsipras, Government SYRIZA - ANEL. I would like to put this to the attention of my fellow Members, and at least to the attention of the SYRIZA. What had not brought any government to the detriment of workers - why is the provision for uncontrolled collective redundancies unacceptable - brought it by the SYRIZA Government and put the Prime Minister to call on Mr Mitsotakis that, if he becomes Prime Minister, he will bring a law which you have already guaranteed in the labour law of the country? How can we say that? Isn't it a parliamentary defoliation? Isn't that a decline of democracy? I'm moving on to the rest. Of course, we are not 'no' at all. But when I hear the SYRIZA Members, my dear colleagues say that in three and a half years the legality of the labour market with SYRIZA has been restored, I wonder: This is the text, with the SYRIZA elements, which as Minister I had the good intention - and that was my job and my job - to try to combat undeclared work. "ARTEMIS", December 2017, with SYRIZA data on undeclared work. Listen up. The undeclared work, ladies and gentlemen, in February 2013, we will indeed agree, was launched at 40.47%. I called and continue to name undeclared work as an economic and social crime, and then I fought the battle, along with the Minister of Labour's services, to fight it to the extent that we can, because there is no magic button when human relations exist, to fight it. 40,47% fell, with your own figures, in December 2014 to 13,82%. And in December 2017, with your own figures, SYRIZA, three years later, just 11.65%. What does that mean? In two years' time, with measures we have taken, with determination, with the services of the Ministry of Labour, we have reduced undeclared work and SYRIZA, the fighter, is supposed, in favour of the working class, within three years only 1,87%. I don't underestimate it. And 1,87% is a percentage, but, anyway, tell the truth. Show a politeness, because there is also a need for politeness in politics. Don't be so petty. Admit the truth. And I keep going. We are listening to the Prime Minister on ELSTAT, unemployment and the rest. Of course, we can reach agreement and agree on a number. Indeed, unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, in July 2013, not by accident, due to the structural and structural problems that our economy and the labour market had with it, was set at 27.9%. Yes, I was Minister of Labour. I inherited a situation, I respect it, battles were fought before me by previous ministers, and I continued on the same door. 27.9% began to deviate at high speed. The rate of de-escalation in January 2015-note! - SYRIZA took over, so unemployment has fallen to 25%. Take note of this paradox: In December 2015, without SYRIZA having touched on structural issues of employment, unemployment and the labour market, unemployment had already fallen to 23.9%. In other words, we had four and a half units declining unemployment. Random? Oh, no. It was the result of structural changes in the labour market that had taken place before me, but also during which I was a Minister of Labour. That's the truth. You're hiding her. You're lying. You're falsifying. This has no precedent in the country's parliamentary times! We had political differences, but at least in the elementary terms we agreed, in figures and in figures. Wages: I now hear about wages and the power of workers. Listen, with SYRIZA's data again, everything I read is SYRIZA's data -- EKA's wage figures. The average wage, the net wage before tax on parttime work, do you know how much it is, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, how much you have dropped it? 333,9 euros. This is the average wage of parttime work. And how many workers work in Greece with an average part-time wage? A third. One out of three workers works part-time, by the way, with flexible forms of work, which SYRIZA was electionally saying - and the JRC is right many times that scare your statements - that you will abolish flexible forms with a law and an article. I'm on my way. What is the average net salary, again with details of the ECA, for December 2017 of all employment, of all workers? The average net salary is EUR 784,8 of the employees in the country, with details of the EBRD in December 2017. And listen to what you are doing, to consult in this Chamber, to stop falsifying the truth, to falsify the data and everything that you have created before the labour market: On 9,545 euro tax which you received since December 2014, from the previous government, will go on January 1, 2020, to 5,680 euros. This deviation of EUR 3,865 with 20% provided for in the rate is a loss of EUR 773. What does that mean, based on the evidence I said before? All the employees of the country will lose a wage with SYRIZA and all the pensioners will lose a pension only, Minister. And I now come to the point at issue, which is, I think, the culmination of a procedure for which SYRIZA had to answer today, but which is not at present answered. This, ladies and gentlemen, which I will show you now before the National Representation, is the first and only proportionate study that Greece had in 2014, which showed that the system was viable by 2060, by signing the IMF, by signing the institutions, by signing the European Commission and my Minister, who measured all the adjustments of insurance from 2010 to 2014, by the National Analogue Authority all study and demand and fermentation in Europe and calculated by the most difficult assumptions. When this study was presented, SYRIZA questioned it. He didn't accept the study. What did the study say, to hear the retired people, to know why they were cut off and why they would be cut off, unfortunately, from what it seems again? And here's the size of hypocrisy and once again the lie of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Because this study showed that after the actual cuts and the first and second memoranda the insurance system in the country had reached a balance. They didn't need any more reductions. And the troika itself, as we now call it'subjects', signed that by 2060 the system was balanced. So here's the new SYRIZA study. This is the new SYRIZA study that came out a month ago. Do you accept it? Of course I do. We can't lie. It's the new study that came out three years later, with the adjustments that SYRIZA has made. And what's he doing? This study shows, ladies and gentlemen, that the system is again sustainable by 2060, but incorporates more than 35% reductions in main and 44% in supplementary pensions. A political paradox, economic: two studies, both viable by 2060, but one has incorporated the new reductions in SYRIZA. Question: Why? Because you demolished the economy in 2015. The country's financial model has fallen, GDP has fallen and you have now had to lead to new, unfair and unnecessarily reductions. And that's not enough, but you're playing with the patience, the despair you've brought the country's pensioners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Well, look at us. Invoke and say that these reductions, of which half have been made - because under the Katorugalou Act, 4287/16, reductions for the new pensioners have already begun, 35% of the principals and 44% of the subsidiary, for all new pensioners after May 2016 - with Law No 4472/17, your Government's Minister - your Government, which are outside the third memorandum - are the new reductions relating to personal differences. The reductions will be appalling, one in three pensions for all existing pensioners and one supplementary pension. And you say that you will not apply them, which you voted for yourself, which is something that you have decided on yourself, which the New Democracy voted against, which explains why it was unjust and unfair to retired people. And be careful, these reductions in SYRIZA have also been in the holistic programme, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, which you invoke and triumphantly quantify, and in the proportionate study I showed before and in the medium-term fiscal strategy programme that we voted on a month ago. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So I am speaking before the National Representation to show mockery and hypocrisy, first as a New Democracy, what you are saying is that you will abolish the amendment with all the Members of the New Democracy to stop the unfair and inappropriate reductions in pensions that you have brought against pensioners. Here is a glorious field, Minister, today in this Chamber, vote for the New Democracy amendment, finally vote once and do your duty with truth and honesty to the Greek people. Once you have had the circumstances, which you have not done for three and a half years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u47	Ms Manolakos, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, the Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u49	I'll give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u50	No, Mr. President. We have asked for the floor beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u51	Now, my colleague's step is up. What can we do? Should we get her down? I'll give you the floor right after. Please, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u52	That's very charitable, the Civic Opposition. She forgot her eleven pension reductions. Of course, so much more of yours. You have a tie. She does not, however, appreciate that you have kept her laws and continued unsatisfactoryly. Of course, many amendments too. Of all the things the baxes have, even culture cannabis on high productivity land. Great food for food security! Good for you! And with this bill, however, you are trying to show face to face-to-face charity, charity and solidarity for the suffering and misery created by your own, but also by previous, anti-popular, cruel and inhuman policy for the people and victims of the imperialist wars, the uprooted. You need it, because you've been taken for fairy tales, for fake expectations. You are trying to show that you are even interested in the protection and working conditions of the workers. And yet, six months ago on a repair ship in Perama tens of workers were exposed to the dangerous and deadly asbestos material, under the responsibility of the shipowner and contractors. It was denounced by the unions in the ship repair zone. And what did the government do? He tried to cover the responsibilities of employers, pushing workers to work unprotected, despite the bans and risks of "DIMOCRITOS". And you withdrew the closure of work to serve the shipowner company. The JRC has tabled a timely question. You haven't been here for weeks to answer. Yeah, we denounced you. And the great mockery of the government was that, after so much evidence and while an investigation was under way by the prosecutors, the Ministry of Shipping issued an order to ban the ship concerned. When? When he was gone days ago for an unknown destination. After five months, at the end of May, and under the trade union pressure the Ministry of Labour announced that workers who participated in the maintenance of this ship can carry out free tests to see whether their health was affected by asbestos. That's who you are. Both the current government and the previous ones. Your interest? How to ensure the profits and interests of shipowners and contractors, endangering even the lives of hundreds of workers. In the face of millions of profits, you consider them to be consumable. Article 9 on the liability of contractors and contractors towards workers contains positive elements. But it is also a precursor that everyone will work with such employment relationships. The permanent and stable work, that is, becomes a dream of summer night and the contractors are generalized. Our rapporteur has said that. For this reason, the proposed arrangements include payment of dues, remuneration, insurance contributions and other positive, but not the application of collective agreements. That's the ones you threw in the basket. As far as the articles on unaccompanied minors are concerned, the issue of outdated refugees and migrants as a whole has been transformed into a miserable bazaar at their expense. It also appeared at the last summit of the European Union. Worse and more dangerous decisions have been taken, translated into an even greater clandestine of refugees and immigrants in Greece, more repression, expulsion, imprisonment and attack on the rights of refugees and immigrants, countries - Immigrant warehouses, greater penetration of European monopolies in third countries in the name of restricting immigration. For the statements by the Minister of Labour that we had two opposing forces at the last summit and that this confrontation is very critical for the European future, as well as that the Greek Government kept a stand of principle and values, we have one word to say: and the declarations of satisfaction made by the Prime Ministers both of the Visegrad countries and of the nationalists, as well as the cosmopolitans, have destroyed the myth about the division of the European Union between the dark and the repression on one hand and solidarity on the other. Despite any contradictions, one is the European Union and it is becoming even more reactionary and hostile to the people. The Greek Government's attitude is provocative and hostile to the interests of both the people and the refugees and migrants, after voting for all the anti-popular decisions of the Council. And they don't save you some positive articles about unaccompanied minors. You're stuck in all the imperialist designs. You have made the country a forum for imperialist interventions that cause mass refugee and immigration. And in this sense, the articles on unaccompanied minors bring to mind the proverb "to burn you, Giannis, to grind you oil". Let me remind you, of course, that two months ago a bill from the Ministry of Immigration were also passed on to unaccompanied children. However, tours made by the JRC Members on hot spots find that many of them do not apply, are not always implemented. As our rapporteur has said, we do not agree with the articles on NGOs nor with the institution of the professional commissioner. As regards the appointment of a commissioner of unaccompanied minors, it is of course stated that the referral bodies will without delay inform the prosecutor who acts as a temporary commissioner. The 'without delay' is vague and must of course be determined. But why do you put it? Because there are great deficiencies in interpreters in the first place. You don't know when the unaccompanied minor will be certified to get his way. So here you are trying to manage the greatest caging of refugees and migrants, including unaccompanied children, under terrible conditions, through the sovereignty of NGOs and the institution of the professional commissioner, which means privatized, professionally entrusted to a private firm. Instead of measures for the immediate, rapid reunification of these children with their families in other countries, but also for those children who are staying in Greece, they must be a public body that has responsibility, care, protection, and housing in public structures that meet specific standards. These are the JRC's proposals and, of course, the fight and the joint struggle of Greeks, migrants and refugees against the European Union's reactionary and anti-popular decisions. The way out is in the common struggle against the imperialist war and Greece's participation in it, but also against the system that gives rise to mass refugee and immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. Mr Iliopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u55	Yeah, but before we cut him off.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I want to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u57	Okay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I am not in the habit of intervening in the Bureau procedures. I think, however, that the parliamentary procedure serves real political controversy whenever it happens in this Chamber. It wasn't right. We had notified - I know because I was also informed by the relevant ministers - that there would be a position of the State Secretary immediately after the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative had been placed. It's a matter of substance. They're gone now. It would serve significantly - I do not underestimate your intervention at all, Mrs Manolakou, and you know that - political dialogue and political controversy. He needs some attention. You know I've never noticed you for the first time. More is being done by your parliamentary group than by us. In that sense, I would like to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u59	I hope, Mr. Mada, that you understand that there was no intention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u60	Okay. I would point out, however, that it is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u61	There was a consultation with the Secretariat, which I had not understood. That's all. It wasn't a matter. Besides, Mr Brutsis may not be present, but he is the New Democracy. We'll have secondarys and speak, I imagine, Mr. Brutsi. That's not the point. Please, Mr. Heliopoulou, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to start differently, but I think it helps the flow of the debate to have a live dialogue here and to answer some arguments. The first phrase I would like to say is this: in my opinion it is very important in democracy that there should be clean counter-projects. In this sense, I think I can say a great deal of thanks to Mr Brutsi for what he said a moment ago. At a very critical point, he also mentioned what he had said in committee. I kept the record to testify, but I don't have to, after he said it a moment ago. What, in my opinion, is the key to what Mr Brutsi said? That "we managed and reduced unemployment, because we followed structural reforms at work". What were the structural reforms followed by Mr Brutsis at work? The abolition of collective agreements, the reduction of minimum wages by 22% and the reduction in young people by 32% and redundancies by making redundancies easier. When you say that, because we followed these structural reforms, we dropped unemployment, you actually say what the New Democracy programme is for the next day at work. The New Democracy programme for the next day at work has a phrase: if there was no memorandum, we should invent it. That is it, that remains and we thank them very much for coming. I do not even need to refer to Mr Mitsotakis' position in BSE, which says a number of things. I'll see you later. Mr. Brutsis is obsessed with the team redundancies and called the Minister's veto anachronistic. To remind him that the actual group redundancies, which fortunately did not go ahead, were the fifteen thousand redundancies Mr Mitsotakis would have made to civil servants. And team redundancies, and very close to that, were what was done with the teachers in technical high school, what was done with the cleaners, what was done in a number of branches and what he says today, that they are abundant doctors. We say they don't have enough doctors, just like they don't have enough teachers and teachers. It also characterised the twelve cuts in the 'adjustments' pensions. They were adjustments for Mr Brutsi who made the insurance system viable. They came here today to do, in my opinion, a purely communication show, saying "we say to you to get the cut back for 2019". I would remind you that when in the second assessment the Greek Government said that neither structural nor budgetary measures were necessary and we had the veto of the International Monetary Fund to our minds, the Equatorial Opposition said that the figures did not come out and that measures were needed. He said in 2016 he'd come a cutter. He didn't come down in 2016. He said the cutter was coming in in 2017. He didn't come cutter in 2017. He said he would not close the program in 2018 and we would enter a credit line, i.e. a new memorandum. That's not what came either. Why should the Civic Opposition constantly set its line on an upcoming catastrophe? Because whenever it is forced to talk about its real social programme, whether it is about education, whether it is about health or work, its programme is a continuation of the Memorandum of Continuation. The only framework in which these Memorandum Forces could stay alive would be an upcoming disaster for the Greek economy. Unfortunately for them, fortunately for the vast social majority, this disaster is not coming. Last comment and then I'll be more specific in the numbers. He said Mr. Brutsis that undeclared work is a social and economic crime. I'll agree. And how do you fight undeclared work? With a fine? With a layout? You fight it through the Labour Inspectorate. What did Mr. Brutsis do when he was Minister of Labour at the Labour Inspectorate? He abolished two hundred nine posts, organic posts, at the Labour Inspectorate. He withdrew the Legal Support Department in the Labour Inspectorate and I think that in general with good ideas, undeclared work is not being chased. If undeclared work is a financial crime, to dismantle the Labour Inspectorate, then what is it? At least a contribution to economic crime. After hearing how Mr Brutsis treats the figures for undeclared work and how he treats mathematics, I think I have a better picture at the moment about how the country finally entered the memorandum. If they were dealing with economic sizes in the way they read the undeclared work figures, they certainly managed to reach 15% of the deficit and all that we saw. I'm actually entering. What have we heard so far about this bill by the New Democracy gentlemen? We've heard that the bill is a contributory. It's not important. What did we hear about the previous bill of the Ministry of Labour, which was passed last September? That it's a communal trick for the Prime Minister to go up to the ICU. Just here is our basic differentiation: what we consider to be important and what they consider to be important. Because we consider it very important that redundancies should not be kept behind voluntary departure. Because we consider the provision for unilateral harmful change to be very important. Because we consider it very important that the payment order should be ordered that workers take their wages and wages. Because we consider it very important that wages now enter through a bank. Because we consider it very important that a brake enters undeclared work on building works. To come to this bill, because we consider what is very important in contractors for undeclared work, for the thermal stress of workers and in a number of other critical parts. Because these little things for some of the Civic Opposition are great for the lives of thousands of workers out there. We too insist and say that the question of work is a key division, not only about what has happened in the crisis, but about what is happening and the next day. In relation to undeclared work, what does this bill do? Firstly, we have said it from the outset that dealing with undeclared work is not just a question of a fine. It is a question of a more comprehensive approach and of what is going on with the control mechanisms. It is a much more multilateral issue. What do we say? We want to tackle the core of the problem. What's the core of the problem? Undeclared worker working legally. If we ask Mr. Brutsi if he has any evidence from his ministry about what happened after the fines in undeclared work, he will not have any evidence. And why won't he have any evidence? There will be no evidence why the Greek state was not concerned with keeping evidence for the moment. He didn't care about that little detail. We're just putting a fine, but then we don't collect the data to assess the policy. We did this job, and we packed the data. The data show that in the vast majority there is no intake of undeclared workers. So what do we say? That the most crucial thing is giving the undeclared worker justice. That is why we put the legal presumption 'three months'. The legal presumption ‘three months’ means the floor. From there on, if intake takes place in great time, the fine will be reduced. Is that an incentive to undeclared work? Whoever says that is lying consciously. Why is he lying consciously? Because in our provision, the fine for undeclared work can reach 30,000 euros. Because the undeclared person knows that the next two years will have to be reviewed by the Labour Inspectorate, and so far this has not existed. The essential re-control is what shields and the fact that the relapse is being punished too much. But what is the critical variable? The employer knows one piece is the fine. The second part is how likely the check is to take place. If he thinks there's an Inspection broken down, as the New Democracy did, and the worker has no motive to denounce, he can even take the risk. But when he knows that the Labour Inspectorate works and that the employee has motive to denounce, then he does not take the risk easily. And the worker at the moment, with this arrangement, has an incentive to report. He has an incentive to speak to the Labour Inspectorate and move on. The example has been heard, which shows total ignorance of the law on what is happening today, that only by a small three-month contract the employer will go to the fine of seven grand. Today, if the offender - employer simply paid the fine within ten days, the fine goes to seven grand. We abolish this and say that, in order to get the fine to seven grand, the worker will get six months of alcohol. If that is not a advance and justice for the undeclared worker, then I really cannot understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u63	Three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u64	Three months that is the legal presumption and three months that the recruitment is. Six months of bad dreams. I'm talking very well and I know what I'm saying, Mr. Katsotis. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 145]] Did New Democracy reduce undeclared work? We heard she was reduced to 24%. I've said it before, I'm afraid I'll say it again now. Mr. Brutsis reads the evidence by jumping the pages. He doesn't read all the paintings. He doesn't behave properly against the evidence. Having raised the question of magnanimity to say this: I think it is very important that there should be data, that there should be data, and that was a very important step in creating the 'ERGAN' system. And if Mr. Brutsis wants credit for that, we can give it to him. We don't have a problem with that. But also to make political criticism beyond the personal part. Mr Brutsis himself said he was a Member since 2007. Precisely, Mr Brutsi, because you are neither a autonomous person nor before you were on the extra-parliamentary Left, the fact that in 2013 you remembered to create an information system and keep data is not for credit. The fact that the public administration still suffers where it keeps data, etc. It's not for credit. Now we're here to talk with evidence. We're telling you again that you're making a very big poaching. What's the big poaching? You get the monthly figures, not the annual figures. What do the annual figures in the high infractional branches show, a table that you constantly deny him? That 2013 was at 31.6%, in 2014 at 19.17% and today at 12.4%. I'm filing the first painting. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Athanasios Iliopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices]] If you do not like this table, there is a second table, which has undeclared work in the whole economy and not just in some sectors. Why constantly invoke the painting from some branches. As a whole, the table that is yours shows that between 2013 and 2014, undeclared work has doubled. I won't oppose you in this thing. Can I tell you why? Because in monthly figures, while showing undeclared work at 40%, at the same time in the economy as a whole, it gives evidence that undeclared work is at 2.3%. in the same system. Do you know why this is happening? Because 2013 was the first time data was kept, apparently there were limit values, and the figures are not yet weighted. That is why we say it is more right and fairer to use the annual data than to read the data as it suits us. If we wanted to follow your line, we would tell you that from 2013 to 2014 you doubled undeclared work. I'm putting this down for the Minutes too. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr Athanasios Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Last part. We are constantly talking about undeclared work and at the same time you have forgotten something else: what about alleged work? Did he ever deal with the Ministry or anyone, so we can see what's going on with the alleged work? No, there was no evidence of the alleged work. And go to a specific example. A few days ago Mr. Mitsotakis spoke to the Assembly of Greek Banks. He didn't find a half word to say about workers, except to have them well with employers, not to fight and to love each other and all of us together to move forward. Only in banks last year and this year have 2.8 million fines for undeclared work. Do you know what the official information banks say about overtime for 2017 is? On the basis of the official data for each staff member for 2017, two hours of overtime corresponded. It's official evidence. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Athanasios Iliopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Senography and Practices.]] The fact that Mr Mitsotakis did not find words within the Banking Convention, because we are often not judged only by what we are saying, we are also judged for our silences. I am presenting for the Practical Press Releases of the Workers' Association at Piraeus Bank, after the large audit carried out at Piraeus Bank, which confirmed the fine of 1.6 million, that for the first time - after eight years - the bank's working hours are being held. That is what brings results and who does not produce results in favour of workers. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Athanasios Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] The second point, for which Mr Mitsotakis did not find words, within the banks, which are in BSE, which all view eight hours outdated, is not an academic issue for bankers and BSE, and are implemented daily with the People's Party. But we don't have to go to Austria. We need to get here near the central banks, where when the Labour Inspector got in, they were taken out of the basement, they were taken out of the garages, the emergency exits from next door, or they were hidden under tables, but that's why you don't have to say a word. You can't say anything. Let's go to the contractors now. What about the contractors? While you all recognise the problem, you say: ‘What are we going to do now in the business world? To remain a problem for the workers.' To be chased by a contractor and to be simply a worker running in the courts. Another key difference between us, whose problem will be. We say that no matter what happens, the worker will be paid. It won't be his problem. Whatever happens, whatever it is in the chain of assignment, the employee will know that he will take his money and that in nothing changes the role of the Labour Inspectorate. Last sentence, and I'm closing. I repeat, if we could, with a phrase, characterize the New Democracy programme at work, that is: a memorandum, a memorandum, a memorandum. That is why you are constantly hoping for an economic disaster. Fortunately for us and fortunately for the majority of this country, this economic disaster is not coming. Collective agreements are coming back, and we show that every day we will fight this battle for the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that by letter from the President of the New Democracy to the President of Parliament, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis is declared to be independent MP Mr Georgios Katsiantonis joins and joins the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. The abovementioned letter is entered in the Minutes and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u66	Mrs Papacosta, Independent MEP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. It's an important bill, ladies and gentlemen. It is a bill in which, for example, everyone knowing the past, the present and the future in the labour sector, but also in the critical and neuro-algal sector, the number-one problem in our country - but also in Europe - of unemployment, we must all fight together - so that we can agree that those which from the past came as problems and which have not been solved, must be resolved today in an operational, effective and sustainable way so that the law, as a tool - because this is what is at issue - give the answers they need in difficult times. The second is to protect young workers in particular, to look at the philosophy of the bill and the workers in general, who in an insecure market that is liquid, that is moving sand because of the economic crisis, or, if you like, the economic crisis has become an alibi, the country's labour law, as well as European labour law and legislation. So we have to see how, apart from any party conflicts, I see no ideological thing anymore, we have to see how we can regulate them in the best interests of the weakest side which, according to the Constitution but also with labour law, is always the worker. So, in this sense, undeclared work, matters of insurance, pension issues, issues that are delimited to a circle, which has so far been vicious, because of the painful eight-year period experienced by the country, under the memoranda and the Memorandum period, now, which will typically come out, we have to get into a normality, which you all understand and understand, and all of us understand that the first and targeted priority to be made by the political world - government, deserveful Unpopulation, the whole of the parties and the new parties that are going to come along - is to protect the workers. On the other hand, entrepreneurship should not feel threatened by legislative interventions if they come, for example, from a government which, until now, did not see entrepreneurship in good eyes or feel that they are being put, because, for example, if there are fines, I saw - and you saw it at the hearing of operators - that the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship expressed reservations and an anxiety as to whether and whether there is a punishment in relation to fines to them. So the political world needs to be informed that it does not punish anyone. We need to agree that the worker should be our priority. So undeclared work must be stopped, and I do not think there will be conflicts in this regard. I have already listened to the relevant ministers in charge of invoking the previous ones, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a dead end, as it is not going anywhere to be able to give up on one side, that you have until then had so much undeclared work and we have reduced that today. This shows that there is a problem, that it has not been solved. Some steps may have been taken to solve the problem, but that is why we are legislating. So we have to do our self-criticism, which is what we are all talking about, and conflicts do not concern society and do not concern workers. On undeclared work, I think that we must all be positive and defenders of armoring the work of citizens, which is a social right, in such a way that the conditions and conditions and areas in which the work is carried out are the ones defined, the conditions of health. It is not just a question of undeclared work. The wages paid must be decent, and we must see here, and I propose it and have had the opportunity, as I visited several ministers of government, because they govern and should therefore be aware of our opinion and our proposals. Because I have never been in favour of the view of blind conflict on the blind conflict in politics, nor of the view that I should only criticise, but of the proposal. So the positive proposal I make - and I encourage the legislators to adopt it - is that the wages of the workers should finally be decent. We should see after the country's formal exit from the memorandum minimum wages correspond to the decent living of the workers. We should definitely see the collective agreements. It is our duty, ladies and gentlemen. It is not something we want to choose, depending on which side we sleep or look ideologically. It is an obligation of a democratic state and a requirement for the Constitution, since work is a social right, to see the issues of collective agreements. Of course, we also need to look at the question of retirement, where there are a number of typical issues, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, which need to be resolved. There are references to the Scientific Committee, which I do not want to repeat, which I adopt and urge the Ministers to see and improve their legislative initiative, but are in a direction that must be sustainable and effective, We should also see pension issues more widely, the big picture. And I think the deadlocked conflict, which has erupted between the government and the Civic Opposition and Tublin, should be stopped here. We have to understand that citizens are not obliged to tolerate our own conflicts. It's none of my business politically. I suggest pensions may not be cut. And as a "New Greek Ormes" I have made a proposal to the Ministry of Labour, with two measurable methods that can block pension cuts, because society can no longer stand and we should focus our policies on human beings. Finally, I would like to say that it is very right to regulate unaccompanied minors. But look at the example of Belgium. See how Belgium works on the issues of the commissioner of unaccompanied minors, after we have a new regulation. Why not adopt this good practice? Look at it, please too. Finally, I would like to say that there is a question of widow's pensions. Already in the ninth month of 2017, since last year, I had raised the issues of widow's pensions, which have to do with the survival of some Greek families, who cannot live with 300 euros of widow's pension. It's an unsolved reality. We have to see how we legislate on these families in the context of defending the greater good, which is man. In that sense, with the objections and proposals and the Scientific Committee and my own, I think it is a bill that will solve problems. I hope it will solve them definitively, so that we do not have to redefinite ourselves on matters that have had to be solved from time to time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. After Mrs Papakostas, Mr Igoumenides, Member of the SYRIZA, has been speaking for seven minutes. Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the bill we are debating today on labour and insurance has a positive sign. It is no accident, in my opinion, that the satisfaction of a number of bodies in their hearings is expressed. First of all, I think it is worth standing at the time of this bill. It comes just before the end of the memorandum, just before the end of the committee, with the official exit from the recession and the recovery of the Greek economy, with the removal of the country's exclusion from the markets, now that the potential for our country really is being shaped. I would say that the bill that we are discussing today is the link between tomorrow and tomorrow. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that they are also the divisive part of the two policies that are conflicting today and which are now becoming more distinctive. It says Mrs Papakostas: 'I do not think there is any conflict on these issues' and I would agree with her that the problems do not have a colour. Colour, however, has their solution. On the one hand we have the neoliberal point of view, which, to go right through neoliberal policy in Greek society, attacks as tsunami and scans all the conquests of the labour movement. I would really like to ask the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy: does he agree with his Chief that collective bargaining is a left-wing idea? Do you agree, Mr. Bruce, that the eighth is overdue? Do you agree with the view of Officerial Response that the collective expression of workers' rights is outdated? And to take a step further, do you agree with your ideological brothers in Austria talking about a 12-hour week and a six-hour weekly work?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u70	It's for trucks, for automobiles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u71	It is obvious - to open up another parenthesis - that for its viability the insurance system does not need any further reduction in pensions. I would like to ask, however, how many workers, really, believe that this amendment tabled by the Members of the New Democracy and the Change Movement, indeed, is being made to protect pensions? The second question: Does the amendment you have tabled apply forever or only to the time that SYRIZA governs? Will it also apply retrospectively or only to the cuts made by SYRIZA? Does it strengthen the position of the Greek Government vis-à-vis the institutions which we are discussing or not? And if it strengthens it because, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you attacked Moscovisi who said: 'yes, can we see it'? It's been half my time already. I will not take any more time to prove New Democracy's subjection to populism, rumphetti, voting. On the other hand, we have a second point of view, on the left. For us, gentlemen, the social state is a central pillar, it is a precondition, it is a multiplier of the development process. The social state is a social and national need, and as such is a government priority. We do not mean growth without work rehabilitation. This is why labour relations and the defence of labour are a key component of the new social state. As a sample of script, first of all, as of August, the principle of expansion is restored, the principle of more favourable regulation. We have the rest of the arrangements for the bill. I'd like to stand on Article 3. I am putting a question here on 19 October 2017, which the Minister promised, and today with the bill, is taking place. It concerns the contributions of journalists, engineers, free tradesmen, a group of professionals from the Kaparian region of the Municipality of Faistos, etc. It concerns thousands of insured persons who are faced with skeletons of the past and who, today, really are struggling for the lifting of all doubts and their release from the debts, and they really do not have to. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second is Article 34. I am also asking a question from February 8, 2018 - where the Minister was committed - for the long-term unemployed who have stopped from being long-term unemployed. Let's say that's also true retroactively, since they were erroneously deleted from the registers. Also, those who have been delisted from the OAED’s unemployed’s registers have been re-issued as young unemployed, may, within ninety days, object to correcting the problem and restoring continuity. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, dealing with undeclared and implied work - that is, enslaved work - with the protection of workers in contractors and subcontractors, with the protection of workers in apprenticeship and practical training, with the protection of working hours, with all the provisions of the draft law, which we are debating today, certainly give a sign of a policy in favour of the worker. It goes without saying that from now on, for the world of work, many steps have to be taken, they can and will be taken. However, today it is perfectly understandable, in my opinion, who is with whom. Today's bill is the final proof that the current government is very clear on the part of the workers. Today we have an obligation to safeguard and strengthen the working environment in a direction that is more and more effective to protect workers, at the same time as to combat unemployment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Along with the healthy and fighting social forces, together with the world of work, we have many battles in front of us for this realistic objective. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that we have the history and the future on our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. These are provisions which have already been introduced into the committees and are made following Members' comments. At the end of paragraph 3 of Article 2, a indent (c) is added. It concerns farmers - to remember - who have waited for them to join. This provision is directly part of social security only by submitting the inventories. There are delays many years from the past, because the services first had to check whether there was an estate, whether there was a livestock unit and so on, so that the insured, at the start of their insurance, would have to pay debts from the past. I mean, they were debtors from the first time they became insured. Years of debtors! That's what this bill solves. With this provision, with the legislative improvement, we say that no health contributions are sought for the period between the submission of the inventory until the completion of the registration in the ECA insurance records. There's a retrospective arrangement. It is also a request from the farmers. Right, I think we're setting this up here. On the basis of this regulation - we generally - at the end of paragraph 3 of Article 2 we add, in the following case: 'In the same way, no contributions from a health branch shall be sought in any case of retroactive application of the ECAI's insurance for a date which runs before the time of registration'. In the case of school guards, we also add, according to Members' comments, legislative improvement as follows: 'Time of employment which has taken place since the first day in these programmes is a real time of insurance'. This means that everyone must be insured retroactively and seek as wrongly paid contributions that they have paid because they are the ones liable to pay them. Fourth legislative improvement: Article 4(2) shall be deleted and paragraph 3 shall be renumbered 2. It concerns debt write-offs from church institutions. I believe that the Ministry's attitude should also be seen with the Church in these matters and have their own opinion. That is why we withdraw it so that we can see it and bring it back with a better conversation with the Greek Church. Fifth, paragraph 2 of Article 4, as renumbered, is added after the words ‘The method of payment of the above’ the word ‘insurance’. And the other is technical. the word ‘EFTA’ is replaced by the words ‘the institution concerned’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u74	I also accept two amendments tabled. One is the general number 1665 and special 136, so that there is no doubt that the legal person governed by private law CITES is not profitable. It is a question that solves doubts about the tax treatment of the TEMPUS. The second is Amendment No 1673, and special No 138, which solves the problem of early withdrawal of teachers from the wrong application of a Ministry of Education circular for the last 10 days of April to 11-5-2016. This amendment recognises time as pensionable and counts in the rest of the time of insurance. It is a matter of 15 days and it concerns very few teachers. I think we should rightly deal with this in the way it is now resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Theodora Megalo-Economist, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is proof of how much government work has gone on dealing with the day-to-day problem. The provisions we are discussing today offer simple and reasonable solutions to a number of issues facing the average Greek pensioner, businessman and ordinary citizen. These are issues that have passed and the previous governments have no interest in giving a solution. For example, there will now be a uniform treatment for candidate pensioners coming from any fund and who have applied for retirement. It is also obvious that the employee and the free worker can lodge a pension application and continue to work. To date, pension seekers waited for too many months, during which they were banned from working and having no income, waiting for their retirement time to come. That's far beyond senselessness. Thus, they were forced to be borrowed by acquaintances, friends, relatives and their children. Finally, there is a very reasonable first time for such an important issue, which is afflicting so many of our people. At this point I would like to stress that there is, respectively, an injustice in some of the pensioners who come from various funds, since we have now created a single fund, the ECA. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, the pensioners of the former government, the IKA, the NAT receive their pensions at the end of each month. However, pensioners who may consider them second-class, the pensioners of the former OAU and OGA, receive their pension on the first day of each month, so that they often find it difficult to pay their obligations in the short term - whether they have made arrangements in insurance funds or have been tax-paying - to pay the bills, PPC, OTE, which ends at the end of the month. Yes, Minister, on this issue I have tabled No. Question 7098-26-2018 and I await the reply of the relevant ministers. I expect - I am not sure - that they will understand this and give an immediate solution. I would also like to mention another serious problem. There are cases of contraction and subcontraction in Greece and who is ultimately responsible for the workers. The new regulation seems to me to protect workers, since they are all now being held responsible for not complying with labour legislation. And therefore, all factors, i.e. the contractor, contractor and subcontractor, should be double careful and legitimate. Honestly, I do not understand the New Democracy's attitude to this provision. Are you trying, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to protect businessmen, who have been depriving all these years of their responsibilities and putting all the burden on contractors? Loaning of workers, as tactics say, cannot be done on uncontrolled terms. And, of course, no law-abiding businessman has absolutely nothing to fear with this new provision. I now come to the second part of the bill and to the issue of undeclared work. This is a long history in Greece, since, as you know, it was a huge percentage of employers who, taking advantage of the economic situation and the need for the world to work, was illegally employing them. Of course, the recent period and the latest data, for example in the regular checks carried out by the relevant tiers, show a significant reduction in the percentage, since uninsured work has now been recorded at 5.95%. The new regulation allows a reduction in the fine of EUR 10,500 from EUR 7,000 to EUR 3,000 if the employer permanently hires the worker. The new provisions, which come from today's bill, I think that they will make even more effort to limit undeclared work, because in no case is there any tolerance for the employers who are illegal, as some of the Vice-Presidents have said. I would like to say to my fellow Members that, on the contrary, the framework is very strict and does not forgive the recurring offenders. In fact, a further step is taking. The changes brought by the Ministry of Labour promote not only the punishing character, which the provision said a fine of EUR 10,500, but in practice help to recruit workers for a fixed period. In other words, the new provisions take a further step towards reducing unemployment and are not just based on intimidating employers. Finally, it would be paradoxical not to make a little mention of unaccompanied minors. These children, mostly, are children of war and uprooting. They are children and adolescents who deprived everything of such a young age and found themselves, without their parents, in a foreign country. These children are constantly at risk of being exploited in its worst form, even being killed by circuits that often exploit them. It is our duty to support them, to record them, to help them integrate. For the first time these children will be able to be accepted by foster families and live in a normal family environment. Today's bill ensures that no child, no teenagers will be able to disappear, since the authorities will know the exact number of minors, where they will be at any time. The arrangements were generally accepted by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, precisely because it is a big step towards protecting unaccompanied minors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It is one of these initiatives that we must take. And I am very pleased that these provisions are part of this bill. No child and no child will feel alone, forgotten, abandoned in Greece. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Ministerial Amendment number 1663 and a specialist number of 134. I would like to stress that it solves too many issues for people with disabilities. I will, however, stay on an issue that a few of our fellow citizens know about. I'll explain it to you. Until now, if a woman had been giving birth to her child in a maternity ward and had no document on her identity, she was violently separated from the newborn, who was forced to go to social services. There will now be an in-depth procedure for the identification, identification of the mother, so that the newborn from his mother will not be removed forever. I would like to remind you that this was very often the case with the Roma. We've been dealing with this problem and we've talked to the Roma about it. And I am very pleased with this initiative taken by the Ministry. The bill therefore includes, in particular, provisions that solve time - consuming problems, which the previous governments simply did not see. That is why I consider the attitude of counter-population to be hypocritical, which does not support all the regulations, which are only positive for all of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. Mr. Castoris, SYRIZA MP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how well you prepare to contribute with your speech to a bill, it is very difficult not to succumb to the temptation to give answers to previous positions, such as Mr Brutsis's one. I understand, gentlemen, your sadness is not the disastrous account of you and that developments are completely different and completely contrary to what you hoped and what you planned. I understand, but I do not share your concern about whether or not the international agreements on pension cuts are respected. I understand, but I do not sympathize with you in the difficult position you are in begging Moscovisi, Merkel, the German Finance Minister, Olaf Schultz, not to relax the ropes in Greece. I understand why you have brought the pension amendment today. You brought it because nothing comes out and you need to cover, hide your attitude for the eighth hour, for the twelve-hour period, which you are compiling with the Golden Dawn, to blur the image of the country's clean exit from the memoranda, to blur the picture that you are supporting pensioners, you who have cut them twelve times the pensions, that you have abolished the gifts of Christmas, Easter, the allowances and to hide that you want to continue where you stopped when you lost government power in the public, namely redundancies, party evaluation, closure of structures and services. I want to tell you that I do not share it and I do not feel sorry for you. On the contrary, I'm very happy. I am happy, because, at last, after so many labors and sacrifices, we can now talk about the end of the memoranda, we can now put on the table our own debate conditions, such as the measures that we are discussing today, measures to halt the violent and painful changes that have taken in the dark years of the economic crisis and aspiring supervision at the expense of the world of work. And if I am to be forgiven by the colleagues of the Officerial Representation, but no matter how much I try to be careful about my public position, I cannot, while respecting the sacrifices of the Greek people, say this: no matter what kind of grievances you may think, any mischiefs you dream and design, such as what you have done with the President of the Republic, the reality is not going to do to you. The country returns to normality after our own efforts and with our own policy mix, which will move forward not because we are more sloppy than you, but because we are on the side of the overwhelming majority of citizens who have no idea what offshore companies, who have neither secretly nor manifestly grand state friends, whose only relationship with multinational companies is that they consume their products. Let's get this over with with fairy tales. We have very serious things to do and there is no more time to spend on the micro-political and pre-formative arguments, the air words of the Officer's counter-population. Of these serious, the major ones, it is also the bill we are debating today, the regulation of dismantled labour relations and the strengthening of wage earners, the incubation of the most vulnerable workers from unconscious employers and contractors practices. Some of these issues do not accept putting them on their agenda. Their right. Let them discuss whatever smokes them. We therefore want to discuss, with representatives of people involved, representatives of people who pay such practices, as we did in the committee last week, invisible workers, as they have said, for the last thirty years and not only in the last years of the economic crisis, people who have been in borrowed workers' clubs, please, who are moved by companies with employment relations which are not far from those of the slavery of the previous centuries. The banks - they told us one of their representatives - are borrowing staff from companies, satisfying their desire to employ non-university workers, not covered by a collective agreement, easily converted into part-time workers, being made redundant and re-entered on worse terms if necessary. In the bill that we are discussing today most of the fires and the uprooting - it came out of the Civic Opposition but also from the employer and from serious analysts of our reliable channels - it accepted the part that refers to the regulation of the status of workers in contracting companies. This provides for the workers to be co-responsible with the normal employers, i.e. the large companies which contractors supply with workers. So far, arbitrary and over-exploitation has been carried out because the contractor was hiding behind the contractor who did what he wanted, while in fact the over-profits of these practices were collected by this large "ma" company. It is now foreseen that the undertaking which commissions the project has the same responsibility to employees for wages, insurance contributions, compensation for redundancy if the contractor fails his obligations, which is very common even from companies which are dictated by the sense of corporate responsibility. In this middle ages it may be imposed in the past, but it cannot continue to be the present and the future of work. You will allow me here, Minister, to read a very small passage from your letter to your counterpart Austrian Minister for Labour, who tell her about rights, about our common future in work in Greece and in Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You say: "The fundamental rights of the eighth hour of collective bargaining, social security and solidarity are the foundations on which to build our common future. The Greek Government is wholeheartedly committed to supporting and extending these rights." Ladies and gentlemen, we have a road ahead of us. And this way we've carved him, we've started him. And we'll get him by the end of the day. And the end is not the end of the memorials. The end of the memorandum is the end of your own policy. For us, it is the beginning of a new period where we will "bomb you" with such laws, which will lead to regularity, dignity and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Papaliou, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard today that this bill is a slogan of provisions - a colleague has said'services' - without satisfaction. You're mistaken, ladies of the Officer's Representation. The bill under discussion is one of the two directions which, in our view, needs to be taken by regulating labour relations after years of memorial policies. This is the reintroduction of the protectionist dimension, the protectionist function of labour law, which had been cancelled during the monumental policies and had, in any case, been dehydrated. The second direction is the restoration of the collective nature of labour law, which had also been cancelled during the memoranda. In this context, in the first direction, the arrangements for this draft law aim to ensure the rights of insured persons, improve the position of workers in general, even gradual normalisation of the labour market and, in addition to social solidarity and the protection of the child, protect unaccompanied minors and migrants. In particular, in this draft law, arrangements are introduced to resolve insurance issues with a view to better service to insured persons, speed up procedures and solve chronic problems which affect insured persons with interest and surcharges and deprive them of social security rights. For the first time, the start of the pension entitlement for all persons insured in the ECA is uniformly regulated. In addition, the procedure for registering in ECA’s insurance records of those subject to the former primary agricultural insurance industry, the OGA, is simplified. Arrangements are introduced to deal more effectively with undeclared and imputed work. Undeclared work violates the basic rights of workers, is a retardant factor in the economy, distorts healthy competition between businesses, reduces public revenues and weakens the insurance system, undermining its ability to respond to its social mission. That is why the change in the fine's architecture is intended to strengthen the position of undeclared workers and bring justice into line with the employer's ability to comply, to systemify the framework of the sanctions imposed and, above all, to create jobs. The proposed arrangements assert the position of the undeclared worker by providing balanced incentives to both the parties themselves for a complaint to the relevant audit bodies of undeclared labour and to the side of infringing employers for their compliance. Also, this draft law introduces arrangements for more complete protection of workers employed by employers using the outsourcing method, i.e. by a contractor. It is now commonly the case that a firm's outsourcing to an external partner - a contractor, that is to say, another company that usually specialises in one or more sectors of the economy. Such work shall be carried out by workers who have an employer rather than the operator who has entrusted him with the performance of the work concerned, with the payment of a fee, which has an adverse effect on the rights of the workers. Thus, for the first time in this draft law, an integrated system of rules is introduced to establish the solidarity and the full responsibility of the contracting contractor and subcontractor towards workers in the performance of the contracted work by extending the scope of the protection of workers' rights. In addition, arrangements shall be made for the protection of apprentices and trainees in the event of the obligation to register in the computer system of all pupils, students and students who carry out practical or apprenticeships in enterprises, while at the same time a maximum number of students, students and students carrying out practical or apprenticeships in tourist enterprises is established. Provisions are also introduced to prevent the heat stress of workers during the summer and, in addition, to ensure compliance with working hours. In addition, arrangements shall be made to extend the scope of the employer's insolvency allowance to workers, to redefined the conditions under which the unemployed person retains the status of the unemployed and to monitor a programme of training or vocational training and to introduce transitional provisions for some deleted from the OAED unemployed’s registers and to define as an inconsistent with the one-off financial assistance granted by the OAED to subsidized or unemployed persons, which are particularly financially or otherwise tested. Finally, arrangements are introduced to extend the scope of the employer's insolvency allowance granted by the OAED and to redefined the conditions under which the unemployed person retains the status of unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a link to the Government's chain of legislative initiatives on the reintroduction of labour law in the legal system and the restoration of its basic task, the protection of the weak side of the workers' employment relationship. It was preceded by Law 4488/2017, whereby workers such as, for example, non-payment of wages by the employer as a one-sided change in terms of terms of employment, are also settled daily by the worker as a complaint of the contract of employment and therefore receive unemployment benefit, the employee can claim due wages through the issue of a payment order and other measures provided for in Law 4488, including exclusion from programmes and public funding of employers who systematically violate labour law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are not all minors, as some of the Vice-Presidents have said - 'they have no value' - and nonetheless they are not left-wing idealism or outdated shapes, as the Professional Opposition generally claims, which corresponds to the memorial policies and the field of work is identical to the extreme neoliberal policies of the right and the extreme right that have transformed the labour market into a working jungle. For Civic Opposition, work is not a component of growth, of the socially just productive reconstruction of the place, but a factor in gaining profits from the few at the expense of many, workers. This is also the dividing ideologic line between the New Democracy and SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, which is the most intensified way in the field of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. Mr Michaelides, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law by the Ministry of Labour, which undoubtedly serves the principles that we have set out politically, namely the protection of workers of all kinds of arbitrariness and distortions, the creation of a regulatory framework which not only halts the neoliberal deregulation policy followed by the previous governments, but which sets fair rules and shields the position of workers in the face of the post-mortem period in which the country enters, the protection of vulnerable groups, be they Greek citizens, refugees and immigrants, the election and reorganisation of the chaos of the social state that we inherited, which has operated against the citizens and especially the weakest of them. This bill recommends to many aspects of the organic continuity and further reinforcement of previous government laws which served these principles. I shall refer to some of his provisions in a selective way. Article 3 creates a framework which will allow tens of thousands of citizens and many professional groups to break the deadlock, as a result of their being subject to two insurance bodies. The free professionals who were active in rural areas found, due to the complexity and ambiguity of the legal framework, between the former GAAP and the OAU constitute such a category. This very positive provision establishes a procedure whereby various debts can be written off to insurers who have been unjustly and irrationally burdened, I would add these people. Articles 5 to 8 strengthen the current Government's legal framework for combating undeclared work, a field in which the Ministry has focused particularly on a proven success so far. The aim of these provisions is to change the architecture of the fine for undeclared work, which is essentially a reduction in the fine if the employer concludes a contract of employment with the worker. The amount of the discount is even proportional to the duration of the contract to be signed. The criticism that has been heard about an unenforceable measure or even charismatic, says a provision to employers is inappropriate for a number of reasons. Firstly, there is a discount on this fine already, as we know. What is changing - and is not important at all - is that this discount is now directly linked to the rapid re-entry of the worker and not to the rapid repayment of the fine. Secondly, the employer who employs undeclared workers will be re-elected by the Labour Inspectorate and, in the event of recurring, strict fines are provided for without any further discounts. Thirdly, it is becoming a strong incentive for the worker to denounce undeclared work. In addition to strengthening the position of workers, the deterrent nature of the measure as a whole is immediately strengthened. Fourthly, for the first time, retroactive insurance cover for undeclared workers is provided for for three months. Article 9 introduces for the first time an integrated framework for the co-responsibility of contractors and subcontractors towards workers in respect of compliance with hygiene rules, insurance contributions, compensation, etc. It is clear that the reactions to Article 9 are based on business, obviously, expressed through the foundations of neoliberal ideology. These interests are directly related to the high compression of labour costs in the Memorandums, a benefit which obviously does not require many known people to lose. These objections to a malfunctioning measure, apart from statements of business interests, are pretext and excessive. It is clear that this provision is essentially aimed at ensuring the legality and protection of workers in the various contracting companies. It is precisely this shield of legality and the end of immunity in a sector with established high violence that this provision is aimed at. Finally, let me refer to the third part, which deals with the framework for unaccompanied minors. I would like to highlight the recommendation of the Supervisory Board of Unaccompanied minors to the Ministry of Labour, which takes on the main supervisory role. Three electronic registers are being created to which I have not heard any reference being made and they are unaccompanied minors, professional Commissioners and a register of hosting unaccompanied minors. Prosecutors of minors and primarys shall only temporarily undertake the supervision of the minor, a project which the professional scholars are responsible for, and the work of which shall be specified in detail. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. For the first time in our country, the possibility of having minors living in semi-autonomous units is being established, but also of being placed in foster families. With these provisions, the best interest of the unaccompanied minor is clearly at the heart of his protection policies, while institutionally respecting the rights of two most vulnerable social categories, namely refugees and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u83	We're moving on with Mrs. Skoufa, SYRIZA MP. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, at times there are a number of things in the Chamber which would cause the laughter if they were not combined with tragic stories of people and the degradation of human beings. If anything else, that is to say, it is surprising that the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Vroutzis just now submitted to us a number of falsifications or deliberately selecting concrete statistics, not reflecting the totality of the truth and forgetting or disclosing the fact that wages in 2012 arrived at one night and with one single act of cabinet - I stress it - from EUR 751 to EUR 586 and EUR 511 a month for young people under the age of twenty-five years. It is an act of a cabinet, which, of course, was Mr Brutsi himself. From there on, however much the New Democracy and the rest of the parliamentary forces want to silence it, on 21 June we had a historic decision of the Eurogroup, as it has already been heard from the most official European lips, but also the International Monetary Fund and the cycle of assessment was irreversibly closed and a final solution was given for the first time in the time of the Memorandum of Understanding on the sustainability of the Greek debt and the self-powering access of Greece to the money markets. We are therefore closing down in a period of specific governance, PASOK, Echolons and ANELs, a chapter of eight co-chaired memorandum years, which the previous governments have failed to close, which had not successfully completed either the first or the second programme. Beyond leaving the memoranda, from the beginning, after the September 2015 elections, we committed ourselves to the Greek people to implementing policies to strengthen the great social majority from which we were elected and to which we are and will continue to belong as MPs, that is, policies to relieve the weak and oppressed layers and to support the world of work. This government with these MPs was the one through negotiation with partners managed, among other things, to ensure the integration of two and a half million uninsured fellow citizens into the National Health System, the recruitment of thousands of staff to our country's hospitals, the increase of the government budget line for social solidarity from 790 million to 1.5 billion in 2017 and 1,836 billion in 2018. It is this government that managed to reduce unemployment from 26% to 20% and, as they all show, in 2018 we will go below the 20% threshold, that is, we have four hundred thousand new jobs in four years. So in the new environment that is emerging for our country, we will be the ones to heal and a number of wounds that have been opened in the crisis, since August 21st, and then the domestic governments elected by the Greek people will be those who decide the means of politics to cover the agreed budgetary targets, which gives us the opportunity to draw up a different perspective, the vision of which should not be the return to the past, a past in which generalised corruption and tax evasion prevailed, unconscious lending, public enterprises, the furniture and antisocial abundance of the few. Our aim is a fair growth, that is to say, for the many and not for the few, naturally with the aim of strengthening social cohesion and boosting the country's development prospects. So, for us, real growth goes through support for work. Fair and sustainable growth means increasing wages so that workers can meet their basic needs and increase their purchasing power and, on the other hand, do not migrate the young scientists that our country makes abroad. In this direction, the Ministry of Labour has already committed itself to preparing by the end of the year, by the end of 2018, ten catalyst programs for eighty thousand young scientists, while at the same time our three guidelines, which are reflected in this bill, are: First, the reintroduction of collective labour agreements. Since the second assessment we have voted that, at the end of the third programme, i.e. August, the two main principles of collective labour agreements, namely the principle of the expansion of public contracts and the principle of more favourable regulation, are restored. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll need a minute too to finish. The fact that these two authorities are back, automatically means that in a number of sectors to be signed contracts we will have real wage increases and at the same time a number of measures to shield workers' rights. But we don't just get enough of this. Our second principle for supporting the world of work is an increase in the minimum wage. It has already been clearly reflected in the government's development programme that, with the end of the programme, we are finally moving towards an increase in the minimum wage. The third principle, which is reflected in the draft legislation, is to combat infringements and strengthen controls on the labour market. The reintroduction of collective agreements and the increase in minimum wages alone are not enough because, before the crisis, we had wounds, we had 'black' points leaving workers unprotected. For this reason and this bill continues the thread set by Law 4488/2017. I will close, ladies and gentlemen, by imprinting or trying to capture the two different political philosophies in two words. We in this government are laying down strict rules for the protection and enhancement of work, strengthening workers' negotiating power. On the contrary, the Qualifying Opposition speaks without a doubt, without shame, of an outdated working hour and about the supposed need to further elasticize labour relations. We, ladies and gentlemen, fight, fight for a world of defending individual freedoms and social rights. We don't press or close our eye to extreme right forces like Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u85	Mr Megloumoustakas, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again they come to the vote on bills, which are a string of unrelated issues. This particular draft law also concerns insurance provisions and comes to negotiate up to the committee system for unaccompanied minors. To avoid forgetting, it comes to regulating and confronting, according to your words, the great problem of undeclared work, which arises because of the economic crisis, an economic crisis that you continue with your policy. It is your government that continues the work of the previous governments and continues to plunge us into this crisis, despite what you say about the clear exit from the memoranda. We cannot understand why the issue of unaccompanied minors has not come to the relevant bill of the Ministry of Migration Policy, in particular the bill you voted on two months ago. This would surely show consistency and consistency in your government's policy, which, as you are proud, is a holistic approach government. I think that none of Greeks agrees with this view. With the first part of this bill, then, the government is only trying to correct the infinite unorthodoxness of the law - the looting of Mr Katrugalos. The first articles of the bill do make an attempt to harmonise the rules relating to the start of the right to pension but are fragmentary. We see the new regulation positively, that is to say, it will not be compulsory to stop the occupational status of starting retirement, and it is also positive that the possibility of deleting disputed debts, interest and surcharges created until 31 December 2016 at the expense of insured persons at the same time subject to two or more insurers. And that, while the insured person was in reasonable doubt of being subject to it or not to any body. But here again, we should wait for a minister's decision, without a clear timetable, which, while enjoying superpowers, will resolve the question of categories of workers, according to what is stated in the explanatory statement, and this, after a simple opinion that can be taken into account, may, however, not be taken into account by the Social Security Council. That is why Article 3 is incomprehensible. Why? Because a new ministerial decision should also be adopted for any question. We have stressed many times from the Step that we do not rule like this, with ministerial decisions. And all this is happening two years after the EKA was set up, and while we're still waiting to see this new social security agency functioning properly. The only thing you're doing is bringing in new patches. Unfortunately, your ballots are insignificant in front of the katrugalo and those who have succeeded in all twenty reductions in pensions and increases in contributions that you have voted on, ladies and gentlemen of the government. It would be a solution to reduce unprecedentedly high insurance contributions and not to unify the rules on systematic enforcement. In fact, you who so much love e-government, why can't you tell the retired people what the money will be that will be lost by abolishing the personal difference, which is likely to be - why have you voted - since the beginning of the new year? I have not heard any of your Members say it in the panels where he is present, but they only wish it would not. Of course, we all wish that, but you also have similar obligations. We now come to another point which we have raised in the debate in committee. We do not understand why your sensitivity, as you do with Article 4 and school guards, should be so selective. You are, on the one hand, exempting TAs that concern them from paying interest for certain debts, but on the other, you do nothing about what you promised from September 2016 at the ICU, i.e. the "bone" of the insurance debts of about four hundred thousand free professionals. We really know that, we know, we are sure of this, would immediately revive the Greek economy, as free professionals are the ones that make up her backbone. It is what we all want, to support small and medium-sized enterprises, to re-create the middle-class in Greece. It comes with the very rich and the very poor! In the second part you bring the notorious new architecture to impose fines on employers for undeclared work. Fines should generally keep a balance. On the one hand, they should dissuade the employer from wanting to outlaw them, but on the other hand, they should be proportionate in relation to the infringement and not excessively burden the small and medium-sized employers, bringing them to the edge of the cliff, on the verge of economic catastrophe. Because that is what a small- and medium-sized employer will face with such a fine when we have even seen comico-trag cases and have read to various media how these fines are imposed. And we are not talking about cases of undeclared and uninsured work, such as those that came in the light of publicity about blooming enterprises, for example Mykonos. We cannot legislate for all of Greece in terms of Mykonos. We are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises in the province of Athens, in island Greece, in mainland Greece, in Thessaloniki, in less tourist places, which have been kneeled by the crisis. It's not a solution to our problem. The solution, for us, to undeclared work is frequent controls a system of assessment of all infringements. In the second part, too, is the provision of Article 9 on the responsibility of employers for a job to a contractor or subcontractor. What are you doing here? Are you coming to do the benefit of a verifier? Your duty, the duty of the state what is it? Why do you transfer responsibility to others? Don't they have enough problems dealing with small and medium-sized people? They have, and you should know. In the third part of this bill concerning the particularly vulnerable group such as the unaccompanied minors, we find a handfulness and a legholding. Why are there no hosting structures available for about 65% of unaccompanied minors currently in our country, almost four years after the explosion of the migratory crisis? What are you doing to this day? You and your solidaritys, what are you doing? On the question of the committees referred to in Article 28, which will be responsible for the care of unaccompanied children, we also see your curiosity here. The qualifications and profile of professionals and committees to take care of unaccompanied children are not specified. The remuneration to be received, the appointing criteria and other relevant parameters of that provision shall not be defined. Everything is left to the adoption once again of a joint ministerial decision without a timetable for its adoption. That's how we don't rule. So we hear that some two hundred people will be hired for this work and, unfortunately, we fear that the choice of these people will not be merital, as is the case. It's a pathogen of the past. We're afraid it's another attempt by the government to suit your own, build a party clientele and thus strengthen your election campaign, since we're entering an election year. And why do we believe that? Because that's what you've always done, unfortunately. Fly ashes in the eyes with your so-called good intentions and from behind you are appointed, comfortable, giving benefits and all this with voting criteria. You are making a left-hand policy with the money - with what they have left - of the Greek citizens. Instead of helping the Greeks grow, stand at least financially on their feet, so that they can secure a living, hunt the living not only of his but also of those around him, you come and put your party as a priority. A problem is also the provision of Article 21 to assess the best interest of the unaccompanied minor. And this provision is vague and simply describes what you would like to do and not what the solution would be. We are in favour of launching a certified evaluation procedure, for what is best for this very vulnerable group, but we want to understand what the criteria will be and what the factors that will be taken into account for these important details, so that we too can take our place. We therefore have the establishment of a new Directorate for the Protection of Unaccompanied minors at the National Centre for National Solidarity with Article 27. More jobs. We also have the establishment of a supervisory board of three unaccompanied minors again by Minister's decision. You leave the doors wide open to appoint people of your own, convenient with photographic devices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall not need a minute, Mr President, beyond twelve minutes or two. We now go to the last place the other provisions, where they usually hide the real diamonds you bring to the House. The problem is the provision of Article 36, which allows the Minister concerned a huge and disproportionate margin of manoeuvre, in order to grant the right to use the OAED public property, i.e. without consideration for services and public sector bodies. It would be advisable to have some insurance regulations here to defend the public interest. That's what you should do. We also have Article 48, according to which the members of the Management Board of the EMCDDA are increased from seven to eleven, without explaining why. Finally, it is with Article 49 that your Government comes to retrospectively legitimise expenditure to various providers, without explaining to us what, to how many, and whether it is expenditure resulting from competitive procedures or direct awards. We refer to the amount of EUR 2.1 million, which you are talking about in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, for expenditure relating to the maintenance and expansion of the OPCWs - APRC, for the consumption of electricity and fuels and others. We cannot, gentlemen of the government, consent to such practices that leave all doors open for the purpose of committing smuggling from your Government. Understand that this is not how our Greece goes ahead. We cannot support a bill that does not solve the problem on its basis. We are not the ones who consent to a policy'solve what the mother-in-law sees'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u87	I would ask Mr Koutsouko, Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, to speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure and honour, taking the floor, of the honorable Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, who literally applies the law of her predecessor, Mr Katrugalos. Because I was listening to the majority rapporteur this morning, telling us how many times we cut pensions and how much we reduced pensions and tabled a note in the Minutes and a specific note, my dear colleague forgot to say that, with his two hands, like all SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues, he voted for the so-called Katrugalou Law, No.4387/16, which, ladies and gentlemen, is in force. Those who came out after 2016 have huge pension reductions. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And because our colleague told us that we were not telling the truth, he was obviously hiding the truth. For example, a high-wage IKA who came out with thirty-five years of pension, instead of 1,280 euros that we bad people gave him after the cuts, takes 154 euros less. That, you know, makes a pension less. An employee insured with thirty years of security, who we bad guys were giving him 1,007 euros, after the cuts took EUR 729 that is EUR 278 less, over two pensions. Oh, this is the fellow Member who was saying this this morning. A public graduate, a good time, since you have passed the idea that you are patrons of civil servants, with thirty-five years that we bad people after their cuts were giving EUR 1.322, now that we are talking about EUR 961, i.e. less than EUR 361 less than two pensions. A free professional lawyer insured on the Legal Fund who we bad guys gave with forty years 1,098 euros, takes 832 euros or 266 euros less than two pensions. Let's see those widows who sounded. A widow, ladies and gentlemen, who took EUR 1,053, will get EUR 563 less! A low pensioner who has not worked for more than fifteen years and is insured in IKA, was taking along with the ESS 716 euros and will get EUR 461 that is EUR 255 less. Let me tell you one example from a cleaner, since you had made it your flag. A cleaner, then, paid for the minimum wage of EUR 586 and with fifteen years of work, took EUR 607 from us bad people who were making cuts this morning, and now it takes EUR 470, 137 less a pension. And when the tax relief is applied, they'll lose another pension. This is therefore our comparison that we have destroyed the place and reduced the wages and pensions, compared to you that you would have given them the thirteenth pension. That's the situation. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do you question the examples? Should I testify to the Minutes to compare them? If you are questioning them, then ask your Minister now to send you the recalculations that hide them. Because old retired people are listening, of course, and they are making examples based on the new ones and they know what they are waiting for, but the paper on the seal has not yet been taken, because the Minister, despite her obligations under the law, does not do so to make fun of the world again. That's the hard reality. And, of course, because you do not read and vote with your two hands, I inform you that in the medium term you have voted and in the holistic programme of your government, pension expenditure from 17% today is expected to go to 12%. Do you know how much billions are to be deducted from pensioners? And I want you to compare them again on the basis of the analysis of your government's holistic programme with the cuts from 2010 to 2014. You know letters, as far as I know, and you can read them. So the reality is too hard and the government is going a thousand two ways to save the anger of the old pensioners whose pensions will be cut off. That's why he doesn't send the clearing agents, so he doesn't make the recalculations, so you're saying things. We have therefore made it simple: we have tabled a proposal for a law, and we have called on the President of Parliament to initiate the procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, in the General Accounting Office, to assess it economically and to bring it here, and if it does not like to amend it, so that retired people can no longer be retired. And because we know that you are working with the Bureau of Parliament, and as we have the other proposal for a law on the protection of the first residence that has never come here, and the proposal for a VAT law on the islands that have not yet come here, we have today tabled the proposal for a law which we have as an amendment to give you the opportunity to do a good thing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this game you're playing can't believe. We're at the theater of irrationality. You, who have voted for the pension cut, accuse the New Democracy of applying it. You who voted for the collective redundancies, accuse the New Democracy of applying them. You who voted for the lock out, you are leaving New Democracy for the neoliberal program and the break-up of industrial relations. You who transferred the application of collective agreements by three years as the old law provided for the end of the programme which expired three years ago and you did so for three years later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u89	Are you a representative of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u90	Don't make a fuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u91	Mr Colleague, I, when necessary, disagreed and voted against. And if you have the courage, do it once.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u92	I'm sorry, I'm confused!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u93	Do so once, when the critical rights of workers are at stake. However, you are voting here on what you are being brought 'insurmountable'. And then you blame the others. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone here assumes responsibility. And one last word, Minister: because I welcomed you to Manola and sent you a letter about what you did not say, I would like to say that when there was a racist incident about four years ago, Mrs Gennamata visited the region, a communication came out and procedures were opened and residence permits were granted to the victims of violence, and then these people found their right to the European Court of Human Rights. You have "shooted" with the request for the annulment of the decision and corrected it at the last minute. You have huge responsibilities because the process of legitimising foreign land workers and the bill does not say a single word and you have huge responsibilities because you and the Minister of Justice have not launched - the procedures for bringing the blame for this incident of violence against the land workers. That's all I had to say. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance, because I have had the opportunity to personally address Mrs Ahtsoglou in particular on the latter matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr Georgios Kasapidis, Member of the Kosanis of the New Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There is a lot of talk, ladies and gentlemen, about undeclared work in this draft law. There is a lot of good reason because it is an opportunity to get out of at least one of such important social problems from this legislative initiative by the Government for the sake of the place. I do not think anyone in this Chamber wants this problem to be solved definitively and irrevocably, in a simple and clear way that sends out clear messages to prevent and combat the phenomenon of undeclared work to both employers and workers. Of course, the debate so far has only been limited to the responsibilities of employers who do not want to secure their workers. Clearly, there are also such employers who, in order to reduce the non-wage costs of their businesses, resort to such unfair practices. But at the same time because their balance sheets do not show the cost of insurance and, by extension, the payroll of these workers - partly or wholly - necessarily have great profits. The next move is to avoid the emergence of these profits to avoid taxation, and especially as imposed by the current government, which is so high and unbearable. So those who ultimately lose are the public, the public funds, the insurance funds, mainly from tax evasion and undeclared work, but also from tax evasion and the para-economy. These phenomena together with corruption and complexity, unfortunately, are the chronic scourges of our national economy, which at the same time consume the flesh and the Greek society. In this area, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the results of your efforts are unfortunately poor. Despite the great words and commitments, no tangible results have been achieved so far, neither for the infamous sea-loans nor for the undeclared incomes of offshore companies nor for the tax evasion of fuels or for the greedy economy. To deal with such phenomena, it is only certain that sincere dialogue and consensus are needed. At the initiative of the government, which will not serve any communication purposes, but seriously and responsibly, to finally find the common task of controlling and combating these chronic social wounds. One of these is undeclared work - and in particular in the agricultural sector - as was pointed out by the previous colleague, Mr Koutsoukos. In the prefecture of my colleague, and more specifically in Manola, we have witnessed extreme situations years ago. He informed us about the latest developments. Some measures were taken at that time, but the phenomenon of the black labor of land workers is likely to flourish in recent years. In this direction, high taxation, combined with increased social security contributions to agricultural income, encourages employers to unfair practices. Also for workers on earth - especially for land workers - decisively contribute to undeclared work, Minister, and the criteria for social solidarity income and the lack of controls and control mechanisms for work in the agricultural sector. Together with the total lack of development and reconstruction plan in the primary sector, this is growing. With regard to the country's development perspective - and especially in the agricultural sector - a great deal of evidence that there is not even a plan, it is the amendment tabled by the Ministry in this draft law on extending the implementation of the tactical programme and the settlement of bureaucratic responsibilities in July, and since June we should have the application of the tactic. If, therefore, for the national agricultural product, olive oil and olive oil, that is what you are looking after to farmers. Farmers who want to find land workers, unfortunately, find it hard to convince them to work in their fields for various cultivation operations or for harvesting the crop, when they tell them that they must be insured, because they must state these costs in their tax declaration too. Most land workers call for the loss of income criteria for the social income of solidarity, ranging from EUR 1,200 for single-person households to EUR 3,000 for households with four adult workers. Moreover, by further reducing duty-free the effects of undeclared work will be further intensified. The consequences will be tragic. Huge loss of income from the insurance funds, distortion of healthy competition in the production and marketing of agricultural products, and a burden of agricultural income with a tax on expenditure paid and not declared. Everyone loses, that is. It is a vicious circle that is self-supported by the government's tax policy to the detriment of taxpayers, and the state, finally, which will be forced to look for extra revenue with new taxes, for the citizens who will resort to these allowances and will constantly increase. Even many of the farmers will be caught in the vulnerability of this subsidised and not productive policy being implemented. There are solutions, as long as you want them, you can hear them and understand them, Minister. Firstly, a reduction in taxes and social security contributions in the agricultural sector and in all areas, where the procedures that you are now trying so complicated and with a great effort to describe them in the bill will be simplified. Reduction of insurance contributions and taxation. Apply the principles of agricultural accounts, as is the case throughout the world, in the agricultural sector. Treat the agricultural profession as productive rather than as a trader. Second package of proposals. Beneficiaries of the social solidarity allowance shall be entitled to a documented invoicing, such as those insured in the OGA who do up to a hundred and twenty days outside OGA, or those who are unemployed up to seventy days without losing their status. Thirdly, it establishes imputable economic living criteria for foreign land workers by crossing their residence and work permits in relation to their tax declaration. These are some measures which if they are implemented cumulatively or in part, they will certainly make a decisive contribution to addressing and further reducing undeclared work in particular in the primary sector. I emphasise, Minister, that part of work in our country, because estimates say that there are over three hundred to four hundred thousand uninsured workers in the primary sector. Do you not want this revenue from the contributions that are lost? Do you not want to appear as unemployed workers in order to further reduce these unemployment rates? So let us be serious about this problem. Finally, one point I wanted to raise - and I told you in committee, Minister, - concerns western Macedonia and the operation of the ECA, of farmers in western Macedonia. It is the only periphery of the country that has no office of farmers, because under the Katorugalou law, while there was a structure, not fully staffed, which could be completed by your own intervention, you have, in essence, preferred to deceive it and transfer the obligations to Athens. This has led to 38% of the population of western Macedonia not being properly served for these services and to resort to the services of Athens, which - as you well know - is a long delay resulting in the suffering of farmers in western Macedonia. And because I had tabled a question on this since December 2017 and, unfortunately, you did not answer me, Minister, I would like to present it again, did it refer to the Ministry's drawers or did not give it the appropriate importance that we in western Macedonia would like. It is a burning issue for us, and we believe that within and from the primary sector we can have hope and perspective in our region, to keep the world, to find employment, employment, young people and produce wealth. It is something that we all clearly want, but you do not give the proper seriousness. [[At this point, Mr Georgios Kasapidis presents for the minutes the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to welcome the amendment we tabled as the New Democracy to prevent pension reductions. It is something that you too want and document through the improvement of the economic results of your policy. Here, therefore, is Rhodes, here and now, to vote in favour of this amendment either of the New Democracy or of other factions which have tabled it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. Parliamentary and Vice-President of Parliament Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad during the period from 16 July 2018 to 23 July 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u97	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ms Karasarlidou, Member of the Imathia of Syriza, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u98	Colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing a draft law which concerns and will benefit hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. These are regulations protecting workers' rights, shielding labour legislation, ensuring the rights of insured persons and protecting unaccompanied minor applicants, namely children who are alone. We have been working intensively since the beginning of our governance to overthrow many previous policies, which a large part of society has pushed it into the working middle ages, into a working jungle. The fact that we are working on this, we have also proved it with the bill brought by the Ministry of Labour in September 2017 and voted here, which had a series of new legislative tools to combat undeclared, implied and unpaid work. The draft law we are debating today follows exactly the same path. More specifically, the first and second part contain provisions on the effective treatment of undeclared and undeclared work, the fuller protection of workers and, of course, it solves chronic insurance issues. Colleagues, there are too many people in our country who have worked but have not been extinct, who have been made redundant without receiving compensation, who have never taken their names, who have never taken their hours. With this draft law we are trying to put brakes on the chaos of infrastability which, unfortunately, prevails in our country. It is a pity - and I would like to say this from this step forward - that the Civic Opposition seems to have failed to understand - unless it is its objective, and then it must clearly say so to society - the consequences of its actions in this area and continues to say in favour of greater flexibility in the labour market, to mark the eight-hour 'extended' hour, to say that it does not want and will not bring these collective agreements and that it will introduce private social security. For these reasons, I believe that these interventions are more necessary than ever, because they are strengthening the position of workers and protecting them, to a large extent, from practices of employers' immunity and from neoliberal policies which, in fact, turn us very far back. I should like to mention Articles 3 and 5, because I believe that these are typical examples. Article 3 provides for the possibility of deletion of debts or interest on insured persons, for which there was doubt as to whether they had to be insured in parallel insurance. This article provides a way out to many of our fellow citizens, who have suddenly discovered that they owe great surpluses in many cases and cannot retire from their main fund, for which they have been paying for their entire lives. Article 5 on administrative penalties for undeclared work, except for the imposition of a fine of EUR 10,500, provides for a resumption of the employer, this fine is to be imposed by a 100% increase for the first following the initial infringement and up to 200% for each subsequent infringement. Part three includes provisions that introduce more integrated intervention in favour of unaccompanied children in our country. Hundreds of thousands of children suffer the tragic consequences of war in their country. Many children stay orphans and try to survive alone in a foreign society for them, in a foreign environment, in a foreign country. Unfortunately, with the increase in migration and refugee flows, according to Interpol, a pan-European criminal structure aimed at refugees has been created. In this Chamber we all know that ten thousand children are currently missing in Europe, which is the most vulnerable category of refugees, because they are at greater risk of violence, abuse, neglect and trafficking. It is therefore planned to appoint a Commissioner for each unaccompanied child, its responsibilities are defined, a Supervisory Board of Unaccompanied minors is established, a hosting centre for unaccompanied minors, the Register of Unaccompanied minors and the Register of Professional Commissioners is established. There is also provision for the possibility of entrusting these children to foster parents. Our aim is to create an integrated protection framework focusing on the safety and the minimum needs of these children. Colleagues, we are working to create a new model of growth with smaller social inequalities. We are also working on the redefinition of labour rights. This proposal for a law shields the rights of the world of work with the ultimate aim of ensuring human dignity. But, as I have said before, it creates a web of protection for all the children of war, which seems to have been forgotten. For all these reasons, I think it is the duty of all the political forces to support and vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u99	Thank you to Mrs Karasarlidou and the consistency in time. There is a desire from all the Members to end today. So we should be precise in our time. Mrs Anastasia Christododoulopoulos, Member of the SYRIZA State, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u100	I should like to begin by mentioning the fact that the government has been trying - with various reforms, in my opinion or ours - to relieve the victims of the crisis and the victims of the memorandum. Two of the most comprehensive reforms made by the government were the reform of free insurance - social and health care - to all the insurers in our country and the second was the regulation of social solidarity income. With these two flagrant reforms, the government has tried to stimulate the rights of the socially weak, to organise a social protection net, to safeguard their dignity and everyday life, and, of course, to show the class-shape it has for these categories of people. I am saying this because I believe that today's bill also has this relevance, because it is mentioned and seeks to protect the socially weak ones again. Who are these socially weak, insecure workers? We should, in fact, talk about them, because they are the people who have no voice, who are not in trade unions, who are not represented by most of the parties in this House, and one needs to convey their voice, to transfer their anxiety, to the degrading everyday life they experience. Because insecure workers are invisible, they are consumable, they are out of all protection rules, they are without rights and they are trying to survive. At the same time, however, they are incriminated, because they feel that their suffering is a personal failure. And they are also framed, because they cannot resist the humiliation of the labour force. So in such mental, political and social complexity the government today appears to try, pursue, attempt, attempt some protection measures. One could say that it is not possible for these measures to deal with the phenomenon. He could criticize it for being very ambitious. He could say: 'Take these additional measures as well'. Unfortunately, however, we do not see such a type of debate going on again in this House. On the contrary, we see that everyone is making use of the fact that they have tabled a number of draft laws, which seek to prevent pensions from being reduced and tax-free. Yes, sir. So let's get into this terrible field. Why, ladies and gentlemen, since you considered it important, did you not testify to these draft laws before? Why are you filing them now, which has made it clear that the government is studying, planning, seeking to prevent what has been voted on under the particular pressure we all know? You were all waiting - indeed like the crows - for the government, in fact, to reduce pensions, in fact, to reduce duty, and you, in the election period, to collect goodwill from the criticism of the government. And now that you see the government is studying it, what are you doing? Push with the plans of law, share some success with what may happen. This is therefore a major issue. What exactly do you want? Are you interested in the socially weak? Are you interested in retired people? Are you interested in the people who are taxed while having a petty income? I won't stay what you've done, because I'm really tired of this conversation. And I saw it today: "Who has reduced pensions", "Who has reduced them more", "How many times", "so...". It's tiring. The point is, we're talking about people poor, not about idiots. So we have to think that what we say is heard by these people. And they're people thinking, they're experiencing daily torture and they're waiting for something from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u101	That's what we're saying. We say it because people understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u102	That is not what you say, Mr President. You say it because you think that with fireworks and social sensitivity displays, you can overthrow the image you actually have give to this world. I would therefore like to say that, in fact, the government is aiming to protect this category of workers, to lay down certain rules on the defective labour market, to give these people rights without rights, to stimulate social security, and to prevent the influence of the far-right on this category of workers. Why, ladies and gentlemen, that is the risk. That this category of people, with the desperation in which they live, attracts or is affected by extreme right-wing theories of antisystemism, and there is a risk that these people will be influenced by the extreme right ideology, forget the whole history of the struggles of previous years and centuries and cannot be proud of today's situation, which the attack on them is appalling. I would therefore like to see, on the basis of these objectives, the measures proposed. I believe that they are measures that can be attributed, because, in fact, employers must understand - and the small and the medium-sized ones, because the big ones are trying to adapt to legality - that it is not their own economic situation to crush workers. And I would like to remind you here that this is not the prerogative of Greece for the memorial workers. There are all over the world in all developed countries. According to statistics, precarious workers are 1/4 of the working population. Do you understand what a charge we're talking about? And how were they produced? They weren't produced by neoliberal policies? Have they not been produced by policies that prejudge profits against social needs, which prejudge the few against the many? Was it why SYRIZA has thought of not doing anything? And the left-wing criticism, Mr Colleague, that you did before, is almost unrealistic. What do you think? That SYRIZA has taken authority, that there has been some revolution and despises the workers? Elections took place and we got 30% more. Do you think that with this force within this timeframe of neoliberal globalisation, increasing the extreme right, a Europe ruthless, will SYRIZA come to solve all the problems of working class and class? Instead of commending the effort we are making, instead of saying good enough that with these measures some people will be protected, also criticized in this war? However, are we declaring a draft law to prevent pensions from being reduced? Can't we finally be a little honest with what's going on, be a little bit in reality? I think that the world, which does not understand what is happening, is now being irritated by your attitude. What do you want? What do you want? Constantly confirm the criticism you're making, that we're memorials, that we've become memorials to sit in the chairs, that we insist on being here, why don't we want to leave the chairs? Is it possible that the political reason could have fallen so well? While you guys who want the chairs, are you consecrated? In other words, you have no relevance to your political speech. You want the chairs so badly? Why would they give them to you? What do you give to give them to you? Your past? Your present? Your future? What exactly? At some point we need to talk to common sense in here, because we are completely out of order. I would like, therefore, to finish, because I have been abusive in time, to say that, today, this bill is trying to make a cut. Anyone who undermines it or does not vote for it gives an alibi to all these contractors and subcontractors, to all these "wild" employers, to violate the rights of these people. Don't forget that. And because, of course, time has come to an end and I cannot talk about a matter that I know most of all, which is the commission of the unaccompanied minors of the extreme victims of the refugee crisis, I would like to praise the Ministers for this initiative. Because at this juncture when we see that Trump and his policy divides children from their families with hatred for the soul and the child, which is an invisible enemy for the future, while we see all the so-called sensitive European leaders denying the family reunification of young children with their families, I would like to say that it is emphatic that we are trying through the commission to rescue these innocent victims of war, innocent victims of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mrs Christodoulou. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs. Theano Fotio, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, if I may, I would just like to make a request.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u105	Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u106	There are several amendments and parliamentary amendments. It would be very good for us Members to know which amendments the government will accept so that we can prepare for the end of the meeting as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u107	That's right. I hope it happens. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u108	We'll announce them. Mr President, the portfolio of social solidarity within the Ministry of Labour deals with the protection of children, deals with children at risk of poverty, poverty, children throughout the world, children from other countries and children. Shall I start ours? I shall start from our own children, then, who have suffered a terrible crisis of their own worse than adults, the crisis of poverty, the crisis of material deprivation. You know very well that these days have come out of ELSTAT's 2017 data -- not in the year 2017, with incomes of 2016 -- and we at least gave us a breath. And since you're very fond of numbers from what I saw today in Civic Opposition, I'll tell you what, too. The child poverty in Greece has decreased by 2.1 points since 2015. We received her at 26.6%. What does that mean? It means 26.6% of children are in poverty. This meant 2015 with incomes, of course, 2014. What does ELSTAT say today? It says that in 2017 with incomes of 2016, in two years of governance SYRIZA, child poverty decreased to 24.5%, i.e. 2.1 points below.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u109	The same thing is about one in four.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u110	I see that doesn't excite you. Me neither. But wait a minute. What does that mean? Do you understand at all what that means? It means that only by the law to combat the humanitarian crisis - only by this law in two years' time - because we still had not done either the CRL that Mrs Christodoulopoulos said or the hundred and fifty thousand school meals - we put two units down to child poverty. But how long have you guys been swinging my finger at the seasons of prosperity in 2008? It was 23%. What do you think of that? So I am telling you here today that this time of year - here we will be going to talk about it again, here we will be anyway - we will have dropped child poverty to 21%, not 23%, which was the seasons of your well-being. Why? Because we're taking care of the kid. Do you know what that means? Care for the child means a hundred and fifty thousand warm school meals every day. The ones you swept through. Today is five hundred thousand. In 2019-2020 all primary schools in Greece will have school meals warmly. Care for the child means a hundred twenty - thousand children free of charge to nurseries today, when in 2015 we received only seventy - eight thousand. 2019-2020 will be a hundred sixty-five thousand children for free. Childcare means establishing four hundred young daycare facilities this year and a thousand eight hundred per year in 2019-2020, means increasing creativity centres, CSR, for children and, in particular, for children. It's Articles 59 and 60 of the bill. Please vote on them. Today the National Adoption Adoption Board meets for the first time. We voted for it a month ago. You told me it would take months to start the implementation. So here we go. Today is the first step at 5 o'clock to find the children a warm hug and leave through the foundations. Article 62 of today's bill provides for a mother who has no identity, identities, the legal procedure required not to take away her child and put it in the institution, as it has so far been. Please vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said it and I will say it again. For our Government, children of independent colour, religion, nationality are the highest priority, because children are our hope. Today's bill negotiates the most vulnerable group of children in the world, unaccompanied refugee, minor children trying to save themselves from wars, poverty, violence, orphanans. They arrive in Greece without accompanying or separated from their family. This bill in these articles is a great and serious step towards both the refugee issue and child protection for our country. You have heard it from international and Greek bodies during the consultation, such as the High Commissioner, the Counselor of the Child, the social protection centres of children, children of HEIs, such as "Mother" and so on. The Greek Parliament today has a great opportunity to state by its vote that it is on the right side of history. I explain the whole planet today is faced with an unprecedented modern movement of populations that divides humanity. This is not a short-term crisis but a chain reaction that now has permanent features. Europe, you know, is divided into two camps. In what forms humanity, solidarity, social justice, the principles of law and the one that elevates walls by incubating division, xenophobia and racism and ultimately the disintegration of Europe. You 'inhabited Europe' take good care, because that is the dissolution of Europe's essence. I believe that we all here, at least we, want a common European solution for the refugee problem. We do not want Greece to find itself isolated in the management of this huge issue. I believe - I want to have this faith - that no one here except for one wing, for the other part, wants that. No one wants to find our country isolated in this history, despite the fact that I even heard the President of the New Democracy speak of closed borders, in fact, with those who are working on the country's isolation. Ladies and gentlemen, the commission for unaccompanied minors is based on the best interests of the child, as defined by international conventions, European directives and the Greek legal system. In order to ensure this best interest, three institutions are introduced: firstly, the Permanent Commissioner, secondly, the Supervisory Board and thirdly, the Directorate for the Protection of Unaccompanied minors in the ECA. How many unaccompanied minors are today in Greece? I heard what you're reading from the evidence published by the EKKA. First of all, we should say that the latest data from the National Centre for Social Solidarity was on June 30, 2018. The figures it publishes are based on a reference system. There are no records of minors, what we are doing now with the comitology, and there is no system for the monitoring of the minor, what we are doing now with the law on the comitology. He just has a reference file. This means that the same child may be referred back several times. In this record, then, of the EKK's three and a half thousand children who appear as unaccompanied minors - all of you here mention - the thousands of two hundred and fifty eight children are nowhere to be found. The EKRD says it: three hundred forty-five we do not know where it is. Six hundred thirty-four are in'strength', that is, we still don't know where it is. Two hundred and seventy-nine are in informal housing. Of these two, twenty-two are with their families, they are with their relatives, so they are not counted. A total of two hundred and fifty eight children aren't found. What does that mean? Does it mean they exist, that they exist in Greece? No, ladies and gentlemen. It could mean they're gone. So I can tell you today that what exists and is fully recorded and certified is two thousand four hundred unaccompanied, of which a thousand thirty are hosted in hostels. So we say that immediately we have to house the rest. What are we doing? Seven hundred fourteen will be housed immediately, because they are in protective custody, reception and identification centres and open hosting centres. This is all to be sorted out immediately. So what do we do now? We are establishing four hundred sixty new posts in cooperation with the International Organisation for Migration, the Immigration Organisation. Secondly, in welfare buildings or in social protection centers where there are abandoned, unaccompanied - say so - Greekopoulos, we open a hundred twenty places in Epirus, Pogonian, Konitsa, Zitsa, Amphilochias and two hundred fifty places in Volos, Athens, Piraeus, in collaboration with the Ministry of Defence. Let's look at the provisions more thoroughly. In particular, I will tell you how the whole process will be, so everyone can understand it. Once the child comes to Greece, his minority and identity must be established immediately. It usually states "I'm like this, I'm so old". It can be seen from a great debate that is taking place with experts who are underage. Recorded. Immediately a temporary commissioner shall be seized by the judge of the judiciary. Where there's no juvenile prosecutor, he's the P.O.D. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time. I don't understand what the JRC says we're having court proceedings. I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u111	That was another conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u112	What's the D.A. doing today? The Public Prosecutor shall be his temporary commissioner. Immediately thereafter, he states to the National Centre for Social Solidarity where the child should go. And when he finds a place from EKKA, then the people who have this structure that the child is going to bring - NGO says, of course, the NGO or the social protection centre that we are talking about, because there too we have children - they pick it up and take it to the place where he stays. What's changing? First, as soon as the child is recorded, he shall obtain an electronic file kept in the ECAI. So he keeps track of his course and what time will it be reunited. Secondly, the institution of the permanent Commissioner is being introduced. What's that? We believe that the child should not have a commissioner in the centre in which he lives, because the child may have complaints and should not be served, so his best interests are not served. That is why we believe that the Commissioner should not be the same as those who have the structure. So why is the JRC wrong when it says that we need to have state bodies, where the commissioners are? Because the child has a flow. Sometimes a lot of kids come in, sometimes they don't. So the positions allocated throughout Greece are not stable. However, there must be records of Commissioners throughout Greece, not appointed civil servants, because they cannot move and suddenly go to Kalamata. Where the child lives, where the child enters, there must be his commissioner, for every week he will see it and every week he will make an electronic report, as this law says. So there's got to be a record. Will the record be serious? Of course, we do. We will issue a notice to the EKKA, we will set out criteria for who we get, we will train them, they will be examined and whoever they succeed, they will be written in the registers. Do you understand why we're talking about the best interests of the child? And finally, there will be a third electronic register where all the roofs are all over Greece. Because, today when a child leaves a roof, this is not immediately mentioned anywhere. We've got to keep an eye on the kid. This system with the EKKA address - it is the third institution I have said - is necessary to really have the protection of the child. Of course, its materials, its living, its clothes, everything, are secured in the structures in which they live. I really want - to finish, because I've taken a lot of time - to show this generosity that it takes. You've all understood the bill. You cannot, especially today, vote for the best interests of children, who are the most unprotected, most vulnerable in the world. The children of the whole world are our children. And as a wonderful verse says, "If the child escapes, there is hope".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister. The speech is made by MP Thesprotia of the New Republic, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening with great interest to all my fellow Members, with no exception, to the key issue that we have been concerned with over the last period, not to cut pensions from 1-1-2019. So no one wants these pensions to be cut. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is an important opportunity for all of us to support and vote for the amendment brought by our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our whole parliamentary group to abolish pension cuts from 1-1-2019. It is a major issue that has been so unfairly voted on by today's conflict. It is an issue that has become the major discussion issue in recent years. This is how we respond substantially and clearly to the accusations of Mr Tsipras and all the others that the New Democracy and President of Kyriakos Mitsotakis would like these cuts to be cut. Until she traveled to Germany she made and begged Merkel not to cut pensions. Oh, my God. It is therefore an amendment which simply says 'come all to vote together that pensions will not be cut.' So if you have the courage, come and vote for either our proposal, or Mrs Gennamas or any other proposal is intended not to cut pensions, to really prove who is a hypocrite in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, for a government which has failed on the fronts of the economy, national affairs and reforms it is expected to want to make a difference on social issues, where it considers that it can show its social sensitivity and which are closer to its so-called left ideology. And here, in the bill we're discussing, even in what could make a difference, it's finally doing half the jobs. In insurance it continuously patches the holes that have created the chaos of the EKA. It makes some technical improvements, but it does not really solve problems of retired and older people who are dying. At work he wants to protect the workers, but eventually he leaves them to every fine employer. The refugee is making plans on the paper that is uncertain they will work. That is what is happening, ladies and gentlemen. I will give some examples of the insurance provisions. It is not just that, despite any corrections, we have not yet achieved uniform procedures for the insured of all the integrated funds. It is that these corrections have problems. Temporary start of insurance in the OGA is likely to lead at some point to overturns and new delays, which are to be paid literally and transported by the insured. There is no provision for reimbursement of the double contributions paid by the persons insured in two funds or for their netting with current or future debts, nor is there an explicit provision for deletion of debts to the former OAU, which have poorly been charged to the members of the former OGA, of professional farmers who have had one and a small commercial activity. Apart from these gaps, however, they remain without a solution and some other problems that challenge the very logic of social security and undermine confidence in it. For example, this time we have not been given an answer to what is going to happen to our elderly fellow citizens who today cannot receive a pension. Because while they have paid insurance contributions for a year longer than they need to establish a pension right, and while they have exceeded the retirement age limit, they cannot receive a pension because they owe more than EUR 20,000. It is a problem that you can solve and do not do and let you have a full legislative arrangement proposed by the Citizens' Counsellor. We also told the committee that a reduction in the fine should be balanced on three conditions: to ensure as far as possible a job, to give a stimulus to not repeating an employer's misconduct, to take into account the very difficult position of businesses, especially the smaller ones, because of overtaxation and the lack of liquidity. With the discount provided for in the quarterly and six-monthly contracts, you become a supposed left-wing government that gives the employer the opportunity to save money, leaving the worker unprotected. If you want to help employers, you can alleviate the obligations of those employers who in the recent past have complied with labour legislation and have so far kept specific jobs, giving them a retroactive discount since they hired at least ten months or a year of undeclared employee who has been caught in their business since then. In short, help employers properly and do not load other financial and administrative burdens without cause and effect, as you do with the responsibility of the entrepreneur to the workers who have been hired and employed. Because that is the way you can also be a premium for inconsistent, transgressive or malicious employers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For a minute, you will allow me to say about the refugee situation in the framework of and the supervision and comitology of unaccompanied minors. Here you do the same thing for which we have criticised you in previous bills. First, Ministerial Decisions without a binding time limit. More generally, the time factor is left in the flush. Secondly, new services and institutions with one another's responsibilities confusing, and these in turn are involved with responsibilities of other services that are already in operation. Thirdly, a debatable description of roles and procedures for the committee's institution. All this, Minister, is serious gaps that make us agree with the Economic and Social Committee when it says that the provisions on unaccompanied minors are of doubtful effectiveness. There is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and in this piece of legislation handshake and fragmentation. And there are some of the other provisions to add a little bit of micro-political and the recognition of the Association of Industrial Workers of Northern Greece as an equal social partner and the gifts to social enterprises, which alter their character and their mission: by housing in public buildings in exchange for no consideration, by abolishing the minimum wage bill as a percentage of turnover and by dramatically reducing the fines for members who exploit favourable arrangements in order to benefit them financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Mrs. Helen Stamatakis, SYRIZA Pireos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today comes with the announcement of the end of the budgetary adjustment programme, the hard Memorandum of Understanding and creates a shield of protection for the people of work, with a series of important interventions and insurance regulations, protecting workers' rights and vulnerable groups. In the years of the crisis and the memorials, undeclared, uninsured work, contractors, a form of work that the years of the crisis had taken great proportions, depriving both the workers of conquests and the insurance funds of much of their income. Today we face undeclared work with strict fines and create an incentive for the worker to claim his work rights, but also for the employer to carry out the recruitment, as this will only have a reduction in the fine. In particular, if within 10 days of the check and find the uninsured worker the employer hires him under a full-time work contract, the fine of EUR 10,500 shall be reduced to EUR 3,000 according to the contract and the duration of the contract. There are also strict restrictions on a number of employers' facilities and, for the first time, specific rules are laid down in the contractor scheme, while at the same time guaranteeing workers' insurance and wage rights. For the first time, it is also foreseen that the responsibility for violating labour and insurance legislation lies not only with the employer, but also with the company which has accepted his services. Ladies and gentlemen, we all remember the case of Constantine Kuneva. Her employment rights have reclaimed and paid them very dearly. She was blackmailed, abused, her health destroyed. However, it has surfaced and the conditions and conditions of these forms of work have been known. With these actions we are laying the foundations for further reduction of undeclared work, which in particular in the summer months in the tourist regions is very increased. We have already achieved, with targeted controls and fines to employers, to reduce the rate of recorded undeclared work from 31.61% in 2013 to 12.48% in 2017. Also, this draft law regulates outstandings and simplifys the procedure for registering farmers in ECAI’s insurance records. The suffering and delays in the OGA for farmers who needed a lot of documents, some months to collect them and then waited for their results for some years, which led to the deprivation of basic social security rights, such as access to health care. They are also guaranteed by this bill the rights of the unemployed participating in training programmes and until now, if they were to join a training programme, they have lost their rights. It also sets out financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises that are citizens of third countries and stay in our country, and they will have equal rights as well as our own citizens. Part of the Ministry of Health's property comes to the Ministry of Labour for socially beneficial and privileged purposes. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, also creates a protection shield for a very sensitive group of unaccompanied children. The protection of unaccompanied minors is an obligation of every European state. Our country on a global level has shown the way to solidarity. When other countries closed the borders Greece played the role of guardian of the European Union's founding values, defending solidarity and peace among peoples. This bill, therefore, is a section because it creates an entire protection mechanism for every child and teenager who reaches the Greek territory away from his family environment. Each child shall be registered in the electronic register of minors held by the National Centre for Social Solidarity and the State shall ensure that applicants who are most at risk of abuse, neglect, violence, exploitation and marketing are protected. A Commissioner is appointed and, in a number of various supervisory boards, which the Minister has described very carefully, and I do not want to repeat them, a system of committee and supervision is being established on the basis of which the state is aware at every moment of the situation and the development of every child. All articles in Part III shall be governed by the fundamental principles of the rights of the child. The Commissioner therefore ensures that any unaccompanied minor child is given the same protection as that enjoyed by all children on Greek territory. Each child has the opportunity to develop interesting and personality, to express himself freely, to play in the playground, to live his or her age, to run, to laugh, to study in schools, to work when his or her time comes. Children, regardless of color, religion, ethnicity, are a priority for our Government. We must ensure for all children a safe environment because, as has already been said, the laughter of children, the voices of children give life to society, is the hope of this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Rabbit, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u118	First of all, we must stress that the fact that illegal immigrants who have come to our home country have equal rights with the Greeks is not in fact the case - we know very well - because illegal immigrants have far more rights than Greeks. They have a free house, they get allowances, we pay them the electricity, we pay them the water. Let's get this straight. So if there is a racism in Greece, it is the racism experienced by our Greek fellow citizens. We then want to say that we are listening to the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict and to say how the insurance will be solved, which has, of course, reached this mess - to be honest - the New Democracy and PASOK government, who have ruled for some forty years around our homeland and have reached it one step before the disaster, if not in the final disaster. So you come now and make a very friendly effort to finish it. And good for you, you'll make it the way you're going, if you haven't already done it. You're talking about how the insurance will be solved. But, first of all, how can it be solved when there are one or two workers at the moment who have to cover the insurance contributions and cover the pension of about fifteen retired people? How can this be done? It can't be done. So, you need to take care of how it should be done to ensure that there are sustainability in business, that there are Greeks who will work to create the chain properly and in the way it needs to be done. Instead, you and by stepping on the economic crisis in which you have brought our country and the Greeks together, look at how you will replace Greece's labour potential by illegal immigrants, who have thrown the cuts at a tragic level. They once told us about Bulgarian and Romanian wages, we were talking about it, and no one really believed it. We were told by ourselves and the time has come when what the Golden Dawn said has proved to be very right, unfortunately for Greek citizens. In Part II of the bill, Articles 5 to 12 states that there must be some fines for employers who do not comply with the insurance obligations for employees. You're right about that, that's what it must be. There must be fines for employers who do not cover their employees, but there must also be an extra incentive and a reward to these employers who will have exclusively Greeks in their jobs, so that we can increase and enable the Greeks to work better and be rewarded as we have said. Also, in Part C, Articles 13 to 32 refer to the commission of unaccompanied foreign minors. We see with how much care you care for their living conditions to be better. Of course, that's what we want. We don't want any children, no minors going badly, we don't want them to get hurt, it's a shame for all people, and of course we need to help. But, in order to get to the point where we can help, we should first of all look at the Greeks who are flying, look at the Greeks, who are left by their parents at various institutions, because they are unable to raise them, look at the Greeks, who are undernourished to a very large extent rather than get to the point of saying that the state will come and give an orangeade and a sandwich to the children who go to school and high school, and that will solve the problem. The government must - and it must - ensure that Greeks have jobs to live in dignity for their families and their children. So let the government look at the basics for the Greeks, let them see how this "haemorrhage" of the Greeks, especially young people, will stop from leaving abroad. Because you are interested in illegal immigrants, who come from every corner of Africa, but you are not interested in the migration of the Greeks, which you have led to huge numbers, and we are losing the best potential of Greece at the moment, at the best age and in the best knowledge, so that a national alteration of the Greek population can take place. So make sure you take the necessary steps to take care of the Greeks, the Greeks and then, as long as we have the possibilities, we also take care of every illegal immigrant. That's the reality. I want to refer to some of the issues of topicality, because when the Golden Dawn tells us in the Greek Parliament, we are listening to you all in good cooperation to want to plow us down and not let us talk. We would therefore like to support Dora Bakoyannis' presence, which went to Erdogan's vow, who, according to yours, was a fascist, a tyrant who exploited the Turkish people and who did not respect human rights. But we see Dora Bakoyannis going to represent the New Democracy, a New Democracy that lies unscathedly when he says that he cares about national issues, and is even photographed with Ahmet Hadjiosman. For those who do not know, Ahmet Hadjiosman was a Member of the Greek Parliament and was here on the benches - our competitor, Panagiotis Eliopoulos, in 2013, had undone him by showing him to be photographed under the flags of supposedly independent Western Thrace - he was a MP elected with PASOK. But that is of little importance, because in all the parties there are such gruesome guys and traitors. So, then, this guy - to see why we say they are traitors and Hatziosman and all the others who are not just Muslims, because since they are Muslims in Thrace we respect them, but they are the ones who say Turks - Ahmet Hadjiosman participated in an official Turkish mission in Sudan and Somalia along with Turkey's Vice-President Tsavosoglu. Here's the picture, I put it in the Minutes, and those who object can see it. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And Dora Bakoyannis goes yesterday, the day before yesterday and is photographed with him, with Ahmet Hadjiosman, who claims to be a Turkish and who was in the Greek Parliament to represent Turkey's rights rather than Greece. This is the picture that Greek citizens see. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With Erdogan, then, when our two Greek soldiers have been imprisoned for over four months, when almost all of them have forgotten about them. We are therefore talking about a treasonal conflict and a treacherous opposition. And of course, there was nothing to hear about Dora Bakoyannis' visit. You disagree on other issues of economic interest, on various other issues, but no one has spoken here. Why? For the treason in the Greek Parliament is one of all of you and such MPs who declare Turkeys within the Greek Parliament you have all parties and you cover them. To stress that it is disgraceful for Greece, it is a shame for Greek politicians and MPs to accept cooperating and chatting with all of them. Anyone who is a Muslim in Thrace will accept that our Thrace is Greek, will accept that there is no Turkish minority and will thus come to the Greek Parliament. Otherwise, let him go back to Turkey quickly to find Erdogan, to be his leader. Here, to remind you of a few things about SYRIZA-ANEL treason, but also the treacherous New Democracy with PASOK, we must see and remember Earhan Arikli. Erhan Arikli, for those who don't remember and forget fast, is Tasus Isaac's killer, for those who don't know it. Erhan Arickli was elected a Member of Parliament in the pseudo-state that exists in our Cyprus, in the pseudo-state of the Turks. So for him - you see him here - there are arrest warrants from Interpol, but the Greek Government does nothing so that this worm can be arrested and tried as it pleases him. On the other hand, Dora Bakoyannis, representing the entire Greek Parliament, is going and relished with Erdogan at these times. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, we must not forget Kanan Akin. Did we forget about Kanan Akin? He's the murderer of Solomon, when this hero of our country was up on the web to lower the Turkish flag and shot him in the back. So this guy, for those who forgot, has said in Turkish newspapers: "I shot him and I would shoot him again. In fact, I will put for the election in this pseudo-crat, 'cause the Turkish Cypriots worship me like a national hero'. That's what Erdogan's representatives say, Erdogan's people. And the Greek Government, the Greek politicians, are taking and chatting with them, photographed with them and carved with them! In fact, I would like to stress that you are very selective in democracy and in tyranny and fascism. What's going on here? The nationalism of the Greeks is inconsistent with you. It's annoying. The ethnicism of Albanians, don't you mind? The nationalism of the Turks don't you mind? You don't mind the Skopje nationalism now? All these people can claim from Greece because they've found you, the submissive dolls. Let's continue now with the killer, with this gruesome guy who came back and said, "Why do you make the killing of a dog sound so important?" That's what this killer says about our hero. It goes on to say: ‘I do not regret what I have said. I say this today and let it have been so many years since that day." This is Dora Bakoyannis. This is the New Democracy, these are all the liars of whom none of you had the courage to entreat all of what's going on, but go and talk to Erdogan and all of them! Finally, for this murderer, I will say that in 2015 the television flashlight presented Akin standing next to the Occupied Leader Mustafa Akinji, hug with Erdogan. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, democrats, what happened here with Erdogan? Isn't it a problem for our country? Aren't they murderers who have shed innocent Greek blood? But that's how you've learned their submissives. So you have learned to keep living. We will end by saying that national issues are of key importance to all Greek citizens. He proved it to you and proves it to you by the Greek people every day. It has been outside for months and is fighting for the issue of the name of Skopje, for the name of our Macedonia, which will never be granted and we will not allow it to be granted. And because you are very democrats, respect 80% of the Greek people, who do not accept the term "Macedonia" in the gypsies. So respect the verdict of the Greek people, do not go with 20%, since you are democrats and respect the decisions of the Greeks. You cannot ignore thousands of Greek rallys to ignore them and not take them into consideration, at the same time that some guys are circulating out here with skirts and high heels, while they are men, and there you say that they are their right to self-determination. I will conclude by saying once again that it is shameful that the assassins of the Greeks, the ones covered by Erdogan and the illegal Turkish state, should speak with Greek officials. You are rats, you are traitors and the Greek Golden Dawn will no longer allow this betrayal!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u119	I would ask Mr Christos Kelles to take the floor. He's not here. Mr. Emmanuel Thraniotis? He's not here. Mr. Gregory Stoyannides, MP Xanthi of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing in plenary the draft law of the Ministry of Labour entitled 'Security and pension arrangements, the treatment of undeclared work, the strengthening of the protection of workers, the commission of unaccompanied minors and other provisions'. This bill contains provisions which amend provisions of labour law for the benefit of workers. I have no time to discuss all the articles in detail. So I chose to refer to some of these. In Articles 5, 6, 7 and 8, new arrangements are in place to deal with undeclared work. By Ministerial Decision 2013, a fine of EUR 10,500 was introduced for each undeclared worker. This fine was introduced by the New Democracy. The aim was to hit small businessmen. They knew very well that it does not hurt the big businessmen, who are supported by the New Democracy. Mr Brutsis defends it in every way and on every occasion. But it has not been telling us, in practice, for five years now what this has brought about. The result is almost zero, because many fines may have been charged, but little has been paid. This fine was of a punishable nature. From there on, with the specific arrangements described in this bill, operators employing undeclared workers, as long as they are hired for three months, will be able to pay EUR 7 000, for six months EUR 5 000 and for 12 months EUR 3 000. At the same time no redundancies may be made in the undertaking concerned and the conditions of employment may also not be changed. In other words, rotation or parttime work cannot be imposed. Article 9 establishes the responsibility of both the contractor and subcontractor for workers. I would like to give you a real example in Eastern Macedonia - Thrace. I do not want to mention specifically the business, you understand the reasons. In 2012, therefore, in an industry that has been operating for years in this area the contracting party, i.e. the industrialist, who had the industry, suddenly carried the workers to a contractor. They continued to work at the same workplace, produce the same products, but the contractor forgot to pay insurance contributions for two to three years and also reached the end of the day not to pay the workers either. These workers appealed to both the Ministry of Labour and to the tripartite meeting at the Ministry of Labour asked me to attend. That's where only the contractor came and not the contractor. So I asked the entrepreneur, who had made the contract with the contractor, to at least describe what this contractor is like, because the contractor had not known him for three years either. He couldn't even describe us if he was tall, short, fat, thin, what age he is. Theoretically he had met with him and had concluded a contract. As you can see, this regime exists to date. This regime is changing. This regime does not want New Democracy to change. In this regime, thousands of workers live in Greece. Indeed, the rapporteur of the New Democracy in the committee has asked for the article to be withdrawn. So everyone understands the interests of the New Democracy. We hope that the workers will understand it, that the New Democracy does not serve the interests of the workers, that it serves the interests of a few major entrepreneurs. In conclusion, I would also like to refer to the amendment tabled by the New Democracy, which proposes that there should be no reduction in pensions in 2019. From 2010 to 2015, New Democracy, either as a government or as a supporter of the Papademos government, passed laws where, among other things, it cut pensions by more than 40%. He cut the thirteenth and fourteenth wages by the civil servants. It cut the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions by pensioners. Reduce wages to civil servants by 40%. It effectively abolished collective labour agreements, by law it reduced the minimum wage from EUR 751 to EUR 586 and legislated for the first time in Greece and the underpaid wage for young people under twenty-five years to EUR 511 and much more. For all that you have legislated, you have not brought any amendments. Do you consider them fair? If you consider them fair, tell the Greek citizens at last. Stop mocking Greek citizens. Few people believe you, and when the election time comes, they will give you what you deserve. These, if it's a lie, deny them. The rapporteur of the New Democracy has accused us of having legislation by hand and abstraction. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u121	That's right. Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u122	So when New Democracy was running with a programme and targeted, as you, in 2004 and 2009, what were we going to do? Greece was charged and we entered the memoranda. So, targeted, we entered the memorials, targeted bankrupt Greece, targeted at hunger the Greeks, targeted few entrepreneurs became richer than they were. So you confess to that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of all the articles in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Stoyannides. Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, only as a tragic irony can the criticisms made in today's bill be heard, particularly in terms of Officerial Response, and not just. You're literally talking at the house of the hanged rope! I see several white heads here, including those who have suffered - including those who speak - these drastic and dramatic cuts in pensions and in the simple. Personally, I've suffered it 12 times and less than 40 percent on the single. So when, under the suffocating fraction of the memorials, literally with the pistol on the cliff, so that the country does not fall on the cliff, we have to vote on the third memorandum, with the commitment to the Greek people - to remind you - that with the parallel programme we will do everything we can to relax this pistol - and as you can see, to your great regret, we will, as you can see, get rid of it next month - you are coming here and you are accusing us of bringing 'constructive arrangements' and 'collects'. Obviously, one cannot seek "orthography" in this mess you left behind in the country at every level, with conflicting provisions, with pluralism and, above all, with attention at all to the winter layers of Greek society. On the contrary, you have recently put it into ethnicism, you are demagogling, you are plundering the Macedonian issue, and you are dying of the unfamiliar memory of national wisdom, of Macedonian presumptuousness now. On the other hand, you have, in my opinion, reached the last point of demagogy - it reminds us of the time of Diligiannis, in the 19th century, so far back you have gone - when you come here and tell us, you are also putting us dilemmas, whether you are cutting pensions or not. It is obvious that you have also taken the carpet on this issue. As you know, we do not stop proclaiming the government's class partitioning against the abolition of class struggle, which is, of course, your lust but will never happen. Let me remind the Laskaris. I think that the characteristic example of this attempt to correct our own laws, to correct injustices, is the prior acceptance by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Security of the amendment correcting an injustice by a conscientious error, when it was acquired, I would say, speed, resigned from their service, without having completed, for a few days, the conditions for their retirement, which, of course, before the adoption of the relevant law and within the deadlines provided for by the Ministry of Education, had submitted their resignation. And on the occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that because we are, unfortunately,'many states on the packaging of one', this unacceptable conflict must finally be lifted, and - how can I say it - between what we are voting on and the way in which the General Accounting Office of the State deals with them. Where did a worker hear a trainer working until the end of the school year and not recognize the time after his resignation as a pensioner while having paid his statutory insurance contributions? We must resolve these, in my opinion, as well as the disharmonies that exist with the Staff Code, another unacceptable regime in the previous period. To conclude: because what we call 'class payroll' is not a declaration, but is a real social need, particularly toward the new generation, which gives the battle without leaving the country - and I am also addressing the Civic Opposition and PASOK - you can tell me why you have never brought it to ratification while there has been a Community directive, the so-called 'non-discrimination principle' between permanent workers and fixed-term workers since 1999. There are currently twenty judgments of the European Court of Justice - the last sentence was against the Irish State - that the different employment status does not in any case create a right to breach basic workers' rights. May I refer to the discrimination on sick leave, parental leave, leave for leave for leave for fixed-term workers? A characteristic case is - you know that from their mobilizations too - the assistant teachers. So in the next, I believe, legislative initiatives by the Government - this is also a proposal by thirty-three members of the SYRIZA - we have to ratify this Community directive and lift the discrimination against fixed-term workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. The reason is now the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I would like Mr Brutsis here to explain to him about the twenty-one reductions he says and to know and on Saturday, the broadcasts directed by Piraeus on these lasting lies which are repeated with staggered broadcasts and that they should once come face to face with the truth. A lot has been said here. Of course, nothing else can happen. Every time the same fairy tale falls. The New Democracy spoke about parliamentary manoeuvre and presented the success, in Mr Brutsi's understanding, of social security in the years from 2010 to 2014, saying that the system had been developed, social security had been strengthened and that we will now have 37% reductions in main pensions and - I don't know -43% in subsidiary. It's unnoticed, this diffusion to lying, and I'm sorry. I would like another responsible attitude from the New Democracy. Because it refers to the study which has recently been carried out on the basis of the law. This study also talks about the budgetary reduction in expenditure, not about pension reductions. Mr. Metarakis, you also have knowledge of economics. I imagine you own these.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u127	Explain them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u128	I imagine, therefore, that you know that the reduction in budgetary expenditure is not equivalent to a reduction in pensions. It is equivalent to GDP growth and cost reduction, because you have a GDP growth with a projection by 2070. Because in 2016, we had 14.7% of GDP forecast - it was not so much, it was, indeed, above, but these figures have the study of budgetary expenditure - and in 2070 it will be 9.2% of the budget expenditure in relation to GDP. This does not mean a pension of 9.2%, it does not mean a pension of 14.7%, or a pension of 1.4, because that is where the financial expenditure on subsidiary will be in 2070. It is not only an alchemy, it is an inadvertent response to an effort made by the Greek people and a false system that is constantly directed to reproduce in the "SKAI" and your other friendly means, which take the very agenda that they should set up every time with their false guests. So that's the truth. And since you are causing us to move on to other measures such as the relief of the free trade debtors, why don't you do these measures to support them, which are the relief of the sums of provisions and cases to be applied by the article which we are talking about in question? Why don't you and your other friends vote? I do not know if it is called the Change Movement, but this political side has told us to move on to what we agree and vote on. I don't know if he'll do it by the end of the day. However, we have moved on after a difficult period of pressure, so that we can get back to reality, facing the difficulties of the insured. And that's what we're doing today. We are doing so in a way that is effective and we would like to see the usual attitude of all of Parliament's wings here, because the time has finally come to lighten the penalized at costs which are very important. For example, the provision for farmers, who, in order to be insured with their insurance institution, have waited years and have accumulated debt due to the delay in the system to meet their insurance claims and have become debtors since the first day they were insured. Even for health-related contributions, without having health and coming by provision now and making them insured immediately and free from health insurance costs, it is a provision that you can vote on. Why don't you do it? And yet you don't bring any convincing explanations for all these denials, and what else, anyway, you suggest. Let's look at the numbers and compare them to Law 3863. And since Mr Loverdos is here, it is good to have a debate on the data of L.3863, which has never been implemented because it has never been time for it to be implemented, as all the data of the economy had changed slowly during the four-year period since its vote. Law 3863 provided for the first reductions and followed by others, so that the country could achieve the objective for which it was committed by the first memorandum, that pension expenditure should not exceed 16.2% of GDP. But he kept over him. When we took over the government, it was again 17%, despite the constant reductions of 63 billion euros over the whole period, from the provisions of Law 3863 and the subsequent ones over the next three years until our government takes responsibility for these matters. Even so, and so to see them, we have to make static comparisons, the national pension is now EUR 384, while the basic pension with L.4386 was EUR 360 and the pension rate over 40 years with L.4387, our law, is 42.8%, while L.3863/2010 was 40.14%. Even so to weigh the differences, it is really a law with better performance than the one that was supposed to solve the problem without solving it, n.3863/2010. To even say about the other performances of the FBI. We had said - and it is confirmed - that we will reach the fifty-two thousand main unfinished pensions, due in June. We made a mistake by a thousand eight hundred pensions. We went to the fifty-three thousand eight hundred pensions. We had received a hundred and sixty - eight thousand nine hundred twenty - two pensions. At this time we gave three hundred ninety-five thousand seven hundred eighty additional. Say something good for this world that worked for social security, even though it was reduced by almost half as potential, and it achieves such results. What is the result of such a result, if not of the self-renunciation of these people? Because with reduced powers, having such results is nothing to do with it. Push, finally, those who work. The example of the Single Social Security Agency is a good example as a model target for the country, with all the weaknesses it may have. These achievements can be seen in the front as a challenge for all of us. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with all this data you need to see what is best achieved for our people, that in 2014 149 million euros were paid to public hospitals in the country and in 2017 580 million euros were paid and at the same time 133 million euros were paid oldly to the EEA. These are the result of the involvement of the people of work, the people of labour and our retired people in making the basis of the health system stronger. They didn't go missing. The health contribution that has increased, caught a place, produces even better results and we will be able to build a better overall potential for all. These are not pension reductions. It is a strengthening of the common destiny, of a destiny that makes the country better, more dynamic in the future. There is no reduction of the twenty-one you say, despite the ones resulting from your own laws. In detail, in order not to abuse time, I should like to mention at least some of them. You are talking about reducing pensions from EUR 486 to EUR 392 in August 2015. It is known as the ‘Cyclical Chaikali’. It was a provision of Law 3863/2010. That's what happened. It was not implemented, because then the n.4387 that abolished it was practically abolished. You spoke about increasing the age limits to sixty-two years with forty years of insurance. You write them: Twenty-one truths by Mr Brutsi and the truth group for the twenty-one reductions that we made. Increase the age limits to sixty-two years with forty years of insurance or sixty-seven years to ten-five years of insurance. Law 4093/2012 says so. We don't. So much lies and loaded up! I can show you in detail all lies from the twenty-one themes you've given us. Nearly all, except in the case of the increase in the health contribution, except in the case of the limit of up to two thousand and three thousand two pensions, which end in December 2017 and the method of calculating supplementary pensions, which leads to better results of supplementary pensions, instead of the 57% horizontal reductions brought about by the Brutsi Act, are what we have done. Stop mocking the truth all the time, when you have nothing to compare to these concrete and vague data we give you. I'm really going to bother giving you a detailed note to read it to understand it at last. If I give it to you - and you will have understood it logically or you have divorced from logic - you disagree, then you must go out and say clearly - and have a normal conversation here - where is the truth, if what I say is not true. It's and it'll prove. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by pointing out that it will once again cause the discomfort of the Opposition and, in particular, of the Opposition Officer. I am talking about dissatisfaction because, on the basis of the draft law being passed, the opposition and, in any case, those who criticise it again find themselves in a difficult situation. You are in a difficult position, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because you are first disturbed at the moment when we are legislating, as I remind you that the fourth assessment has been completed, crucial decisions have been made on the Greek debt and we are almost a month from the end of the long period of suffocating Memorandum which was imposed on the country, and indeed on your own fault. So all of this causes you discomfort, bother you and urge you to react, which are now inclined to become graphics in the eyes of the world, because the Greek people understand - to be sure of this - the Greek workers understand who eventually produces substantial work, who dares to give solutions to issues that until first constituted taboo, such as black work, a feeling of fear, which has been dominated by those who have been caught up in undeclared employment. We are therefore continuing our mission and having completed one part of our commitments to the Greek people, having, in other words, drawn up the course of exit from the crisis, we are moving a step further in order to heal the bad texts of the world of work. We are shielding labour rights and we are legislating to combat and cure widespread infraction, in a way that gives incentives to both the employer and the worker, with the final benefit of the state mechanism and the insurance funds. Our differences with Opposition are fortunately discreet. It also made sure that we were reminded by the Qualified Opposition, prejudicing flexible forms of work, describing eight hours as outdated and collective agreements as unwanted. With these proposals, the Civic Opposition is against the defence of fundamental labour rights and freedoms and while I could say that you yourself are actually affected by these positions, I really am asking you: on what criteria do you adopt positions that affect the social fabric of the country, condemning workers in economic poverty and ultimately keeping the country at a standstill and misery? At a time when the New Democracy continues to characterise the reduction of the minimum wage and the suspension of collective bargaining for remarkable reforms, we are working to increase the minimum wage and restore collective bargaining from the next August. We are in favour of workers' negotiating power and we are introducing strict rules for the protection of work. That's our difference. In any case, as long as you do not seem willing to change as much as we will continue to show you, we will continue to do what you did not want to legislate, we will continue to legislate in favour of many and not few, not subjugating the demands of many to the fair positions of the few. I will return to the regulations, ladies and gentlemen, which we are promoting on undeclared work, and I really want to understand exactly where you disagree, although I believe that your reactions are clearly pretextful. We are therefore setting multiple fines in the event of the employer relapsing, while as far as the former defenceless worker is concerned, who is often the victim of the climate of terrorism and intimidation in most cases of black work, we are giving an extra incentive to the worker to denounce the infraction and thereby look forward to his recruitment, so also to his insurance. And what do we do with it? We gain multiple benefits, as we get recruitment, we prevent black work, we encourage workers' insurance, and we therefore lead to an increase in the funds of the insurance funds. Especially as far as insurance is concerned, we are closing down back wounds, as the surplus of social security institutions reached EUR 2.9 billion in 2017, according to the Hellenic Statistical Office and EUROSTAT. We are restoring normality and doing nothing but self-evident, ladies and gentlemen, as we move on to the gradual regulation of the labour market, which was severely and inhumanly affected during the period of the economic crisis. That is what we are doing, nothing less, nothing more and I would really like to make an appeal. Find political courage and recognize the work of the government, at least as far as the basics are concerned. In other words, the protection of the weak, the recovery of dignity and the safeguarding of social cohesion and balance. As far as contractors are concerned, we share responsibility for and shield workers, as we introduce arrangements for the responsibility of the contractor and subcontractor to workers, providing that the responsibility for breaching labour and insurance legislation lies not only with the contractor but also with the undertaking that accepted his services. With regard to the debts to the funds due to parallel insurance, we have the political will to put an end to a chronic problem by allowing disputed debts or interest and increases that have been created to the detriment of insured persons due to the complexity and complexity of the previous social security framework. It takes courage and determination to make such decisions, and even if we take criticism, we do not hesitate to move on with these regulations in order to detached thousands of our fellow citizens from the dead of bureaucracy. The draft law before us introduces, for the first time, electronically, measures to protect unaccompanied minors in line with European directives. The children in Greece will now be monitored and will be followed by three different and interrelated electronic registers, one for the Commissioners, one for the structures and one for the unaccompanied children. Ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks remain firm in our commitment to the Greek people and we support all those efforts that lead the country to the memorial era. One of these efforts is our concern to suspend or even - even to abolish those measures which we ourselves voted on on on pension cuts. The fact that Moscovisi told the national Parliament about flexible commitments, which the government is also studying how it could implement them, so that either by abolishing or suspending pensions, it is a sincere and honest effort by this government. Of course, if you really love the Greek people, gentlemen of the Anti-Population, such an effort to support it. Do not mock her, do not disobey her and say from this Step "disturb what you voted". You vote on an amendment that will cancel these pensions. For think of how easy and if anything else it is that you show us how we will then legislate in favour of the good of the citizens of this place. This is therefore an attempt by this government and part of these efforts is the present draft law, which we are also voting for, with a view to restoring social injustices for the benefit of our weakest and most vulnerable fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u131	Thank you to Mr Katsiki and to keep time. Mr Christos Kelles, New Democracy MP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said in person and many times as a member of the New Democracy, but also from the other opposition parties that you have been clandestinely legislating, with last minute amendments to committees, but also in plenary. This time, however, beyond curiosity, you are also confusing. You try in a miserable and inappropriate way to connect the unconnected. You are bringing pension and insurance provisions, provisions relating to labour legislation, together with, in principle, regulations for unaccompanied minors and a social and solidarity economy. As far as the first part is concerned, you are bringing in emblematic and fragmentary arrangements to cover the gaps of the Katrugalo Law and two years after the adoption of this law there is no functional integration of the funds. EFKA is in constant trouble. We are still waiting for the Single Procurement Regulation, while the resolution of the insurance disputes is placed at the discretion of the Minister of Labour, with the opinion of the Social Security Council. I think, Minister, that you should have formulated a clear and stable framework for the disputes, without harming the insured, while you should have given clear instructions to the EPC and its employees, who are also making friendly and laborious efforts, lacking guidance and guidance. As far as the second part and the working provisions are concerned, in the First Chapter, provisions are introduced to deal with undeclared work, which you are supposed to be fighting for. But the numbers speak for themselves. From 2013 to 2014, under a New Democracy government, undeclared work was reduced from 40% in February 2013 to 13.8% in December 2014. Three years later, in December 2017, undeclared work decreased only two units compared to the level you received it. You have therefore failed in this area too. Now what are you doing? Keep the fine of EUR 10,500, but at the same time make discounts depending on the duration of the contract, if the employer hires the worker. In fact, these arrangements facilitate the conclusion of short-term contracts, quarterly or even semesters, without fighting the phenomenon of undeclared work at its root, while strengthening temporary employment, to present a faded picture outwards, to our partners, and at the same time fuel the Greek people with illusions. In Chapter II, in Article 9, we have the transfer of the responsibilities to the contraaor, except for the contractor and the subcontractor. And I ask, is the contraaor able to know exactly what the contractor is doing? I'll give you a simple example. If a building is entrusted with the management of an office, which employs a cleaning workshop, will the tenants of the building be accountable? Imagine what can happen to wider - scale contractors. I think that this is how you burden administrative and bureaucratic procedures in the event of responsibility being sought. Furthermore, it seems to me that these rules do not apply to the public. In other words, you are once again introducing a restrictive framework for business, and that is not the case for the state. In Article 11, you are failing in ministerial decisions the arrangements for the thermal stress of workers, unclear and vague. If you want a framework that shields the health of workers, here we are talking about it. With fireworks, however, without a reflection, it doesn't work. The third part should not be covered by this bill, but by the Ministry of Migration Policy, which you brought about a two-month period ago, without having any provision for these children. The fact is that in our country we have many unaccompanied minors who need special care and care. But you have not established an organised management framework, but you are choosing to create the institution of the professional commissioner. Here too, we have fragmentary arrangements, without clear guidelines, and in common ministerial decisions the definition of his qualifications and his remuneration are omitted, while ministerial decisions are also referred to sections relating to the functioning of the registers. The High Authority, which has submitted a memorandum, refers to the need to identify the qualifications of the Commissioners. Furthermore, it seems that there is no contribution from the Ministry of Migration Policy, which shows that you have disconnected immigration policy from its specific social dimension and that you have caused a legal and organisational gap in the management of minors. The existing organised infrastructure is not sufficient to accommodate children, and we already have seven hundred minors who are homeless. Why is that? What do you lack and you cannot respond? If you can't handle the matter, say you can't. Because we are dealing with children who will probably stay in Greece and need specific integration and integration policies. Furthermore, in Part Four, you enter for vote arrangements indicating privileged treatment - unknown to whom. You say that OAS buildings can be granted to public or humanitarian bodies from the Ministry of Labour. Who will these bodies be? On what criteria? And how will public buildings be granted? As in Article 37 respectively, you say that buildings will be granted for cultural and other uses. All of this concerns, in conjunction with the provisions of Article 43, where you seem to be making a move to discounts to OAL entities by undermining the quality of their work. Why are you doing this? Who do you want to serve? Another issue that concerns is the inclusion of the SBV in the social partners. You, a party left, are the industrialists of Northern Greece among the social partners. Yes, sir. Is SBBE not centralised by BSE? I'm in love, too. Yesterday, the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, in his speech to SBBE, the Association of Industrialists of Northern Greece, attacked the BSE, accusing him of anti-development policy, because he says he took a stand in favour of pension cuts. Yes, sir. Who cut the pensions? BSE? Didn't you cut the pensions? Mr. Tsipras' government didn't cut the pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u134	Who cut her pensions? Those pensions you'll be cutting back in a few months, who cut them off?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u135	Oh, we'll cut them off!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u136	Politics has reached the limits of mental illness now. Can I ask you something, Minister? Why do you include only the SBBE in the social partners, and you do not include the STEB, the Association of Thessaly Industrialists? Why? Put more people in it. Finally, the matter of revenues from the State New Year's lottery raises questions. The Finance and Labour Ministers, he says, will decide on the allocation of net revenues for social policies. Where are these revenues available? Who will these bodies be? Nobody knows or rather has something in mind, you just don't say it. I think we should at some point look at this more seriously and legislate more organisedly and properly. Any positive arrangements under the bill are dispersed and unrelated to existing legislation. This results in the inefficiency of the respective public policies and intensification of pluralism and evil. In particular, when the abuse is accompanied by privileged treatment of certain artisans, it results in the public interest not to be served and the reflexes of society are constantly provoked. Fortunately, however, the countdown has begun and the elections will not be long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u137	Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis, Member of the SYRIZA Lassithi, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed very hypocritical that the Opposition to waive the Government for pension cuts, when the Greek people lost 25% of their gross national product between 2010 and 2015, pensions were cut by 40% and unemployment fell to 28%. It is very hypocritical to abandon the government that it governs without a plan and to say that you had a plan when the Greek people suffered these cuts. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Security and pension arrangements - Coping with undeclared work - Strengthening the protection of workers - Commission of unaccompanied minors and other provisions'. It is a bill designed to protect workers by combating undeclared work, by improving insurance regulations and the protection of socially vulnerable groups, which was reflected by the positions of both workers' representatives and the Greek Industrial Association. The first to welcome it to their large majority, while BSE has been put negatively. As close as August and the net exit from the memorandums, as everyone admits and will be reality, the government prepares the next day and carefully plans to support workers, socially weak groups, increase the minimum wage, but also gradually reduce tax rates and insurance contributions. This closes a period of hard budgetary policy, led by the policies of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. I mention them so we don't forget. However, since some people act as if they were born in 2015 and do not have to know what happened in the past few years, such as the Chief of Staff Response, when he talks about the sacrifices suffered by the Greeks over the last three years, and indeed completely unjust, etc., he asks: What exactly does he mean? Is that before the present government everything was pink and the bad government brought all the harm to the country? I can't believe it. However, if it means that those who are finally called upon to pay unnecessarily, those who thought their country of origin, such as the canals with no licences, or those who took loans with a pledge, as cynically professed, or those who forgot to pay their loans or avoided tax, are all responsible for the bankruptcy of the country - then yes, it is right. After all, they are subjected to sacrifices of those whom Mr Mitsotakis trusts and of whom he is associated. It's the mixture of policy that led to the crisis. Both parties knew that too. Let me remind you - I will also present it in the Minutes - an internal document of the Bank of Greece dated 6 October 2009 to the then Governor, Mr Provopoulou, published at the "KATHMERINI". On the basis of the evidence and developments he says: “... as well as the prospects of being faced with an unprecedented fiscal derailment, which is not justified, only to a very small extent by the downturn in economic activity. It is absolutely certain that the country's present fiscal position is unsustainable." The debate that preceded the economy last Thursday best placed responsibilities over time, but who also has a plan for the next day, a plan for the development of the country for the benefit of many society. This perspective supports this draft law with a view to improving and supporting the rights of workers, the most important pillar for development. That is why it was accepted with positive comments from the majority of workers in the debate with the institutions. The rules on undeclared and undeclared work protect the worker. Healthy businesses are also being strengthened and protected by unfair competition and the insurance system is being strengthened. The fine of EUR 10,500 shall be maintained and the possibility of reducing it shall be allowed if the employer hires the worker under the conditions laid down in this Legislative Decree. It also provides for strict fines in cases of relapse. The spirit of the law is neither collective nor punishable. It aims to protect labour rights, combat unemployment, increase employment on a more permanent and stable basis. These are the reasons why the President of BSE has fronted the government's plan to reintroduce collective bargaining, to increase the minimum wage. This is precisely what BSE thinks is undermining entrepreneurship and does not give rise to any impression of being identified with it. It is also a fact that the MEPs of the Police Department did not vote against the extension of working hours to drivers by Golden Dawn, as well as that the Austrian Government passed a law extending the eighth to twelve hours. These reforms were obviously implied by the Chief of Staff Response in his congratulations to Mr. Kurts. He says: "I would like to wish you every success in the implementation of the important reforms that you promised in the run-up to the election." Unfortunately, it is a bad pretext for what is being reserved for workers. This bill provides for changes to the pension scheme, such as the possibility for the beneficiary to submit the application to remain at work until it is retired. The hardships and delays and the financial burden on those who had submitted proofs of retirement are known, considering that they had to wait up to four years to get their pension. Now they have the ability to work until they are retired. I would point out that under Law No.4387/2016 workers residing permanently and legally in Greece with fifteen years of insurance are allowed to receive their national pension under conditions. Let me refer to a characteristic case of a citizen of seventy-three years at sea and another two and a half years as a heterogeneous employee who submitted the documents for retirement in 2015, got an answer to the beginning of 2018 that he is not entitled to the data until then, and now he is given the opportunity to receive a pension. Article 3 also regulates cases of insurance in two funds either by ignorance or because they have changed employment without interrupting their insurance in the previous fund, with double insurance contributions being charged. This regulation re-examines and restores their injustice. With this legislative framework, we are also trying to protect the minor children of third countries who enter our country and not just because of the unfavourable conditions in the countries of origin and jeopardise their existence, such as war, poverty, exploitation, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u140	I shall conclude, Mr President. These children have lost contact with the family or the closest in these environments, they are unaccompanied and therefore vulnerable to danger and exploitation. The arrangements propose the allocation of the necessary resources, the definition of a professional commissioner, the guarantee of living conditions, shelter, food, education, health care, either in hosting centres, in semi-autonomous units or in contractors. The aim is to reconnect with the family environment or to acquire the necessary facilities for social integration. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from political or party approaches, it is true that social inequality, which is not a natural phenomenon, as some people are proclaiming, is expanding. The gap between rich and poor is growing. According to data from the World Report on Inequality, 1% of the world's population owns 40% of the world's wealth, unlike 50% of the population that possesses only 1% of the wealth. The question arises: What policies are they to reduce rather than widen the gap? Is the ones who are proven to be with the few against the many or vice versa? The answer is clear. That is what this bill shows, and this dilemma will be called upon for the Greek people to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u141	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence Mr Andreas Loverdos for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of labour and insurance matters for the economy is so great, but also by extension, the social fabric of the country that I will try today not to derogate from this theme. Only one reference to the child who killed himself in Argyrupolis and to the issue of the bullying that has so much to do with me - I remember my own actions in the Ministry of Education - and for which we must all be united. Each and every party as much as it can help in schools, parents' associations, teachers and teachers. It gave me a very negative impression, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Gabroglou today, who said that he is not talking about interfering with a family's mourning - that doesn't sound bad, that is right - but he will raise a more general issue of violence between parents and violence in universities. Here, we have bullying. And that's what we have to be united in. It's a very big deal. It was very bad today's statement. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] So let's go to our issues. The Minister in the committee has made more general references which I shall be able to compare, but only insulting their titles. Temptation is to answer, but I will lose time, which I have for my speech. It described the Eurogroup's decision of 21 June historically. I oppose it, as I oppose a word-to-word comparison with the 2012 and 2014 agreements on the issue of public debt. He referred to the loan grace period, and I do not think it is important to remind him today of what they were saying about the parametric changes. I should like to mention that the same Minister, today, ten days before the elections on 25 January, was proclaiming with a veil and a supreme internal certainty that the law is being made by the people, not by the troika technocrats. Mr Petropoulou, I do not want to make any point of tabling my own arguments on what you have said over the last three and a half years. The insurer knows them. But I really am irritated by your reference to the Haikalian arrangement. Why did you do that? You're not telling the truth. Don't fatten it. In 2012 with L.4075, which was the last law before we went to elections, Mr. Koutromanis - I was then the Minister who had the draft law on my responsibility that day - arranged that any benefits given should be given on the basis of the minimum pension before it was changed. In other words, the whole section of benefits is in line with the minimum pension before it changes. So Mr. Michael comes in and draws her one down -22% was the reduction of the threshold - and all this at the order of Giuseppe Carone. I say that name, because he was telling us to do what Mr. Haikalis did. So you must also see your Members who are very strong here today, saying things, these three and a half years. It's you, SYRIZA - ANEL, it's not anyone else. And from what you said, I would point out that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u143	That's not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u144	You are now saying that it has not been implemented. I'm telling you what you said about Hailey's adjustment. It is a regulatory act that you claimed was founded on a power of law over the previous government. Wrong! Truth! And I'm stopping it here. I will not yet ask Mrs Ahtsioglu about certain arrangements that may be the law, but that is not fair and if we raise our head, they - the lenders - will get it down, they will be sliding and everything that has been done and everything that has been done about the political bluff of clean exit, they give answers to these checks. I want to contrast them. But she makes a reference to her speech in the Standing Committee and verbatim I am transferring it to you: "The current Government implements policies to strengthen the large social majority, policies to relieve weak and oppressed sections, to strengthen the world of work". So let the government now explain how it strengthens the oppressed strata of the Greek people when it has cut off the main pensions, which the whole country concludes, except for some - not all - ERT journalists, who despise the fact that they are paid out of the taxpayers' money and not from the government's money. How can you say that you have not touched the pensions for the increase in the contribution voted on by the Memorandum - you admitted it - when for the subsidiary the cut reaches 40%, when the minimum pension from your own choices has fallen, when you abolished the NSA, the NSA of the disobedient to you, which you have disappeared, when you have abolished family allowances, widow’s pensions, disability benefits? Having done all this, you cannot say that every point, every inch - it is the words of Mrs Ahtzioglu - who is won by strengthening the weak, it is your own business, and that is why you must speak on the basis of it, allegedly, to the Greek people. If there is a flaw of truth in what you say about inch and inch, it is that there is no inch and inch that you did not give a graceful shot on matters relating to the homeland, the Greeks and the Greeks. At the Ministry where you are, I've been a Minister in a tragicly difficult time. I am the Minister who despite the difficulties of this time, who has introduced the first law which guaranteed the flexible forms of work - and I am referring to 2009-2010. I am the one who has regulated labour rights and relations by abolishing excesses that have been suited to other regimes, of course, within a very tough time that the ideas of both the troika and the lenders have become. But after persistent negotiations, from conflicts, they were - not always - and sometimes - legislative choices. But employment intervention was very serious in matters that were top of the day. You, on the contrary, can easily say that you are the 'insurance platform'. I am referring to the Katrugalou arrangements, and I would like to quote two cases, ladies and gentlemen. The first relates to the much-discussed and still to be discussed and to be discussed, the abolition of the personal difference, which concerns hundreds of thousands of pensioners, who cannot play political games on their backs. And you play political games on their backs, implying that you will not cut the personal difference. You voted for the cut of 15 days ago when you incorporated in the multi-billion prerequisites here in the medium term. And - you weren't here the Ministry of Labour on the day I was chasing - I asked you and let me get an answer today: How, while Katrugalos was plunging the insurance against the abolition of personal differences, he estimated 1,880,000,000 euros of expenditure on insurance, and in the medium term this decrease is rising - you being more careful, you are in a very sacred place for democracy - at 2,400,000 euros? We asked where about 500,000, 000 more, half a billion more, is to reduce public spending. Where do these come from? You have the evidence and you can answer these questions. We have done so to eliminate the personal difference in the proposal for a law, not an amendment. If you bear in mind to make an intervention in this respect, you have nothing but to strengthen our voice, to vote with us to abolish this tragic cut in pensioners. Second case. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see what I have to say, but what I am about to say now is very characteristic for your own ministry. It's the famous contributor - tax through the FBI. A free trader, a lawyer, who declares the 2017 income of 50,000 euros, pays VAT of 15,000 euros. His command companies, who paid him his fee for the services he provided, pay a tax of 20%, 11,000 euros, that is. Finally, of what the client pays to provide a service, 50% go to the public when such a business relationship begins or ends. Now we need to add the FBI. That is why when we deduct the tax paid by companies, when we deduct expenditure and go to net taxable income, 850 euros a month are added, around 9 000 euros a year. The solidarity levy and the advance payments of next year are added. And if we count on those who have contributions from hired jobs as well and if we count on HISFIA, then we reach 95%. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, as Mr Katrugalos said, this is not a class apostasy. This is a crazy system, a counterproductive system which concerns thousands of people. To our colleagues in Athens, in the sixteen thousand, this, in the assessment of the Bar Association, is about four to five thousand professionals, Mr Petropoule. It's too big a number. Make a reduction all over the country, go to the other free professions and businesses as well. To return, however, by leaving this truly twisted, crazy system of contributions and taxation, and to go back to work. You admit - I do not remember what majority colleague said - that there is a problem with undeclared work, but the most important problem - I think the Deputy Minister mentioned this - arises from the alleged work. And here too, if that is true - which is - the SEA must be added. I'm told they've been recruited, but recruitment - pension numbers are almost the same. We have four hundred labour inspectors and two hundred fifty three to control insurance and health at work. These two hundred and fifty-three with the draft law you are voting on is limited not to controlling this sector, but limited to controlling the accidents at work, for the reasons of the accident. So the health sector - safety at the workplace now has reduced controls based on the choices you make. I am also aware that the information system, instead of giving time to the audit mechanisms and to you, takes away because, yes, the workers there admit that, in fact, you have easier data with the application of the information system, but to inform you, after you have carried out the on-the-spot check, the time taken is too much. He's almost twice as high as the previous one, when the system was working with arabia. These are top-down issues, however, for a government majority, for a government that knows exactly what is happening in the area and wants to intervene, not by regulating matters which are heard in the House pleasantly and which helps the majority Members to cut but not on the market, because the market is running elsewhere. The market that runs elsewhere, with controls alone and with the upgrading of the APRC, can be controlled by the respective rulers. I conclude by saying that - we have said so many times, I personally repeat this in almost every speech I have made - you want to be judged for what you are saying and not for what you are doing. Because of what you do, however, your powers are reduced and you are almost collapsed and because of what you do doubt you will be voted on even by your relatives first grade. Mr President, I would like to conclude by pointing out that the wishes and all the exorcisms not only of this Minister, but of the entire government, have nothing to do with the grim reality. And, unfortunately, what we have gained from your action in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018 - half has passed now - is how the evil you have done, in addition to what anti-population records, is the miridism that you have achieved in a small part of the Greek people to have passed, to people, namely, who lie and demagogue poisoned them, but little - just so that from a point and then not only do they realize it, but even if they see it, they do not care. But whoever lies and his actions are questioned with his works will pay for it. And you will pay for it in the elections coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The President, Evangelos Venizelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is in its last phase politically and constitutionally. It is nearing the election time anyway, regardless of the prevalence scenario and the purposes to be served. In this last phase, therefore, the government has, in addition to all others, been engaged in the persistent and systematic effort to transfer responsibility for taking all the anti-popular measures to the next government, in fact to the next governments, because the next period, the next long period, is unfortunately sedated. The budgetary framework agreed is based on a tragic assumption that the average annual growth rate between now and 2060 will be about 1% to 1.2% of GDP. We have agreed on high, I would say, unprecedented for European data, primary surpluses, and by 2022, and much more by 2060. But that's not the big deal. If this political - budgetary agreement, which is a card exercise, had high primary surpluses agreed at a high average real growth rate annually, it would have been reasonable. This is lacking in logic and condemns us in anaemic growth as unsatisfactoryly premiumd, as I have said for two years now, because high primary surpluses have been coexistent with low growth, because this is what demographic data are saying and, above all, because the time series for the real growth rate of the country in the last 50 years, long before the 2008 crisis at international level, which we have experienced in Greece since 2010. This financial framework, of course, has a number of implications. These effects are due to the fact that the country in January 2015, where it was about to come out of the second memorandum by 28 February 2015, was led to a secondary crisis, to a circumvention, which caused a deep structural damage, which can be calculated, as we know, in many ways, but the most critical way is the development impact, which is a permanent and multi-annual one and that is why it is very great. Mr Visier's 200 billion may seem too much, but it is a mere reasonable calculation for the long-term effects of this development retreat, which was achieved in 2015. The first victims of this policy are pensioners. And so we now get to the game - again rhetorical and communication - of cutting pensions, of cutting the so-called personal difference for old pensioners who will primarily affect public pensioners, but also of a number of private pensioners, especially those who have average pensions, because in any case high pensions do not exist in the country. This measure was passed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It was not voted on by the opposition. The Change Movement did not vote for it. New Democracy did not vote for it. Only the government's majority voted for it. And he voted for it because it has full responsibility, economic, political, moral, historical, for this new generation of cuts, because it is another thing to cut pensions in 2010, 2011 and 2012, starting with a primary deficit of 10.5% of GDP, i.e. about 26 billion and starting from the 2014 base, that is, a primary surplus of 0.7%, which, however, as a structural surplus, in view of the recession and unemployment, was the biggest international one in 2014. The country had the largest structural surplus that existed. We therefore have the right to table both the proposal for a law and the amendment to abolish the law in force, the so-called Katrugalos law, which cuts the personal difference. Is this an anti-population populism? Is it populism to put the government before her responsibilities? Is it populism to want the government to clearly say what it is now looking for in its so-called pure exit rhetoric from the memorandum at the end of August? Does it seek to abolish pension cuts by the government or simply seek to postpone this measure so that it can be imposed after the elections by the next government? Does the Government want politically to renegotiate with the partners the overall viability of the insurance system, or does it simply want a measure, which it has legislated because it has found it necessary, simply to sign other political forces on the grounds of the distribution of political costs, in other words, to deceive the pensioner and, more generally, the public? Our position and my personal position are very clear. This measure of the reduction of nominal pensions is not necessary and is not necessary because it has been legislated by the Government and the parliamentary majority of SYRIZA - ANEL along with another, much heavier measure, to which we are rarely referring. It is about freezing pensions until 2022. The financial result of the pension freeze up to 2022 shall be much greater than the financial result of the nominal cut that has been legislated as from 1 January 2019. The pension freeze has a budgetary benefit of 2.8% of GDP, whereas the nominal pension cut has a budgetary effect of 1.5% of GDP. In this sense, even if nothing improved in the macro-economic environment and in the financial planning, it can simply be achieved by extending the freezing of the same results as the percentage of GDP allocated for pension expenditure, so that Greece has as a percentage of GDP pension expenditure at the levels of the Eurozone average, without any new nominal cuts. The measure is obvious that it is not budgetary, as Mr Tsipras believes, who says "we will see the results", as Mr Moskovis thinks, who says "we will see the 2019 budget and we will judge in the context of the European Semester". The measure is structural. It concerns the long-term viability of the insurance system from the point of view of the reasonable amount of pension expenditure for many years. From this perspective, it doesn't matter whether a year is surpluses for the ECA. It is important that the whole system should have a long-term rationale if the freeze is extended without affecting pensions with further haircuts, and if, in the meantime, we have the time for an overall redesign of the insurance system, which is necessary in any case, and which will also become legally necessary through the case law of the Greek courts and the Council of State and the Court of Auditors, because regardless of the amount of pension expenditure, the internal distribution of whatever burden to pensioners must obey one logic. You cannot adopt a legislative logic which is punishable by one point and then by anyone who has many years of insurance, long-term insurance and who has insurance earnings, which is an average level, because of course this approach is a profoundly anti-developing approach and encourages the concealment of income and black labour. It is therefore very important that these internal inequalities and contradictions should also be cured, but, above all, it is important to send out the message that there are solutions, which are responsible - here we are talking about numbers - are able to agree with the partners, do not prejudice the financial framework, as it is currently under way, but that must be improved if the political conditions for improvement are established in the next Parliament and another government and we must, of course, go to the overall redesign on the basis of the proposals that have been put forward. You know very well that proposals have been made for the long time by the group under Professor Miltiadis Nektario, which allow for the reduction of insurance contributions and the redesign of professional funds and an active social role for the private insurance system, so that the overall rate of the replacement of each pensioner, so the combination of social and individual and family planning for each human future and for the solidarity of generations, gives a result, which is credible and decent, because now with what the government is doing, there is neither credibility nor dignity in the year 2019-2020, not in the year 2009-2010, with the country one step before the inconvenience we have avoided. So your responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are enormous and must be placed not for reasons of parliamentary rhetoric and communication, but for reasons of social and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague Mr. Dragon's has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, until I went to Stepma and listened to the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, Mr Loverdos, and then Mr Venizelos, I had the impression - I was mistaken, it seems, so many years - that in January 2015 the Greek people assigned the government responsibility to SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks for not enduring the cuts, degrading its standard of living, along with corruption and much more, because the process of austerity and cuts had reached very advanced levels. I see that this has not happened right now. For other reasons, the people have chosen us to assign government responsibility, because pension cuts and all the rest, as Mr. Loverdos said, started in January 2015 and continue to date. That's the account we watched. Mr. Venizelos left, but just raised a few issues that are very crucial. The battle we fought at the end of 2016 and at the beginning of 2017 to close the second assessment we gave it precisely with the documentation and arguments that neither budgetaryly nor structurally require these pension cuts, but also the reduction of tax relief - and we had all the documentation on this. Because there is a budgetary space and we predicted it and the evidence - neither structural need nor if it was based on numerical calculations - could it be put on the same basis as in other European economies, because an economy that had lost 25% of gross national product could not be integrated so quickly into adjusting the average rate of insurance and pension expenditure in relation to Gross National Product, such as the European average. This battle was fought by Eukleidis Tsakalotos, George Huliarakis, Alexis Tsipras and all the co-legislative ministers. Precisely because the strange conclusion of cooperation not of all the partners, but in particular of Tomsen and Shoeble, has led to this caging, the compromise has been chosen. One-and-a-half years later, all the assessments made by the Greek Government at that time and by the current government, which also form structural and budgetary matters, are confirmed by the possibility of confirming our persistence and our claims at that time, which, on the basis of them, we said that these cuts should not be made. We are now in this debate. Then, but now, not only the New Democracy, but also the PASOK and Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Venizelos were destroying and saying "close the second assessment urgently, Greece is falling apart, here's where you drive the country". Let everyone understand it. This government has been the most serious government for many years in this country, the most methodical, the one that has slowly and gradually been facing difficulties, contradictions, backwardness and realities, without losing its goal. It is precisely for what this government lives for, despite difficulties and drawbacks due to unfavourable correlations, internal and international, society wins, Greece wins and is today's bill. However, I would first like to refer to a very specific case which I think is also indicative and characteristic. Undersecretary of State, Mr Katerina Papanatsiou, a few hours ago, she tabled an amendment which she presented and defended. It concerns the final stage of a three-year effort with legislative intervention, with practical action, with arrangements of all kinds, to overcome all serious and complex obstacles and we are now driving through this amendment to the final and final ending of the performance of the coastal front of Patras in the Municipality of Patras and in the society of Patras. This was sometimes the case by previous governments of grandchildren, ministerial decisions and other rough solutions to internal consumption, with a view to elections or anything else. Alexis Tsipras promised and pledged it in 2014 and since February 2015 he organised a team and instructed the Ministry of Shipping to implement this commitment. It really took too much effort and too many intentions to go too far to achieve this final result. Writing? Not only. Reality, complex issues, but step by step, with stubborn and cooling, we have taken this result seriously and methodically. I would also like to congratulate the Mayor of Patras, Mr Peletides, because we worked together, although he did not trust us and he did not see us that we really wanted and insisted and we could solve it. But he insisted too. He deserves congratulations. I would also like to congratulate the President and Managing Director of the Port Authority of Patras, Mr Nikos Kontoe, the District Director, Mr Katsifara, on factors and citizens of the city of Patras, as well as Members of Parliament. Costas Spartinos, Sia Anagnostopoulou, Andreas Rizzoulis, played a very important role. I do not doubt that the honourable Member, Mr Fotellas, with his positive participation, was helping at critical times to unleash things and promote them. Ladies and gentlemen, this developmental, but also socially just option, which has been brought to an end, as has been repeated again with great success, the performance of the Piraeus Port Authority's coastal front, the Lipas coastline in the Municipality of Drapetsonas and Keratini and other areas in the other municipalities in the Piraeus area, as this model has already been implemented and implemented in Igoumenitsa and other regions, are not just one government which no one else had done. They are choices that this government can make and make, while no one else could, because it was rough, because it was a customer relationship, because it was just irresponsible. That is why this government and a bill on undeclared work, contractors and subcontractors are useful. We have heard today that it is not the main company responsible for the contractors it commissions, it is alienated from responsibility when contractors and subcontractors take over. If that is possible! Of course, the commission of unaccompanied minor applicants are, among other things, the three main points of this bill. The category of precarious workers has been identified by movements and sociologists as ‘precariato’, because ‘precarious’ means Latin ‘insecure’. The tragic thing is that these people, these workers, often victims of social automation artificially cultivated in the place of contrasting capital and work, have other contradictions between insured and uninsured, public and private workers, permanent and occasional workers, safe and insecure, Greek and foreign. Mr. Brutsis, if you're saying it's a crime that you consider precarious work and undeclared work to be a crime, do the whole thing. Come, as a party, publicly denounce any business that uses workers with precarious and undeclared work. Put them out of legality, not formal, but substantive, politics, not to claim them as electoral clients. Renounce them morally. That means politics in one country. That's why the Left has been working for decades. That's the big difference. Because it makes a fundamental, discriminatory distinction between the way capital uses labour and the huge production, development and social importance of work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, do it if you consider it to be a crime and stop these foolish and foolish, destructive and zero criticisms of every positive bill that this government has promoted, solving new problems every day, problems unresolved in both FYROM and debt issues and all issues, the open issues of Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u150	Tomorrow is open for this country. The old political system cannot shut it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Constantine Spartan has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when the New Democracy applauds Mr Kurts and looks forward to the time to imitate him in introducing his twelfth job and his refugee policy, the government brings today's draft law aimed at supporting the world of work, the healing of old and younger wounds opened by the neoliberal policies of previous governments, the promotion of working conditions as the core of fair and sustainable development. It is good to see that all of us are aware that, both in the field of labour and in all areas of government work, the follow-up will be very different from what we have known up to now, although we have already given examples of writing - and sometimes important - of whose policies we believe we are truly owners. And as Eukleidis Tsakalots said some time ago, you haven't seen anything yet. And those who had rushed to iron, either neoliberal hypocrites that were cut off for the people's income that they had cut, or from the safe super-revolutionaries, it is better to wait calmly for continuity and try not all to be exposed together to a malicious chord. But today, ladies and gentlemen, it also comes to the same logic as the application of our own political amendments by the Ministry of Finance with which ninety years has been granted to the Municipality of Patras on the sea front of the city. You will understand my particular reference to this amendment. It is, I believe, a historic day for Patras, in which a request for many decades of the city becomes a reality, following long mobilisations, taking initiatives from the collectives of the city, from active citizens, but also from back-ups from promises from previous governments, local authorities and bodies. The commitment of Alexis Tsipras in 2015 becomes a reality. Patras is perhaps the only coastal town in the country where its inhabitants did not have access to the sea to a large extent to its central urban fabric. Today, with the legislation introduced by the Ministry of Finance and already given the decision of the Ministry of Transport to subordinate the railway line to the same area of the city, the image of the city and the quality of life of its residents and visitors can change radically, while at the same time giving great prospects for fair and sustainable development. You will also allow me as a member of the Achaias Parliament and a municipal councillor Patras to express the joy, the excitement and pride of all the Patras and especially of all those who put a small stone in this effort. And there are many of us, not only the SYRIZA MPs and the others who heard from Thodoris Dritsa, who put a little bit of stone in this effort. It wasn't an easy and always straightforward process. There have always been forces that looked at this public space to make profit on the body of the city. They had already become attempts to build up the space, which had been stopped by certain decisions of the Council of State. But it is worth a quick overthrowing of the history of the whole effort. On 24 January 2012, it is signed between the Port Authority of Patras, OLAPA, to which this area had been granted by the State until 2042, and the Municipality of Patras of Patras with the express commitment of the then Vice-President and Minister of Finance, the nasty and then now and always Mr. Evangelos Venizelos, that this provisional concession will be converted into a final one in three months. So then we had a dubious legal text that other courts accept and not others, regarding the rights of the Municipality of Patras. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In 2014 SYRIZA, as a Visual Opposition, proposed an amendment signed by Alexis Tsipras and then MPs Maria Kanellelopoulou and Vassilis Hadjilambrou, which is not accepted by the government of Samara - Venizelou. At about the same time, the then Minister for Maritime Affairs Miltiadis Varvitsiotis is coming to Patras and proposes to grant a small section of the temporary concession, three hundred metres of coastline instead of three thousand and to use another small part, but not to the municipality, but to the Organization of Port of Patras. For my reason, the truth is that I will submit in the minutes the Maritime Ministry's press release at the time, which says exactly what I said to you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Spartin, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In 2015, Alexis Tsipras is committed to the concession. On 28-06-2016, following a meeting of the Co-Presponsible Ministries and TEAD, to which this part belonged, under the Minister of State of Alekos Flamouraris, a letter is sent to the Municipality of Patras with a commitment to the "roadmap" of the required procedures. On 8-8-2016 the then Minister of Shipping, Thodoris Dritsas, by letter to the Municipality of Patras, makes a proposal for the final concession and the municipal council empowers the mayor to take all necessary steps and consultations to complete the process. I would also like, for reasons of historical importance - I think - to present this letter from Thodoris Dricas to the Patras municipal council, which had set the framework for the concession that is currently being made. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Spartin, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to finish - Mr President, for a minute - to make a reference for reasons and historical justice to those who have played a part in this effort. In addition to Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras who was committed and had followed this whole process up to now and had supported it, I would like to mention first of all: To the Fathers' people and their institutions and their mobilisations. At the "Active Citizens' Initiative" which had been set up for several years in our city and had this objective. On what municipal councils have made relevant positive decisions. To today's mayor, Costas, Peletidis. To the previous mayor, Yannis Diaras, who had arrived to be arrested by the Port for an activism he had then organized in this area. I would like to make a special mention to Thodoris Dritsa, who from the very beginning as Minister of Shipping then embraced this case and seriously, methodically and because he believed it was very helpful to get to this point, along with all his staff and the Secretary-General of Port Christos Lambridis. I would also like to mention: Alekos Flamouraris, who coordinated, in the phase that I told you before, all the co-responsible bodies. At Stergios Pitsirla, who was then president of the TIAD, and even though we know what and what the TIAD is, she played a positive role in this direction. Today's Minister for Maritime Affairs, Panagiotis Kourublis. In Nikos Kontoe, the president and CEO of the Port Authority of Patras. Of course, in today's leadership of the Ministry of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotos, and especially in particular in the Deputy Minister of Catherine Papanatsiou, who with its partners and with its legal service completed this difficult and long process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr. Andreas Risulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. I promise not to say the same for the port of Patras. Kostas Spartinos was obviously analytic in relation to the historical events, but also to the struggles that were actually given, as well as the will of this government, Ministers and Prime Minister, starting in September 2015, for the performance of the sea front. I want to say two things about the bill. I do not think I need to sit down and list how this government in the social and labour field, with the difficulties it had, through the memorandum and the agreement it had to make, which ends in August, has tried and managed to bring arrangements of this kind that protect as much as possible those who have had the greatest impact on the economic crisis. There's something that surprises me. Today I was sitting on the benches and wished a lot of people to see today's TV meeting for a reason that seemed to me as well. First of all, we have a strange homogeneity from the point of view of counter-population in relation to its confrontation with the government. What do I mean by that? First of all, Mr Petropoulou, thankfully - because we have a plan by 2022 and we have a space from now on in August to do things - some of what we are discussing are not coming out, because we would have a rain here, which would be in everything that this government has to do and when it is government again. We would have the rain of amendments. Last year, Minister Ahtsoglou brought here and voted in a bill that after the end of the programme in August 2018 there will be a debate on the reintroduction of collective agreements, expansion. And now comes the question of raising the minimum wage, an amendment from the JRC now, to prevent it, and not capitalism, to bring it in beforehand, to say that we did. The New Democracy is proposing an amendment to reduce pensions, not to reduce pensions. Obviously, since Mr. Hatzidakis to Moscovisi said: "Tell us if changes can be made, we should also change our schedule", you have sat down and changed your programme now and you want and ask for an amendment to prevent us from being cut in pensions too. But the strangest of all is that we don't have a fourth memorandum! I'm sorry if I'm wronging someone, there's no fourth memo. Did anyone hear us say here: 'The fourth memorandum you brought, etc.'? No, there's no fourth Memorandum. It's over. We have said catalysts of Moscovisi's contribution to the New Democracy programme! Mr Koutsoukos criticizes us for immigrants and why we did not legislate to be able to work legally, when an amendment has been made and has the opportunity, with whatever problems there may be from the regions, etc. He might want improvement. In 2013, when he was in the government, he brought here an amendment that would solve the problem of uninsured workers in the fields of Elijah. I don't know, the Ministry has found any such amendment since 2013 that has passed and has not taken care of it? I don't think that's what happened. Of course, the culmination is in the social policy and the programme of the New Democracy - a Member here said and I will say it now - 'they are lazy for those taking CRLs', that they become lazy, as they came out in a statement on the media. It came from here, too, that they get money, and these people are lazy. They have ceased to be those who were on the margin, those who went to the trash, those who cut the electricity and our amendments have the opportunity to be relieved, and now all those who take CRLs are starting to get lazy! Whatever you may see about the social area and the workplace, the same conception drags the public space. I can't be galado on everything. Mr Varvitsiotis, when he came to Patras, three hundred and fifty meters, gave for the sea front. The rest went to privatization, as is the private area, every private area must be privatised to bring growth, so it cannot be exploited, in such a way that public space can create conditions and people can live better and develop. We don't need growth to come where it's public space. That is why it is being delayed in the Greek and that is why we also changed the PPA and gave the public space there and the safeguarding of the workers you had not done. Well, to close here, for Patras obviously today is a very good day, after his isolation for decades of road, rail. The city and the region and western Greece enter the forefront. It's really a good day, which has started from behind. And with the amendments you have all brought, which will take place when we say so and what it will be, we will have better days from now on for the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr Meikopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth reading about the situation, analyzing the time at which we are discussing today's bill, because in my opinion, and the timing, but also the time is particularly important for our country. And that is why I think that this bill should be dealt with in conjunction with the political image that is being shaped in Greece, as well as in Europe. What I mean by this: we are only a few days after the recent Eurogroup, where, in essence, the fourth assessment was successfully sealed. But also in August 2018, in two months from now, the last financial adjustment programme for our country is being completed. We also had something else important: a number of critical decisions were taken on the so-called "Greek debt" very important, in our opinion, for the future of the Greek economy, as a 10-year extension is given to the payment obligations of interest and capital and so we now have a Greek debt that enters a viability path. What does that mean just so people can understand? It means that for the next few years a financial area is created, because we do not have any payments for interest and instalments, so that this area, the money that will be saved, can be directed towards either a more effective social policy or the targeted tax relief for the social body. This is very important, for which we should be appraised. Everything I mentioned came painless? Of course not! They came after an unbelievable - if you want - fiscal adjustment for the entire Greek society and during the governance of SYRIZA, of course, we were called upon to make very tough decisions. However, I believe that what we have achieved was on the one hand not to lose our political orientation, in circumstances - I repeat - extremely difficult and on the other hand to prove this, that in suffocatingly difficult budgetary conditions it can be implemented, it can serve as a different political project, more friendly to the Greek citizen, who of course tried to make a much more modest management of real hard commitments. So I spoke a moment ago about the orientation that I believe we have achieved. Who was that? To strengthen the social state in every possible way by having a double aim: on the one hand, to support work in any way and, on the other, to implement policies that can serve a sustainable development objective. I cannot at this point, ladies and gentlemen, resist the temptation to quote in this House and compare two images: if my memory, in 2014, from this moment on, then the Minister of Labour of the Government of Samaras - Venizelou, had made a characteristic statement. When he was asked what he was doing to deal with a huge unemployment rate - he had reached 27% then - what he replied to the House of the Greek Parliament was that "we managed as a government and as a Ministry of Labour to reduce the rate of increase in unemployment". And I would like to remind you of this: in what working picture has this statement been made? In an employment picture where collective bargaining by the same government had been abolished by the same government, the minimum wage was reduced by 22% and by 32% for young people under twenty-five years. This was the working picture in 2013-2014, starting in 2010. So, what is today's picture? What's our point? We are at the point where we are ready since August 2018 to reintroduce collective bargaining by reintroducing two critical arrangements: the "principle of expansion" and the "principle of more favourable regulation". We are at the point where we can now plan a gradual increase in the minimum wage, and we are also on a point where there is a distinct footprint: unemployment from 27% that we have received it at 20%. There remains a high percentage, but we cannot fail to note and not notice that it is going down, and we are ready to break the historical 20% barrier. It is a development that the world will assess and judge when the time comes. So in connection with what I have just said, we also bring a bill which introduces a grid of regulations which I believe strengthens the protection of work. Initially, we are dealing more effectively with the phenomenon of undeclared work, in Articles 5 and 6. We are therefore moving in a more substantial direction of shielding the worker and strengthening his position, since the amount of the undeclared job fine will be linked to the recruitment of the undeclared employee, while at the same time not reducing the staff of the firm. As far as contractors in Article 9 are concerned, for the first time certain rules apply to the contractors' scheme, which essentially relate to the cases of contracts where under the cloak of the project are covered by fixed and fixed contractors. Such examples are cleanliness contracts, which in many large businesses and banks are made through contractors. With these contracts, however, there is always a risk that workers who remain unpaid will not be able to claim due and other compensation in the event of their inability to pay, whether this inability to pay is real or not, by the directly participating contractor. This is where the bill comes in to establish the full and mutual responsibility of the contractor and the employer for the workers employed by the contractor for the performance of the project. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is another essential armour of the worker. It is also worth standing in the regulation that is in place and which I consider to be in the right direction in the case of insured persons who, because of the multi-fashioned regulatory system in the insurance sector, were indebted to very large amounts of contributions that they did not know that they had to pay, for example, because they had not had to pay for their business, while they had no revenue from them, while they paid contributions as employees. Therefore, those insured persons are exempted from the debts generated, either from interest or from fees and surcharges. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you. You know that I come from Magnesia, a county with a very large urban centre, such as Volos, which, unfortunately, does not follow the downward path of unemployment in all Greece. Volos has one of the highest percentages. It remains a high percentage, despite the efforts made by the Ministry of Labour and the government as a whole. I want to believe, and it is not just a wish, that there is the objective treaty, the objective dimension to do something about it. We have therefore come to plan, at last, policies that will be dealt with in the Greek region, such as Volos and Magnesia, a phenomenon that is really a scourge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u157	Madam Minister, do you have any legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u158	Four legislative improvements I make. The first relates to the regulation in Article 6(3), which is deleted. We are at undeclared work, changing the architecture of the fine. It was that provision which said that if the undeclared worker does not wish to be recruited, the employer may have the discount if another worker is prevented. This was provided for in the regulation which we are currently removing following the remarks made in particular on the part of the Democratic Alliance, that this regulation, as it were, might have left room for trade or other unwanted agreements. In this way, it 'locks' the regulation exclusively to the undeclared worker and is exclusively focused there. There is a reduction if the worker concerned is recruited. The second legislative improvement is truly unworthy of reference. You'll see, too. The third legislation was necessary for contractors. We say that the differences resulting from these arrangements will be resolved in accordance with the labour dispute procedure under Article 614 of the Code of Civil Procedure. It is a procedural form, that is to say, clarification. The fourth legislative improvement relates to Article 43 and to the social and solidarity sectors. There, if you remember, we had introduced a regulation which abolished an earlier provision which said that if these social and solidarity economic operators have a turnover upwards, then they should pay a very specific percentage of their income. We had anticipated that this restriction to be lifted, because there were too many social and solidarity economic operators, mainly companies that had a very high turnover, but very low profits, and in this way we were creating an obstacle to them. From the debate within Parliament it has been made clear at least by us that this safety net needs to be maintained, so that these businesses can continue to commit themselves to spending a substantial part of their income on wages. So we're removing this arrangement. These are four legislative improvements and I'm tabling them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I would like the floor, if I may, on the subject of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u160	You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u161	Madam Minister, if I may, a ministerial amendment has been tabled by the Ministry of Finance, which I imagine is accepted. Many parliamentary amendments have been tabled by many parties. If you intend to accept someone, can you tell us so that we can organize our opinion of the vote later on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u162	Madam Minister, do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u163	So far from the amendments that have been tabled, we will accept the amendment under the general number 1657 and the river specialist number 128, which provides for special blood donation for private sector workers. We are also accepting Amendment No 1660 and special number 131, which provides for the insurance of escort staff who are escorted to support disabled people participating in camping programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u164	My colleague, George Chogas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, sincerely how badly one can be, how mystic it can be, how mystic it can be, and how degrading the designation against the bill to be a slogan of provisions when he deliberately ignores his central report, namely, the stricter protection of workers for undeclared work and the comitology of unaccompanied minors, as advocated by the New Democracy. However, this is a bill accompanying SYRIZA's dominant announcements and commitments to exit the memorandum and to design the first measures and steps of freedom in a new era by scattering the neoliberal inspirations of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this bill undeniably improve the daily lives of citizens in terms of consistency with the principles of equality and solidarity of the work offered. They further ensure labour rights, the smooth functioning of the labour market by laying down rules of humanism and culture against the atrocity of the effects of the war and the economic impoverishment of societies that are unable to protect their own nationals. We are committed to taking measures on the basis of social needs and claims, to raising the protection of work on a foundation and to guaranteeing fair growth, to healing the imperfections and failures of the social security system, to promoting the project of opposition to social exclusion, especially for unaccompanied minors, by correcting our class notion of the extreme neoliberal policy of the New Democracy. Today's bill at the threshold of entry into the memorandum takes four modules concerning insurance and pension arrangements, provisions to deal with undeclared work and to strengthen the protection of workers, to commission unaccompanied minors, in particular the professional committee and other provisions regulating various time-consuming issues that improve social function. Under the first section arrangements for the first time in the ECA the exercise of the pension right now has a single starting point in the time of payment, allowing the insured person the right to terminate his employment or not until the pension has been paid without consequences and complications. As a result, it solves a chronic question that was usually made at the expense of the insured person. In the cases referred to in Article 3, parallel insurance also caused a double obligation to make contributions and therefore an excessive burden. It is now possible to remove or exempt the surplus obligation due to reasonable doubt as to the obligation to make two or more entities subject to the insurance. Articles 5 to 8 regulate undeclared work, the fight against which is an important issue of political behaviour, because it is considered to be fraudulent behaviour leading to tax evasion and non-payment of insurance contributions and is one of the structural components of the paradox economy, as it contributes to the widening of social inequalities, since it breaks down the causality of the payment of social benefits and ultimately amounts to unfair competition in the exercise of entrepreneurship. The bill defines the architecture of dealing with undeclared work, which is expressed in the preventive function of the fine and at the same time strengthening its deterrent power, and creates conditions for improving the negotiating power of the undeclared worker, but also for the penalisation of the employer, by imposing a fine for undeclared work of 10,500 euros, without providing explanations and, in the event of relapse, within three years, this is doubled for each subsequent infringement, it is increased by 200%. With the positive obsessed protection of workers, Article 6 provides for very important incentives for the employer, enabling him to employ undeclared workers, deviating the fine according to the time limit for the legal employment relationship, which can reach up to EUR 3 000. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a tragic omission of this bill, but also a total of SYRIZA, to send out or even raise its shoulders indifferently, in the ongoing humanitarian crisis, where minor refugees in the refugee camp remained unaccompanied in the Greek territory, exposed to most of the risks, now subject to the vulnerable category of refugees. This is an integrated legislative framework, an intervention - a section, an intervention in which, for the first time, the way in which the best interests of the minor are being assessed is to be protected and to prevent it from being involved in the risk of abuse, violence, neglect, exploitation and marketing. In other words, an integrated system of rules for the protection of the minor, based on the Commission's institution, is being established, with the appointment of a Commissioner for each unaccompanied detainee and at the same time provides for those conditions and procedures which will make this Committee's institution sustainable, such as that bodies of implementation become the competent prosecutor of minors and, in the absence of this, the competent Prosecutor of Priorities, the Commissioner of an unaccompanied minor and the Supervisory Council, and the Directorate for Protection of Unaccompanied Minors and the Register of Hostile Adults Centres is being established. And as an additional innovation the institution of the professional Commissioner is defined, his responsibilities and the framework of his responsibilities are defined, always in the light of the best interests of the minor. Also important is the creation of three registries held at the National Centre for Social Solidarity (EKKA), i.e. the Register of Unaccompanied Minors, the Register of Professional Commissioners and the Register of Centres for Unaccompanied Minors, in which all Centres for Unaccompanied Minors are registered and thus acquired a clear picture of the flow of unaccompanied minors and entering a class into the chaos of their lives. Finally, by common Ministerial Decision, the necessary formal and substantive qualifications to be met for the choice of the person as a professional Commissioner are laid down. It is of paramount importance for the protection of workers that Article 9 is laid down in order to make a contribution to the contractor and the subcontractor, in the sense of responsibility for the whole, by limiting to a minimum the risks to the worker. It is also important to define the term 'insolvent employer', which means extending the framework for the insolvency allowance granted by the OAED to workers. Article 11 preventative measures are taken to protect workers from heat stress and to introduce practical training or apprenticeship into the "ERGANIS" system, which is unknown until now. The number of trainees may not exceed 17% of all employees in the firm, and overtime or overtime is announced electronically at the latest prior to their realisation, while the financial assistance of EUR 1 000 - Article 35 - of the unemployed is inappropriate and incompatible. It seems to me that these are very important provisions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Committee, it would be dangerous if you were to have small and bitter accounts about this bill, which on purpose contains important regulations, and it is necessary to vote for it by universal acceptance of the members of the Greek Parliament, which will give special prestige to the process of its implementation. Otherwise, you will confirm for a time the predictability that you see, but in particular the many expressed amoralist perspective with which you adopt the bills or not. So I urge you to restore this lawlessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague Mr. Ioannis Delis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's bill by the Ministry of Labour, the government thinks it is taking the opportunity to sell its new fairy tale to the people to present themselves as a charity. That it has brought back collective agreements and that it slowly makes wages and pensions. Of course, the government at the same time closes its eyes to BSE and reassurs him, telling him with meaning not to worry, since it will strengthen the quality and effectiveness of the social dialogue and promote healthy competition. Because BSE has already made it clear: no return to the former regime of collective bargaining, only a flexible and effective mix of collective bargaining. Even the word "contracts" does not use. This is the BSE strategy and it is now also SYRIZA, which, of course, has the constant flexibility at its core, namely the smashing of fixed daily working hours which, combined with the evolving drop in average wages, guarantees their profits. And since Sunday's short celebration, the cheap government's propaganda, was uncovered, when a month ago, the JRC's proposal for a law was finally discussed - as a timely question, of course - for the real reintroduction of collective agreements which, combined with the reintroduction of EUR 751 to the threshold of all wages, would give workers a breath. The Government correctly rejected this proposal by the JRC, which was, of course, a proposal of over five hundred labor unions and federations, if you are looking for that representativeness, which you made candy and rejected this proposal with the funny justification for unconstitutionalism. Well, when all this happened before 2012, did we have another constitution then? In recent years, however, government propaganda has not really known any limits. One after another, the government officials and the Prime Minister themselves are engaged every day in a miserable trade of hope around the digital pension cuts from next year. With implied, but also open, caught by some of Moscovisi's abrasion statements, such as Mrs Ahtsioglou, they are trying to create a climate of optimism that it can ultimately not apply these cuts in personal differences, aiming at the waiting and tolerance of the people. At the same time, of course, they assure their lenders that they will not take unilateral action and that they will not be surprised. I mean, both in the robbery bread and in the country guard hammer! Well, who are you selling all this to? Who are you kidding? Aren't you the ones who voted in the recent draft of the fourth assessment that you would cut the time and every year about EUR 2.5 billion from pensions, the total of EUR 7.8 billion by 2022, to get out of the anti-grass surpluses you agreed on? Aren't you the ones who signed that from 2025 onwards the state funding of insurance will only reach the level of the national pension of EUR 386? Aren't you the ones who validated all the pension cuts and PASOK and the New Democracy, which are now demagogating, by the law of Carmaniola of Katragalos, by turning pensions into tips? Are you all together, now and again, not - and first - of course the Prime Minister - who are cutting off every debate on the return of the loss of workers and pensioners, telling them face-to-face and stumbling them that we will not return to the sinful past? Only you know, lots of words are poverty. So let the fairy tales and vote today on the amendment tabled by the JRC and it provides for 'with nil and with the stigma' precisely this: to abolish the rules of the Katrugalos Act which provide for the recalculation of pensions and to avoid any reduction in the personal difference. Do it today. Otherwise, stop mocking people. The same happened with VAT for the islands, which you made, and with the flag of your so-called philosophical policy. What's going on here? First of all, to reach agreement, there is no longer a reduced rate of VAT for the Aegean islands. You voted for it. Even this little reward for the difficulties of insular life, you all abolished it together, SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, when you voted together on the third memorandum that explicitly provided for its abolition. So leave the crocodile tears. What, then, does the government do and even gets so chopped up? It maintains the reduced VAT for only five islands - Mytilini, Chios, Samos, Lero and Kos - and not all. And keep it temporarily, just for five months, until the end of this year. In other words, it connects it directly with the refugee and even plays this. Will you now tell me, here the government called in the Aegean Sea NATO, would the European Union also stick to its reactionary choices, which it is voting on with both its hands? Only, you know, these choices and policies of the European Union have turned the islands into'soul warehouses', permanently blocking thousands of refugees and immigrants, with the agreement of the government. So leave the big words on island and go to the works. Now vote on the amendment tabled by the JRC, which proposes maintaining the reduced VAT on all, but all, the Aegean islands, until, of course, as the JRC suggests, VAT on those essentials which are widely consumed by the people's family. A moment ago, of course, the Minister rejected both of the JRC's amendments. The conclusions come out on their own. If the people don't fight, white day won't see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Konstantinos Barriotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. The debate on the bill is almost complete. But you all know that the PASOK governments in post-policy have a great past when it comes to regulating labour relations and pensions in that country. With this logic, and on this side we have seen with great sympathy the bill and we have tried to be constructive. We have also tabled proposals and reservations and objections in the past days and today. My task, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Kegeroglou, followed by a term of office at the Ministry and a very great deal of work, has been mentioned in detail on matters that I will not come back to. Our reservations and our opposition essentially to the law of Katrugalo and the logic with which the insurance has been dealt with we have all tabled by the opposition - and the Democratic Alliance. It was evident from the first moment that the law did not guarantee a long-term sustainable solution to the insurance. The result is known: Cuts. Mr. Koutsoukos previously set a very 'gloss' example of the result of a drafting of EUR 1.300 by the Katrugalou and what will mean from now on by the cuts planned to take place on 1-1-2019. Today we are putting forward a comprehensive proposal, not only to suspend pension reductions, but, in fact, a comprehensive proposal to discuss and revise a failed insurance system and to replace it with a new one, on the basis of proportionate studies which have not been carried out, as you remember, or have not been taken into account, to be more precise, last time, not only to protect pensions, but above all to create what I said earlier, a viable insurance policy for the next thirty years, which, unfortunately, does not have. At the bottom of the line, it is very difficult for pensioners today to support cuts of up to 18% of pensions, at the same time that the government is announcing at the same time the very time of congratulating the cattle - let me express the expression - surpluses, over-tax results, which will be distributed in the way we have seen distributed in the past. I think it's very important that we see the insurance system again. It is a good opportunity to see it now in depth and to try and solve it all together. I shall speak to you for the rest of the hour, above all for two amendments. I'm going to talk a little bit about one, because we agree. It concerns cannabis and the separation of textile extraction products from those which have high levels of tetrahydrocannabinol, which we will automatically accept because it is very reasonable. Above all, I will talk to you about users who die on the road and specifically about trying to resolve this issue, which is extremely important, but also about the government's reluctance to go ahead with a very simple, very tangible and very easy to implement. The Members of the Democratic Association have tabled an amendment to this bill for the operation of medically supervised use of psychoactive substances. All of us who live and move in the center of Athens, Piraeus, Sophocles have seen the image of these people who use the pavement or are lying on the sidewalk, as I saw yesterday very characteristic - with the OCAN rescuers over their heads in the sun of the afternoon. It's a very common image. People who use substances on the road are a specific subcategory of users, who are extremely difficult to reach by the services. They are too negative for them to approach and attract themselves to therapeutic methods differently. They are those who have the highest percentages of complications from use and are the group in which the HIV and HCV epidemic, hepatitis, really has a colossal dimension, as they share the syringes and do not follow any safety rule etc. Throughout the world, reality requires - the reality is that these people exist and we cannot unfortunately nullify them with all the other methods that exist and are used - to adopt the so-called 'policy to reduce the damage'. These are substitutions with the opioid programmes for exchanging syringes and for protecting the road and the surveillance areas, which have been applied for many years, in at least one dozen countries from Norway to Australia, with excellent results, recorded in the literature by reliable organisations such as the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Relief. There is also experience in Greece. In 2014, the NRV ran the pilot project “ESTSEOS” for the organisation and operation of supervised stations, with also excellent results. These centres are approaching very marginalised populations and reducing risky behaviours, so we have fewer complications. It is characteristic that no deaths of overdose have been recorded worldwide by overdose within these centres. The self-evident reduction in public use is also a huge project. I spoke earlier about the image we know in Sophocleus, the Marseilles Field, Marseilles and elsewhere. All of this is very important and must be addressed. The immediate establishment of this operation, as provided for in the amendment we have tabled, is a tool in the hands of the OKANA and the self-government, which are calling for it. We tabled the amendment after repeated harassment and after consultation with people on the road every day and facing the problem. It is capable, in the estimates of self-government, to reverse the image that I said before and their ambition is to approach the real difficult users, the people who live on the road. It's really urgent from the point of view that every day lives are lost and every day Hepatitis C and HIV spread. Unfortunately, I hear and hear that the Ministry has stated a good thing about the substance, but it is unprepared - it says - to accept the amendment. I didn't hear the reasoning. I hope I can hear it, because no one has referred to it in detail. I know you've been quoted briefly. Besides, it's not your subject matter. I understand that. The truth is, OKANA has both the framework and the staff. He's been working on this. He's worked these kind of centers before. The municipality also needs spaces and is prepared to save resources. I really don't understand where the uproar is. I really hope it's dry party ego. If that is the case, in the next bill we will have to see our proposal, our amendment adopted by the government. We'll be happy and support it. The unjustified rejection of such a serious issue also exposes the government that wants to be called progressive. And if you want, he exposes us all. It's an easy change, which should have happened yesterday. It can be done today. Unfortunately, the government does not want to do it tomorrow. It avoids discussion and institutionalisation. I really hope that it is not the well-known trade competition between different methods and different psychiatrists who have positions and contradictions, but which do not concern this issue. All methods of dealing with drug use and abuse are legitimate. Those who can respond directly today to the dreadful picture that exists mainly in Athens are really urgent. We in this matter - and I will close here, thanking the President for his tolerance - will come back to every relevant bill until the government is ready to implement it. I think this is a very important issue that does not take up postponements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. To say beforehand to Mr Barriotta, because I know this and I have dealt with it, and I have dealt with it very briefly, the substance of his amendment - we may also agree to return it, because it is not competitions selfish - it will be... I know why we've also dealt with the Ministry of Health with this issue and with the institutions. But there are some critical details that we need to deal with at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u172	'Will she...'? You didn't finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u173	...we accept very soon. That is what I am saying about the substance. I'll go down. I shall be presenting two amendments, one which I and one of my colleagues, Mr Constantine, who cannot be in the Chamber because of health problems. One amendment concerns the regulation of interpretative problems concerning the calculation of the ceiling for additional fees to be paid to TEN members by research programmes. It is the general number 1662 and specific number 133 and relates to a change in practice in the calculation of the additional wages that took place in 2005. While until then, on a regular basis, these fees were calculated per year, a change was made with the 2005 MUL per month, resulting in some people who in the year were within the limit, the month being out of line and the allocation process initiated. This is a regulation completely simple and interpretative, and it is - I would say - for reasons of legal certainty on the substance of the matter and, of course, relates to cases which are not related to irregularities or mismanagement of research programmes and arise only from this interpretative provision retrospectively. The second concerns the extension of the covering of the contract to the arbitrators. It is the amendment signed by Mr Constantine. You know that referees work in a magazine, offering their services. With this provision, the provision we are proposing is definitively resolved the question for the benefit of the arbitrators, who will now be able to remunerate and join an insurance scheme for the benefit of the ECA which will receive insurance contributions from the employment of the arbitrators. The final settlement of the matter will be with the incorporation of arbitrators, assistant referees and race observers in the bachelor’s room.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u174	Parents pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u175	It's not like that. I'll go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u176	The arbitrators are asking for this amendment to be taken back. Now they texted us. Who did Constantine agree with?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u177	Please don't interrupt me. You have the way, if you want, to say your opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak to the rest of my time about the bill and about the issues that have been raised in the debate today. What are we doing with this bill? In order for the citizens and the people of the hired labour to know, I would therefore like to argue with you. In fact, we are legislating on the line, in the direction that supporting labour rights, apart from socially just, is also a prerequisite for fair growth. I'd say we're doing this in a systematic way. Anyone who seriously wants to monitor the legislative work of the Ministry of Labour and who is objectively objective can accept it. With stable and accelerating steps, we build with a core the defence of the world of work. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have the highest performance since 2001 with two hundred and eighty-eight thousand jobs seventy in the first half of 2018. We know very well that we have a very difficult road ahead of us, a great deal of up-to-date, structural difficulties in bringing up this major employment crisis. But we have a stable front and orientation. We consider this not only our primary responsibility towards the world of work, but also our identities, a feature which we are not going to dismantle. We are barely going to be much stronger - I would say - to support it over the next few years. And this, in spite of Cassandra, follows on from many other initiatives that we have taken. We are very close now - a few weeks, I would say - to reintroducing the collective negotiations that previous governments have taken legislative initiatives down. And that's a reality. I'm not saying a moment's exaggeration. We are in front of the process - and this has passed and been enshrined in the financial framework - of the gradual increase in the minimum wage. And I don't think that contains any exaggeration of my claim. At the same time, I think we are healing major wounds in the polyps of public social security. I repeat, public social security. Because here we have repeatedly seen from the standpoint of opposition parties - you know what I am talking about, we recently heard it - a closure of the eye to private insurance, which was the real objective of depreciation and dismantling the public social security system. We are therefore trying to fix problems there too. These are debt write-offs for workers such as journalists, for example, who had excessive debts due to their ‘double’ insurance. We are also attempting a very critical intervention, and I would say in terms of the value and substance, of a strategic nature, on the issue of the unaccompanied children who are refugees, in this weakest crucial part of this population. All this so that we do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, in a landscape - and I am talking about the most comprehensive landscape - where Europe or at least many European governments go in the other direction, in the opposite direction. Look at what is happening in the refugee, look and see that the main divider line and in the upcoming European elections will be between these fingernailing forces and teeth trying to keep the values of solidarity and humanity, I would say, against this population coming to Europe from the wars, the poverty and the disasters that the forces themselves want to build Europe - a fortress are causing. As on the other hand, too many governments and governments of large states go in the opposite direction. They are going in a direction of deregulation of the labour field, reducing the rights and knock-on of the core that we want to put in our policy and our strategy, a decent job. It is clear that we have a long way to go and it is also clear that we have difficult conflicts and difficult work. I would say that it is at the same time worrying that the movement of workers, the labour movement in general, is at a recession at European level and does not claim - that is the reality - in these areas of labour rights which are important and I think they can rebuild, to a certain extent, the core of labour rights. Two - three things I would like to say just about what changes the bill for workers to know, because that is the crucial element. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If I may, two more minutes. Firstly, the change of the fine's architecture to undeclared work gives, ladies and gentlemen, this necessary incentive and courage, I would say, to the worker who is in this difficult position to mobilize, to denounce this situation and so there is a way out, a solution to this very difficult problem. And I think that this is the core of this change in architecture, because it is not just the fines, and you don't need to read monthly tables again. We told you one, two, three. Let us confront the real figures and the real issues that exist. So it gives this incentive to the worker and, at the same time, the structure of fines, but also the possibility of a discount on the part of the employer by recruiting the worker permanently is a very important thing. In addition, if we do not forget, a business which is in such a process, is under the eye of the labour inspectorate, which has taken very serious steps, and I do not think anyone disputes this, for the next two years, so that this development can be monitored. There are many others, such as the question of contractors and subcontractors, which is actually being done there, such as the question of apprenticeships, such as the question of electronic registration of workers and, of course, of the announcement of overworking and overtime. After all, it is a package of measures which are in the positive direction and I do not think any of us can seriously deny that. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank you for your tolerance: since Commissioner Moscovisi said what he said - I do not want to repeat it - in the Senate a few days ago, we have heard and seen everything in this Chamber. What's the nuclear element? There is an outburst of willingness, and I am talking about specific aspects of this House, and now we should abolish pension measures and a marginal atmosphere around it. I'll say another side. Did they give a signal somewhere else? Did they not know that those in particular who did government work, who ruled, what exactly do they go to play on this matter? And is a government not serious, a government majority, which, instead of retreating to this explosion of willingness to abolish pensions here and now, speaks and says that in a coordinated way and when appropriate, will it put forward and cannot raise this issue? In fact, in a context that we will actually be able to bring about a positive result. Everything else cannot stand in serious terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Mada, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u179	I'm done. So I say that we will, with stability on this road, move, with methodicity, with determination and be sure that the Greek people will do everything in order to bring about a positive result and I think we can, as we have achieved so far in very difficult circumstances, achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Evangelia Vagonakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u181	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are debating today a bill of very important importance, having now entered a positive juncture for the country, just a few days after the Eurogroup which sealed the completion of the fourth evaluation, as well as crucial decisions to reduce the Greek debt, but also few days before Greece's total exit from the memorandum, in August, which opens a political cycle for our country. Because in August, together with the memoranda, the treaty under which the country was operating from 2010 onwards, namely under conditions of limited national sovereignty, endless negotiations with institutions, assessments, and sometimes unjust or ineffective political adoption. Next time we are obliged to win back lost time, taking advantage of the flexibility we have gained, implementing policies to strengthen the large social majority, to support the world of work and to relieve the weakest sections. And this bill, which is a follow-up to the law introduced in September 2017 and which had been voted for super-grouply, is moving in this direction, namely the further shielding of labour rights. And along with this effort, the differences between the conflicting political plans are at the same time, that is, what the Greek Government is implementing and what is described above all by the Realism. The first is for strict working frameworks in the workplace, for strengthening workers' negotiating power, for applying the rules and for observing labour legislation. The second, expressed from time to time by Mr Mitsotakis, considers the collective agreements to be a left-wing ideal, overtaken by eight hours and a balm for entrepreneurship flexible and insecure forms of work. And all of this is said at the same time that the competitor of Mr Mitsotakis, the Chancellor of Austria, who is part of the same political family as the New Democracy, is establishing a 12-hour week, thus writing one of the blackest pages in the history of Europe's working rights. But let me turn to the main points of the bill. Priority is given to upgrading the control mechanisms to ensure that the existing rules are applied. With regard to undeclared work, I would like to remind you that in 2013 undeclared work in the high-infringement sector was recorded at 31,61%. In 2017, the rate was limited to 12.48%. So everything is a matter of priority and will. It also changes the architecture of fines for undeclared or implied work. And that is a basic reason why they did not give justice to the undeclared worker who did not give him any incentive to claim his right. Thus, the reductions provided for in the old scheme will only be granted once the undeclared employee has been recruited because, as the Minister said, the data show that when the audit mechanisms identify undeclared workers, the penalties are in most cases not accompanied by intake. The fine comes in, the employer is punished, but no positive consequence exists for the undeclared worker. Therefore, the deterrent nature of the fines is maintained, but at the same time an incentive is given to undeclared workers to denounce their exploitation. In addition, there is the introduction of multiplication of fines in cases of relapse and clauses are introduced in order to ensure that enterprises which will be recruited after the fine are not able to dismiss staff to balance the number of employees. Another section of the bill relates to contractors. For the first time, rules are being introduced into the contractor status. To date, there are infinite cases in which contractors were used as a vehicle to circumvent wage labour. It is not the problem where we have clear cases of delegation of a project, which has a specific duration and is completed. The problem is identified in contractors that cover through fixed and long-term projects, such as bank cleanliness. Many times workers are left unpaid, unable to find out who to claim their jobs. This is what comes in perfect, as the entire and mutual responsibility of the contractor, the contractor and the whole series of possible other subcontractors is institutionalised, to the insurance and labour demands of the workers. This, in combination with the September regulation, which provides that breaches of labour law do not have access to public money, puts a class in the blurred working landscape of the contractors. In the insurance policy with the bill, the insurance cases of insured persons, who, due to the complexity and complexity of the system, were found to be in debt with huge amounts of contributions either because they had a parallel insurance either because they had left their portfolio open or even by errors of the own funds and so suddenly found themselves in very large debts without knowing it. In the face of this paranoia, we are confronted with an organised procedure in order to close these wounds and remove these burdens from people. In short, having now won the bet on the sustainability of insurance, we can win the fight with the distortions and imbalances of the past. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, for unaccompanied refugees, the Ministry of Labour introduces an integrated legislative framework for the most vulnerable category of refugees, refugees, who try to save themselves from wars, poverty and violence, arrive in Greece without an adult escort. The Greek state, by ensuring that all necessary measures are taken to protect the applicants who are most at risk of abuse, neglect, violence, exploitation and marketing, provides in the law the appointment of a commissioner for each unaccompanied minor on the Greek territory, who has the duty to ensure the best interest and the overall welfare of the child.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, my colleague. The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u183	The controversy that is being done - and now we have seen it in all versions and previously with the PASOK - New Democracy and today with the SYRIZA - New Democracy - has a dose of great irony towards the workers, against the folk layers, irony and mockery at the same time. Why are you fighting, anyway? I'll start backwards. New Democracy and PASOK have not broken the standard of living of workers? You were not the one who took all the measures for both pensions and wages and for privatizations, health and education, etc.Huh? Today why are you yelling? You have found an opportunity because SYRIZA is stealing your bread to be caught now by an amendment, which is half, on the pension issue. What does SYRIZA say? Did you or did you not take any other anti-grassroots measures when you took the government? Yes or no? Just tell us things, no theories. Once you've taken the government, the bitch from the previous ones, firstly, have you abolished any of the anti-grass measures? Oh, no. Did you take new anti-grass measures? Yeah. Have you voted for others that will be taken in the future? Yeah. So, what's the fight for? A friendly game is within the same stadium, because you are both playing in capitalist development, in the capitalist economy and, of course, in the gospel of the European Union. What is the motto now in genuine Greek total government? "We are getting out of the memorandum, we have achieved the fourth evaluation and without measures..." - a great lie - "stop supervision and return to normality." We want to comment on this. What exactly does'return to normality' mean? Does it mean that what has happened these years is erased and returned to the pre-crisis levels? Oh, no. Is New Democracy and PASOK dare, the Change Movement - go under the new name - or none of you say that we're going back to the pre-crisis levels? No, of course not. What do you mean, normality? Because for us it's normality. Regularity The SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the others who claim to be supposed to be the government authority mean that the fact is, for instance, that nothing changes from what has been done and you will learn workers to live in these conditions of terrain and hell. That's what you mean. Would you abolish, if you say we come out of the memorials, the thousand Memorandum Laws? Will the SYRIZA - ANEL Government or the New Democracy, which says it will come, abolish this whole legislative framework? No, of course not. In fact, you are calling on the Greek people, the working class, the workers, the people's strata to live in the conditions of hell that created the legislative framework that you have voted on and extended as well. For us normality, at least at the smallest level, it means returning to the pre-crisis levels of wages, pensions education, health, etc. For the Communist Party of Greece normality means that those who produce the wealth will enjoy it, they will have it in their hands, they will manage and enjoy it and they will not steal a handful of rich people, a handful of predators, a handful of parasites, which you serve consistently and the New Democracy traditionally and SYRIZA - ANEL, which surpasses it in some places. That is normality, and for that the workers must fight. Second: Debt. That's a great success, history. Who won from the debt? Let's see! So tell us what the working people will gain from the arrangement, as you say, of debt. What about the debt? The debt's down? Oh, no. It's still the same. Who's gonna pay for it? Again, the Greek people. What did you get? A 10-year transition for EFSF loans. You are pushing towards the future, toward the grandchildren and the grandchildren. So who wins from this ten-year transfer? There is a lot to be said and the substance is hidden. This regulation provides security for those who are going to lend the Greek state today. It provides security to get their money back, after the decade you secured it doesn't have any other major credit obligations. Who, then, does the debt regulation serve? The lenders again. What will the people get from debt regulation? Nothing. He'll be called to pay his head's hair. Of course, you have taken care of that. Because you're cutting off that you're supporting the world of work, everyone can say what they want. Let us see, then, the monstrous primary surpluses, 3.5% for four years, at least 2.2% by 2060. Who's gonna pay for this? Aren't the workers gonna pay for it? Are the industrialists, the shipowners, the bankers going to pay for it? To them you're very galantic. I will mention one or two elements that we have discussed, but it is important to repeat them so that people know them. So you have already established and committed the Greek people to paying for new anti-grassroots measures and you are pretending to support the work with some things that are neither aspirin nor aspirins. I don't know what it was before the aspirin, because I'm not a doctor. It is, sweet outside and inside, bitter, all the measures that have been taken. Thirdly, 'Supervisory leaves', and indeed the Minister said so, others said so, and the previous speaker said so. They say that 'we are now gaining our national independence'. Well, who are you kidding? That is because you have baptized the supervision, the troika and the controls, and so on. a cooperation and support plan, does that mean that the surveillance has stopped? Well, who are you kidding? European semesters don't they exist? Are there no controls by the European Union? And after August, they won't all be in the Ministries, will they not be in the hotels or I don't know where else? What is the outcome, and what is the difference, of course? You have agreed on the whole institutional anti-grassroots framework and it will enable you to slaughter workers directly and not the partners, as everyone can tell them. Why? Are we lying? The agreement says that we are committed to shielding all reforms that have taken place in the previous period. What reforms have taken place in the previous period and who have been beaten and crushed, beyond bureaucratic and operational issues? Weren't they all rival and anti-grassy? Therefore, this is good news, you commit that you will either apply it or leave the trade unions and New Democracy and the others now. The framework is foreseeable. After you accept the framework of the European Union and all the rest, exactly the same policy will apply. Are there any positive measures in this regard? Of course there are. For who? For the big chapter. Release of investments from all controls. Secondly, aggressive promotion of privatization. Who's gonna win? Water, energy, transport. Thirdly, I'll say a few to see who you're with. The worker's pensions are cut and leave the rest. We'll see them along the way, if there's any suspension, that's no trick of the election. Unnecessary? It's cut. Who are they hitting? People's mattresses. Yes or no? Taxation. Who's he hitting? People's mattresses. What are you doing to industrialists and big capital? Reduction from 29% to 26% plus 'development' packages, i.e. free money, and then you go out and say you're with the workers. Sure. You say that you are with the workers and in practice and in your policy you are supporting the industrialists. You cannot do any different, since you are choosing capitalist development and the European Union as a strategic objective. And then you say 'we have a strategic difference with the New Democracy'. I do not want to go any further in theory. After you have a strategic difference, remove all the laws that have been passed by the New Democracy and the PASOK. Will you do it? Oh, no. You will apply them and extend them. Indeed, 'at this moment' - it says - 'we do not do so in Europe at 60 hours, in Austria in particular, which is governed by the People's Party and so on.' A small question: When you voted with New Democracy on the European directive, does driver hours go to sixty hours, yes or no? What's that? Can't you just vote for them? Of course not. Either you want or you don't want to. Isn't that sixty-hour? Because he's in the drivers? The doctors, the hospitals will be known. I don't want to say it now, 'cause it takes a lot of time. With active and inactive time, etc. He's going to six-hour, yes or no? Will you also come along, if the European Union is to be applied and applied by the European Union, to implement it? Of course you will, and I will say why you will apply them. In my opinion, the Minister is honest with that. It says below on contractors: 'We cannot intervene in the public sector because Union law will be overthrown'. Talk to the Minutes. Now there's a little left. So the conventions are coming back. 'We' - he says - 'we have them flags'. Are the collective agreements reintroduced in August? Let's see. Let's start with basic things that people who are involved know about. First, the minimum wage from which it will be fixed? From free negotiations or government decisions? The government's decisions. Brutsi law. Here are the strategic differences. New Democracy has done him, you're the one who's applying him. Isn't that right? Are we lying? Oh, no. What does the Brutsi Act say? That the government will determine which criterion? The competitiveness of the economy. If it's competitive, we'll give so much. Who will determine the competitiveness of the economy? Is it going to be objectively? Oh, no. The interests of the capitalists themselves. Is that what you're going to tell me to do with the collective agreements? I'm going to ask a question. Let us assume that tomorrow there is a 751 negotiation and there is a deadlock between employers' and workers. Who are you going to support?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u184	OMD.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u185	OMD. Why should the government not make a decision and say 'I support the workers and give 751'? You won't. You dare not even imagine that you will do that. So you're applying. You know, this has influence. The general collective agreement of employment is influencing. Those who know and do not live in the towers that some live know how the situation is shaping into the labour movement, given that there is indeed a retreat and you have put your hand, Mr Manda, very deeply in this retreat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u186	What do you want me to say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u187	The second issue. So let's go to the collective agreements. When will it be compulsory? What do you think? They will be mandatory when the signatories, the employers' organisations, account for 51% of the total organisations. Now you're putting BSE in Northern Greece. If he leaves, if the hotel owners of Corfu or Rhodes make a different one, the collective agreement will not be signed with general effect. It's not a whole thing, that is. So that's a trick. It's not mandatory. You say it, but when we go to analyse it in practice, they come out that it's backwards and the least you do is cultivate illusions, not to say that you're mocking people. Employers: rules are in place for contractors. What rules? It's one that's coming in, that the business will be responsible, not just the subcontractor. Is the contractor's own status unrealistic? Who do the contractors serve? The workers or the business groups? I'm just saying it so people can hear it, because you know it, but you're doing everything you don't know. Why do large business groups give contractors and subcontractors? Are they losing out of it? That's simple. Do you know any businessmen to do something and lose? No, because they win because there are no collective agreements, because there are no overtime paid, because there are blackmails, because why. It's a series of reasons, which are well known. The transfer of responsibility, of course, is a measure. Is this going to change the situation in the contractors by transferring responsibility to the entrepreneurs as well? In our opinion, no. And one more thing: How do you tolerate slavery? What are you? Left? Who left? Left and slave trade? Rentals? Movers? Working class rabbis? And you're supporting it? Remove it. Why don't you do it? Why don't you do that? Does the worker need a middleman or what I said before, so that I don't repeat the word, so he can go to work? So he's not gonna make that middleman? Is his mother's soul going to work? Aren't the businessmen who will get the workforce too? Where are you, doing what you're doing to support the world of work? Remove it now. Tell me the slave trade offices are closing. It's the end of history and they're going through OAED and elsewhere. You're not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u188	Didn't we do it for the hospitals?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u189	That wants a general law. I'll go there, too. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Palphie, finish it up. You've reached sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I am interrupted. The second issue. So what do we say? Ensure the application of collective agreements to all, but all contractors and apprenticeships, which are not apprenticeships. If you live in the Ministries' towers - uncomfortable - and elsewhere, it is good to go for a walk to the hotel industry and other branches to see what apprenticeship means, what work for children, without hours, in the fourth basement. We've been through some of these. But today the situation is completely undone in how many they get and what they do. Compulsory, therefore, collective bargaining and not free work for young people. Public: Why don't you solve this? I will give you two examples. I'll start with one that's clay: EAP. One of the reasons why the Greek Air Industry has all these problems and that it cannot even respond to the orders is because it has subcontractors everywhere. So why don't you remove them and hire staff, since they can be profitable and, in fact, they're one of the best airline industries, despite the mess that they have in relation to their size and work with great...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Palphie, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u193	I shall conclude, Mr President. I have to give a small answer to the question of undeclared work. If we make an account with the new measure you're taking, the employer's coming out again. To make a parentheses, there's also taverns who can take one, etc. and pay the bride with 10,000 fines, but we're talking about the big ones. I mean, if you do the bill from the 10,500, which you're reducing to 7,000, if you pay six months, as you say - and it's right - three and three, he'll pay 850 euros. Again won is 2.150. That's right. It is ironic to those who live in this society to say that it will be an incentive to report to the Labour Inspectorate and that it can secure a job. Once he's denounced the Labour Inspectorate, say hello to my plank! It doesn't work again not only in this business, but it gets into the black list all over the industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Palphie, finish it up. It doesn't work anymore!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u195	I'm done. In conclusion, as far as the amendments are concerned, four tabled by the JRC. Why don't you accept them? Is this one of the things Mr. Mandas said about a responsible government? Why are you playing with the game pensions? You know what you're gonna do with them, close the eye, hang the world up to have a wait. Now tell them we don't cut them down and the story ends. It's simple. What are they gonna do? Will they drive you out of the European Union, or will they hang you in the Constitution, or will the Greek programme be destroyed? No, of course not. It's also playing there if you even get a little deal. The New Democracy is also coming wicked, Mr. Metarakis, where I did not understand: Why suspension? Why don't you agree with our position? You say that we will suspend and come to the government and negotiate, as if you were going to do something different. And you are mocking people with this amendment you are making. In conclusion, the people cannot and must not swallow SYRIZA's new fairy tale or New Democracy's late agony for workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u197	Fight: it's called rupture and overthrow. If he doesn't fight, if he doesn't fight even the nuggets that may be there, some positive will get them back. This is the solution and the JRC will be in the front line.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President, for the little time you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u200	Not a bit. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. In the amendment by the Ministry of Finance of a general number 1663 and a specialist 134, to the topographer present by the agronomist Stelios - Constantine, the date of the topographical from ‘10-11-2017’ is replaced by ‘26-6-2018’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u202	Mrs. Ahchioglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say that the amendment will be accepted under a general number of number 1662 and a special number 133 for the calculation of the upper limit of additional fees to be paid to members of the IMPs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with two words with what I have just heard from Mr Pafile, who obviously claims to be the genuine expression of the interests of the working class. I have no right to claim more than he does, but it makes me a real impression that the genuine optimist of the working class calls on workers not to report to the Labour Inspectorate, saying that anyone who denounces in the Labour Inspectorate next day does not find a job. I really...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u204	What are you talking about? Let go of these now. These are provocatives. Is that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u205	I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u206	Mr Paphie, no, that's no way of dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u207	What do you think we're here? "Do not denounce": and you did not just say so, but Mr Katsotis said so a few days ago in a similar question: "Whoever denounces in the Labour Inspectorate the next day does not find a job". Congratulations on your positions! And the Labour Inspectorate is the right hand of the employer! Congratulations on your positions!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u208	You should tell them in the living room. You should say that elsewhere. Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Palhei, please let the Minister finish and ask me why you should clarify. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u210	But leave sorrows!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u211	To let go of misery.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Katsotis, the Minister will say what she wants, and if you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u213	You disgusting?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Comrade, what are you doing? What do you want? Who are you defending now? Sit down! Are these images of indignant MPs? Can't you stand the rage anymore? Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, to withdraw Mr Katsotis! Listen to "fucking"! Aren't you ashamed? I know more about you! Listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Paphie, is the Minister in Stepma? You don't respect her speech? Mr. Palhei, when the Minister's finished, and you want to make some clarification about what you said, I'd like to give you the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u217	Provocorn things I don't accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u218	But you can't make such a break, please. You are not a parliamentarian yesterday. You know that. Madam Minister, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u219	With regard to collective agreements, I have heard the representative of the JRC once again say that the basic principles of collective bargaining are not restored, and we are lying, as we say, that they are coming back and that we have legislated for them to come back. I heard him say that there would be no resumption of the expansion of sectoral collective agreements, because, he says, we predict that collective labour agreements will only become mandatory if they are signed by the employers that cover 51% of the workers in the industry, while commenting on the fact that we are living in towers - and I do not use the other expression that you said about pimps in the working class, to see who is using the expressions here - and we do not know what sectoral collective agreements are and what expansion is. I invite you to refer to Law 1876/1990. It is the law that defined the expansion of sectoral collective agreements. Set what it is to make sectoral collective agreements compulsory. It was voted on as a whole by the House and states quite clearly that the sectoral collective agreements, signed by employers' organizations covering 51% of the employees of the industry, are those which can be declared by decision of the Minister of Labour as generally compulsory. The government restores the institutional framework that existed. So, if you had a problem with compulsoryity, you had it before, and you couldn't have been born now. You say that this reintroduction is not a reintroduction and that this government does not reintroduce institutional reforms, but it respects the institutional reforms of the former. The suspension of the basic principles of collective bargaining does not constitute a reintroduction of the former scheme? Does it not, in other words, recommend an eruption of a regulation - we say - anti-virusive, imposed in 2012? I think that with simple reason, without political comment, this is an absolute reintroduction. Is it not a reversal of an anti-government arrangement, which was also imposed in the period 2012 onwards, or is it not? I think it makes sense. You will allow me to come by closing this brief comment on Mr Pafile's positions, on a few things about the bill we are discussing today. We are completing the debate on this bill at a - I think - a very critical juncture for our country. On 20 August, regardless of whether anyone wants it or does not want it, this country is coming out of the long period of comitology and memoranda. This development has not been spared. We got it through very specific work. The Greek people also succeeded with their own efforts and sacrifices. In order to understand the importance of the successful completion of the programme, however, I think - at this point of turning the country into a comparison with the past. Mr. Metarakis said in his initial position that a government is judged by what he received when he took over and where he brought things. I think that's right, and that's how we have to go. So let's see what this government received when it started its work in January 2015. And I think the data is stubborn. When we took over the government, the country had lost 1/4 of the Gross National Product, 25% of its GDP. I think this is an event completely unprecedented for a country in a time of peace. Unemployment was hitting red. 26% was when we picked her up. He had reached the extreme number 27.9%. For young people, it approached 60%, a shameful percentage, unprecedented for all of Europe. I am surprised to hear Mr Brutsi saying that he has reduced unemployment in his own term. That's not what he knows. The New Democracy and the Papademos Government, which also participated in the Samara Government, delivered unemployment rates higher every time than they had received. In February 2015, we found a cash deficit of EUR 425 million in public funds. The country was committed by the previous government to higher surpluses of 4.5% of GDP, which it has never been able to approach. Even the first year its target was lower, 1.5%, and still could not reach more than 0.2%. The then programme of budgetary adjustment was not only complete, as I have heard many times said in this Chamber, but, as the European institutions have said, it has been out of the way. Where are things today? Greece in a few days' time comes out of the committee's programs in a clear way, without a credit line, without any new sects. Unemployment has declined over three years by six units. Today he's close to 20%. Youth unemployment has fallen by 10%. Today the results of the "ERGANI" were announced for the first half of 2018 and we see the most positive six-month balance recorded since we have data to date. So we have the creation of two hundred and ninety thousand new jobs in the first half of 2018. The country records positive growth rates. In the first quarter of 2018, we have a growth of 2.3% of GDP. I think you don't call this growth anemic, because I heard that also. It is almost six times the Eurozone average. From the cash deficit that we received from the EUR 45 million in public funds, we are coming out of the programme with a very important budget pillow of EUR 24 billion, which will allow us with very high security and a calm budget to plan policies for the coming years. And now we are in a position not just to catch up to the budgetary targets we set ourselves, but often to overestimate the economy to them and to be able to return the surplus by using the financial space that is being created. I have heard the rapporteur, Mr Mitsarakis, criticise two axes. The first axis is that we, the SYRIZA government, failed to reverse in three years the disaster that occurred in previous years. You didn't, he says, reinstate the thirteenth pension. He did not say 'which we have cut down'. You didn't reinstate the minimum wage. He did not say 'which we have cut off'. I can only acknowledge this criticism because it recognises the disaster, admits that steps have been taken and says there are many other things to be done. Accepted. The second axis of criticism, however, is based on completely inaccurate evidence. We've increased, he says, overdue time. Is that so? We received a hundred seventy thousand outstanding applications for basic pensions, Mr Mitsarakis. Today we're at the fifty-three thousand eight hundred. We received sixty-three thousand five hundred unpaid ones. Today we're at thirty thousand. We received fifty - four thousand unpaid applications for supplementary pensions. Today we're in the ninety thousand. So the reality is for those who want to see them. Then I heard him say that the New Democracy has reduced undeclared work by 27%. I shall return to the minutes the annual figures. Here it seems that in 2013 undeclared work was at 31%, in 2014 at 19.1%, in 2017 at 12.4%. So the reality is that the numbers for those who want to read them too. [[At this point, Minister Efi Ahtsoglou submits for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What the rapporteur did not say, however, about Officer Opposition and I think it is what he is rather reluctant to say, but has been said many times by the Chief of Staff, is that we really are divided by a very large world in the matter of workers. Indeed, there is a very large dividing line and dividing section in work. For our part, our position, that is, on the one hand, you hear it often from the government. On the other hand, you hear her from two mouths. Other than the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, Mr. Mitsotakis, you sometimes hear it from the BSE. However, there is an absolute matching to both the content and the time taken to give this reason. Let us see some of Mr Mitsotakis' positions, as they have been expressed by the BSE, or some of the BSE positions, as expressed by Mr Mitsotakis. Eight hours is over. Collective agreements are a left-wing idea. Collective labour rights are inconveniences to the labour market that need to be lifted. The three-fold expansion of sectoral collective agreements - I use them, I do not distort anything - overpowered sectoral agreements over individual or operational contracts and unilateral recourse to arbitration is a three-fold catastrophe. The pillar of private insurance is more than necessary. The only future for work is to become more flexible. The rules on the protection of workers in contractors cause bureaucratic costs and should be inapplicable. Even in the face of Mr Moscovisi's attitude and his statement on the possibility of reviewing the country's pension obligations, we had the absolute recognition of BSE and New Democracy. Mr Hatzidakis was upset that the Commissioner left open the possibility of a review of the measure. A few days later, BSE said that the non-implementation of the measure would cause a great turbulence on the markets. Today I hear from Mr Brutsis and read from the balls in the middle of the Officerial Vice-President saying that if cuts are not implemented, the social security system will no longer be viable. Do not worry, the public social security system is sustainable. Its viability has already been won since 2018. It is therefore clear that the New Democracy plan is identical to this plan, which Chancellor also implements in Austria, which abolishes eight hours and converts it into 12 hours. It also demonstrates this in the vote in the European Parliament on working hours of professional drivers. The New Democracy, along with the Golden Dawn, voted, among other things, for the abolition of eight hours of work every day and for the weekend. So this is the model of Officer Opposition for work. I think very clearly and clearly that it is often presented by BSE or by the President of the Police Department. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Our plan, which has also been reflected in the development strategy after the programme, has a central role: strengthening the workers' negotiating position, so that we too are so anxious and persistent about restoring collective labour agreements and strengthening workers' incomes, which is achieved in two ways: through collective labour agreements workers achieve better wages on all wage scales, but also through the stimulus to minimum wages, in order to give the impetus to increasing wages at all levels, as well as those who receive the lowest. We show it in other ways. I think we have proved this in practice with the law, which we brought to Parliament and passed in September 2017, when we laid strict rules on working hours and shielded the workers against undeclared, implied and unpaid work. I think that today, with the bill we are discussing and supporting, it is even deepening this effort. However, we are doing so in another way, with the Labour Inspectorate. Why? Because we have seen that many times the institutional framework may exist, but it is not in practice observed. That is why it is very important that the presence and strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, which is why it is very important for the workers themselves to build this alliance with the Labour Inspectorate and know that they can report there, so that they can be justified in cases of infringement by their employers. Mr Brutsi said that the New Democracy government had fought a great deal to combat undeclared work. What really happened? The EIC's potential decreased by 209 organic posts over the period of its employment. A total of 26 organic units were abolished. I know that a supervisory body is first of all the staff it has, first of all, its presence in the workplace. When you reduce organic positions by 20%, then you certainly don't follow a policy of strengthening it, you're probably depreciating it. It abolished the central structures of the service by abolishing the Legal Support and Information Systems Department. What do we do, why do we think this is our main arm to interfere in the workplace? We are completing its staffing and strengthening with additional two hundred staff, so we are effectively reversing this organisational decommissioning which had taken place in the Labour Inspectorate. We are heading 7.5 million NSRP resources to strengthen the work done by the Labour Inspectorate, and we are building an information system, which can also monitor through the risk analysis to indicate those companies that can illegally and therefore, more targeted controls and more efficiently. That's actually the job we're doing. So what did we see, precisely because we strengthened the Labour Inspectorate and paid attention there? And this is directly linked to the regulation of this bill? We saw that the fine of EUR 10 500 for undeclared work was very limited. It had a purely punishing character, because of its height, but it left two very important approaches out of its perspective: firstly, what happens with the undeclared worker the next day, since a business is caught with an undeclared worker, what happens next day. Secondly, what happens with this operation the next day if it repeats the infringement or complies. That is where we saw the following: firstly, that of the undeclared workers who were caught by the Labour Inspectorate only one third of them were hired the next day. Of these, 62% were employed were in parttime employment. I submit the relevant information in the Minutes. This analysis is worthwhile being carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] There were two things that we definitely wanted to tackle: firstly, finding a full-time job the next day and complying with the company. That is why we are making this change in the architecture of the fine for undeclared work, where the fine will only be deducted if the employee is hired under a full-time contract. In any case, regardless of the discounts, the employer will have three months' implicitly as a result of minimum justice for the undeclared worker, while in the event of a recurring fine being multiplied by 100% or 200%, depending on the times the firm relapses. So we are organising a holistic approach to the problem, which was based precisely on the observation of the results through the action of the Labour Inspectorate. As far as contractors are concerned, for the first time, we have set some rules on the contractor status. We establish the co-responsibility of the contractor, the contractor, the subcontractors, to workers for their insurance and wage rights, to their insurance and wage claims, but also to a number of rules concerning health and safety in the undertaking, compensation for dismissal, compensation for accidents at work. So we shield the worker, as everyone is now responsible to him. In any case, the worker will receive what he is entitled to, and in this way we are creating a dissuasive nature in concluding contracts where they should not exist, because he will no longer be responsible for the workers in the same way as all the contractors and the contractors. I have heard the criticism by oral BSE and by New Democracy that it would be too much for businesses to bear on this measure. I could answer whether they are charged or not in the matter. However, I think that in principle it is another question to answer. Can we accept workers who will become victims of practical contractors being unpaid? This is the question to which we should answer and not the question of whether this regulation can create bureaucratic costs for an enterprise. Our position - and the State Secretary, Mr Helios, said just now - is clear that here the burden, the risk cannot be borne by the workers, the risk will be borne by the company. After all, as I have already said, this rule of responsibility is a rule which has been established for decades in many other European countries. We do the same with regard to practical training and apprenticeship. We clearly define the limits of people who can be employed in an undertaking in the context of practical training and apprenticeship, and at the same time make their statement compulsory in the information system 'ERGANI' so that the Labour Inspectorate can check whether the legislation is in place there, check how many people are, check who they are, control their working hours. And so I think that this is what we are putting a limit on, I am not saying that we are solving the problem, but we are certainly putting a limit on the abusive practice, which we have had so far where companies have in many cases replaced jobs with apprentices. We do the same in the case of overworking, where we now make it compulsory for overworking to be recorded, just like the rest of the changes in working time in the electronic system, so that it can be checked and therefore, in the end, paid, because that is the point of keeping time. These three fields, contractors, apprenticeships, overworking, were all three areas where the existing framework was already suffering before the memoranda. They are not fields where infringing practices took place after 2010, they were fields which were already completely hard to protect work before 2010. And right now we're taking a first step to start regulating them. Obviously, there is a lot that can be done. And I think that no one must answer these issues in particular and take a very specific position if the regulation, each one of which I have mentioned, helps workers whether or not they are shielding their rights, whether they are better at guaranteeing their wages or not. I think that everyone should respond, especially those who speak in the name of the workers. I would also like to say a few words about insurance, following once again the method of the rapporteur for Civilian Representation, what we have received, where we are: The previous government has given us an insurance system with a deficit of ECU 1.1 billion. in public funds, after eleven successive, horizontal cuts in pensions up to 50% and four hundred thousand unpaid pension benefits, mainly, subsidiary and single, in our drawers, which I mentioned more thoroughly. That was the situation we received in insurance. Today, where are we three years later? We have ensured the sustainability of the system in the medium and long term. This is guaranteed regardless of what will happen with the personal differences in 2019. We have paid arrears, and I mentioned in detail the numbers for where we are, what we still have to pay. So we have closed down the wounds of the past, and at the moment we have the possibility of correcting and correcting errors made by the previous governments and which we inherited. Such a mistake was illegally withheld health contributions, which were returned to pensioners at the end of 2017. Such an attempt to heal wounds is the settlement of debt debts, accumulated by the end of 2016 in up to a hundred and twenty instalments to the free professionals and the self-employed. Such an improvement is the substantial revision of the table of irreversible diseases for those receiving disability pensions and which we have done in a very exploratory and intensive way. We believe this to be the case today with the regulation in the bill, which gives the possibility of deleting disputed debts and surcharges accumulated to 31-12-2016 at the expense of insured persons precisely because of the complexity and complexity of the previous legal framework of social security concerning the subjection or not of parallel insurance of two or more insurers. These are briefly our actions for insurance. These were briefly the actions of Officer Responsibility for Insurance. Just say two phrases about the arrangements that exist with regard to unaccompanied refugee in this bill. They are the arrangements that lay down the rules for the necessary measures to protect unaccompanied minor applicants and which this draft law introduces the committee system, it institutionalises the competent institutions and defines precisely the responsibility of the Commissioner. I think it is of particular importance at the moment when the Ministry of Labour, through the portfolio of social solidarity, through Mrs Fotio's portfolio, puts these rules on minor refugees, for this is exactly the moment when Europe is confusing a debate at a very strong and very high level on two conflicting plans to tackle the refugee - immigration problem. On the one hand, it is a project that wants a European collective solution on the basis of responsibility and solidarity, and on the other, a project that is defined on the basis of national embodiment and the perception of a fortress Europe. I think that the provisions which come from this draft law show that the Greek state will continue to be a state that operates to combat exclusion on the basis of solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that the fact that since the end of August the Greek Government will certainly enjoy a greater degree of freedom of policy makes the questions which must be answered more intensively in the basic partition, in the basic division of labour. In the labour market, two opposing political plans, which I think defines in their own way and in this bill, are totally contradictory. The questions raised are specifically and I think that nobody has the luxury of not taking a position on them: Are you by strengthening workers' negotiating power, strengthening their incomes, or by compressing labour costs? Are you with collective agreements or employers' arbitrariness? Are you in line with the rules on the protection of work or with the majestics of infringibility? Are you with a development that respects the workers or the bounty hunters who "carry cannon" and leave unpaid families? Are you with the legality or the great offenders, who flee the workers in the refrigerants of goods so that the Labour Inspectorate doesn't find them when they do checks? Are you with the public social security system for all or with private social security for the few? Are you on eight hours or 12 hours? These are the questions to which you Members must now take a position. We took a position, the government took a position with the reintroduction of collective labour agreements, with the law that it brought to the House in September 2017 to combat unpaid and undeclared work, with the law that we now bring about rules on contractors and the recruitment of undeclared workers, with the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, with our development strategy that we place at its centre of work. So the government has taken a stand on these questions. And the Qualified Opposition has taken a stand on these questions. Mr. Mitsotakis has it. Mr Brutsis took it today with great clarity when he defended all the structurally necessary reforms, as he called them, which he did during his term of office, namely the reduction of the minimum wage by 22% and 32% for young people, the suspension of collective agreements, the reduction of redundancies, all these necessary reforms which he defended today, saying that they are necessary to reduce unemployment. So the Qualified Opposition has, I think, been clearly put to the questions. The divisive cut is there, it's clear and in front of you, and I think it's time for you other MPs to take a seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Minister. I've seen you, Mr. Paphie. Give me a few seconds. The Minister, Mr Petropoulos, wants to inform the House of a legislative improvement. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Paphie, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, it is a correction after the legislation I have made about church legal entities in public law. While the relevant paragraph was omitted, it did not leave the title. Therefore, the words ‘and ecclesiastical legal persons governed by public law’ are deleted from the title of Article 4. That's the legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister or he does not listen, he does not notice what we say or hear from some who advise or consciously provokes provocatives. Let her choose it herself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u225	You know he's listening, and he's careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u226	What did I say? I, on one point, say that under the new arrangement workers are motivated to report employers to the Labour Inspectorate, I say that this is not enough on its own. There are the Minutes. Because what everyone knows is terrorism in the workplace - I am not saying exactly these words - and that when someone goes and denounces the Labour Inspectorate it is fired, and sometimes it gets into a black list and cannot find a job. That's probably out of the question. And where's the provocation? She says the Minister says the working class party calls on workers not to go to the Labour Inspectorate. Are you serious? That is why I say 'Where do you live?'. Do you not know the battle of our trade unionists to go to the Labour Inspectorate when they are set up and alerted many times when they go to court? Don't you know how many communists and other radicals, not just communists, are fired just because they fled to them? Don't you know that? Instead of denouncing the employers who practice terrorism, you say that we are calling. We literally tear up and pay for it. Those who discovered them were kicked out the other day at the factories. Don't you know that? This is not the Minister of Labour, I'm sorry. He's a Minister of Labour. And a lot more when you twist what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u227	That's beyond it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Paphie, Mr. Mada, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u229	The second thing I said with an extreme expression, which I do not usually use, is that slave trade offices are pimps of the working class. That's what I said. Why are they doing with laws that have been passed and you have extended them and released them? They're doing the middleman to get a job to make money. Why would the OAED not do that, for example? They win. It's not like they don't win. That's what I said. Now, if you're defending slave trade offices, it's your own account. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u230	All right, Mr. Paphie. The necessary explanations have been given. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u231	What you said we can see from the Minutes. What I said you also said can be seen from the Minutes. I said you said that when a worker reports to the Labour Inspectorate, he knows most of the time - and you may not even say'most of the time' - that the next day will be without a job. You think whether this phrase, which you have not done for the first time in this House, but I have heard it in this House several times in connection with the Labour Inspectorate, breaks the fear of the workers or strengthens fear on the part of the workers, which we all accept exists. You guys think about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u232	Is that what you said? You said we call on the workers not to go to the Labour Inspectorate. That's a provocative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Paphie, you don't sound. Let this end. Explanations were given from both sides and recorded in the Minutes. However, we must continue with the process. There have been nine Members of Parliament and the second Chambers, and if they wish to put an end to a Minister, I will inform the House. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. We should not blame the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for not voting for the reductions only once in a period of deficits. He voted twice and even in a period of excesses! Fifteen days ago in the medium term they again voted on the pension cuts from 1-1-2019, not to mention them. You are also unfair to them for collective agreements. Mrs Ahtsoglou’s circular has been drawn up on 32921/13-6-2018 on the extension of collective agreements, which concludes: “If not submitted by the member register’s employer organisation, the extension of the collective agreement is not possible”. This is Mrs. Ahchioglu and you're unfair. He's dealing with collective agreements, but to cut them off. I put it in the Minutes, Mr President, so that we can know and see what the government is doing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For three and a half years now, unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has failed in all areas. Apart from charging us with additional measures resulting from the third inappropriate memorandum, it then failed to create the conditions for economic relaunching. It has not promoted a single investment and not only that, it has prevented too many. This has its consequences on employment and the insurance system. He has failed in the negotiations and has signed up to 2022 3.5% of surpluses and up to 2059 2.2%, which means high surpluses, high taxes, high insurance contributions, noose in the neck of all Greeks. He opposes the New Democracy and does well if he thinks that its own policy will be forgotten in this way. But it is the New Democracy, which is the Conservative party with these points of view. But why does he copy it to too many? And here we have the tragic situation for all SYRIZA speakers to come here today with the same speech - carbon, to say the same things and not to stand on serious issues. Why should workers and small and medium-sized citizens trust you? About the group redundancies you voted for? For the lock out? For new reduced pensions issued since May 2016? For the reduction of old pensions that you have voted on twice and is foreseen from 1 January 2019 or for the reduction of the income of employees, pensioners and all low incomes by abolishing tax? To vote on you for the abolition of the CSCE? To support and trust you in increasing the health contribution from 4% to 6% in all pensions and from 0% to 6% in subsidiary? They're paying the cost to uninsured people, not you. The increase in insurance contributions is choking free professionals and micro-enterprises. Is that why you are supported and trusted or even taxed on the unemployed this year? Or for the taxation even of disabled persons with 80% or more disability, for micro-enterprises that are not a pension? Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that the lower pension with the signature SYRIZA - ANEL was first reduced to history in 2015 from EUR 486 to EUR 392? May I remind you that you have suspended the basic salary increase that had to be made since the beginning of 2018, on the basis of the law in force, if you like, and had to be EUR 650 today? So when do you keep it? For an election present? That's how you're dealing with it? Or to be entrusted with the extension for three more years of the "watch" for collective agreements? Because in 2015 the ban expired, the commitment that existed expired was terminated. To be trusted with the benefit of widow's pensions or with the continuation of lower wages, which you referred to just now, to those who are 25 years old and below the public. It's unauthorized. Public work, the programme which has already been announced, provides the public with the municipalities for under 25 with a lower rate of 20%. Is that possible? This has been introduced once for incentives for the private sector and you are applying it in the public sector. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u235	It's good for the private sector, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u236	Well, you vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u237	Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u238	Proposal for a law: Not only cancel the reductions provided for by 1-1-2019. That's not all we say. We say and proceed with our proposal and the redefinition of the country's insurance system. Appropriate studies need to be updated immediately. It needs to change the pension structure, the system of contributions and funding, the abolition of the Katrugalo Law. It's no different. There cannot be a sustainable insurance system unless we start by updating and changing the perception of the tripartite funding. We have tabled a specific proposal for the excess and the use of the property instead of the scrapping and for hydrocarbons, and the viability of the insurance must be supported up there. Undeclared work. Listen: it was 38% on our day and with concrete measures and a plan came down to 19%. The Prime Minister came here and at the Ministerial Council during the debate on the economy and said on the subject - I have it here and I will table it in the Minutes - that the undeclared work of 19% that received it fell to 13% - the Prime Minister said so - and with a specific institutional framework. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, what do we want? Shall we raise her again? Because the system that you are going to implement does not close the eye to businessmen, as some have said, closes the eye to the bad entrepreneurs, to those who bet on the exploitation of the worker, to those who bet unfair competition, to those who respect the laws and fulfil their obligations vis-à-vis the workers. Unfortunately, you also had a provision that our rapporteur said to me you agreed to withdraw. That's disgraceful! The worker, he says, who should be insured, can sign a responsible statement and not be insured himself, but someone else must be insured. Where did they copy these? God knows! What morbid mind put this device in? To be insured instead of another worker!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Comrade, please complete. You've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u240	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me say that we have tabled another amendment, which Mr Barriots has analysed. And for it, there was a negative attitude on the part of the government. The government must see the proposals on time and problems must be solved with sustainable solutions and with proposals put forward and not after a holiday. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Some fellow Members have asked not to speak, so there will be an economy in time. I will now give the floor to Mr Davakis and then to Mrs Aylonitou, to Mrs Kaphantaris, to Mr Sarakiotis and to Mrs Anagnastopoulou, and then to Mrs Anagnostopoulos. Mr. Davakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, a classic bill, classic on how to legislate the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, we are discussing these hours, a bill characterised by heterogeneous provisions, insurance, undeclared work, the protection of unaccompanied children, refugees and migrants. These are regulations that you think will face problems that your legislature has created, such as the Katorugalou law, where the results of the great political cost, malfunctions and arrhythmias have already begun to appear beyond the great injustices that he has caused. The most unacceptable, however, is what has been happening in recent years. On the one hand, you say we go out in a few days with a clean exit. Now, what's the clear way out of the memoirs for the retired, the worker, the unemployed, the farmer of the former OGA, who's about to retire and still doesn't know what pension he's going to receive and all the fellow sinners, I can't understand it. On the other hand, you continue the same violin, saying and undermining, I would say, "vote to us, because, look, soon after we have elections, we will not apply what we have voted on in terms of reducing pensions and duty-free." And so please beg and give land and water to the lenders to give you this extension. I think that's not things. We were caught up in a difficult situation four years ago and tried to bring things where the best was. You have sold hope, you have lied to the world and we have now come to the point of excruciating reality, creating what we are denounced today - I believe - we as well as the Opposition. To the individual now, ladies and gentlemen. There is a regulation on the insurance of farmers, because of course you hadn't foreseen in your legislation, namely the Katorugalou law, that there were particular categories of people insured in the way they were insured and in their working life. Be careful, Minister, I see you're watching me. Two years later, there is no uniform rule of insurance and benefits for the ECAI and no significant problems have been solved, particularly in its implementation, i.e. in computer systems. Those who have the misfortune to apply for a pension at this time, now that we are talking, do not know when they will receive their pension, nor how much they will receive, what pension they will receive, or whether they are paid with advance pension payments, if they are lucky. Because in the former OGA, for example, no new disability pensions and allowances were paid and we do not know when - another huge issue - those born in 1951 will be paid. The other issue - and I am now looking into the eyes of Mr Petropoulos - which is the absolute shame - to call it political disgrace, social disgrace, human shame? - and the Minister knows what I mean, they're widow's pensions. Do you remember, Minister, two years ago, when it was slowly escalating because of the great complaints of these women, that is, the widows who had this problem, I asked a question specifically about the issues affecting the widows of the deceased members of the Armed Forces, which you said: 'But what are you saying to us? Here the Armed Forces delegations gave me also plaques that thanked me." What happens now, you know - and I feel that you know it genuinely - and the Minister, whom the widows are trying to visit, but I do not know if she has been visited. I believe, however, that a solution must finally be found to this issue, annoying our humanity, the sense of law and all that constituted by a solidarity society, the behaviour that this government has shown to the widows of people who have paid their contributions for years and have been striving for their work and who have been lawful in all things. In addition, we are also waiting for the decision of the Council of State, which, it seems, will once again change the data. With regard to changes in legislation to deal with undeclared work, what is worth noting is that it is a phenomenon that is directly linked to insurance contributions which, of course, you have increased to the detriment of productive citizens. You punished the formals and law-abiding. At the same time as contributions are increasing, contributions have been frozen. I think that all this is selective not to solve the problems, but to exacerbate them, to worsen them and to create more and new ones. I should like to refer to the two amendments which have been tabled. One, which is very serious for us in the oil-producing regions, is the amendment of the Ministry of Rural Development. Whenever the amendments come, there should be a representative of the Ministry responsible, in this case the Ministry of Rural Development. 'Cause now you're looking at me, too, and you don't know what we're talking about. And you're right in this case. There must be representation unless you are informed and handy to answer. The issue of tacosy is a classic illustration of the malfunction of the newest Greek state and its occasional treatment. Why am I saying that? My county, Laconia Prefecture, is a prefecture of olive production. We are tempted every year with the issue of tampering. We still do not know what impact this delay can have on the whole process and because of climate conditions. We had already pointed out the problems caused by the procedure required by No 4412/2016, which is a time-consuming tender procedure. This must be added to the late and this year's ministerial decision on the allocation of appropriations, the delay in the notice of seasonal staff and the fact that the contractors' participation is falling, with the result that in many areas in the Laconia Prefecture the competitions are declared barren. And because we need to have a new competition through the ESADI, the National System of Electronic Public Procurement, we do not know whether there will be any sprays and when. The issue is handled by the region, but not by catalysts. Actually, he's handling the whole case. She's having legislation. You are now bringing this amendment. I believe that a more permanent solution must be given, earlier and not now that it needs to be completed. In other words, workers and those who would have been involved in the sprays should already have taken up work. We have now entered July and, unfortunately, things are extremely unfavourable. We propose, Minister, that the amendment should not come into force since the publication of the State Newspaper, but go back a month, at least since 15 June of this year. This will give a solution so that the new atrocities are not declared. This is very serious. We have a great deal of oil production this year and it will be a pity that these people, who expect their income to survive for the next few years, have this problem. I shall end with the amendment by the Ministry of Finance on the costs of moving military personnel. In particular, by means of the rules contained therein, the Government extends for the third time the period of approval necessary for the procedure for calculating the travel expenses of officials. Mr Kammenos came here - in the difficult position he is in, because no one now takes him into consideration, as it appeared that he cannot impose a policy on his partner - and said yesterday that he told Mr Juliarakis about travel. I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council should finally be issued, which describes the procedure for calculating the travel expenses of officials. Every time we come here and take extensions on the road topic. It is disgraceful for both the executives and all of them who give their best of their lives and their struggle for the Armed Forces. That's all I wanted to say. I feel like everyone's watching us and making their conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Mrs. Alonitou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, the other day I was talking to a European colleague and I was trying to explain to him what the memorials brought to our country, but he couldn't understand. He insisted the memorials came to reduce the debt. Who else could, after all, have been the reason for their existence, if they did not reduce the debt and if they did not pursue this objective? And yet, the debt was climbing up where it climbed to unreasonable heights, despite the PSI, which haired insurance funds and bond holders, without compensation. However, ladies and gentlemen, one of the real objectives of the memorandum was the establishment of flexible forms of work, which have come to stay. They were born in the government of Samara. The instrument for enforcing them was an increase in unemployment. Increasing unemployment, therefore, has led to wage squeeze, free working hours, undeclared work, unpaid overtime and, in general, to the non-implementation of labour legislation. The scene of terror was supplemented by the abolition of collective sectoral negotiations, which brought the minimum wage together with the more favourable regulation for redundancies, the implementation of lockout and in general the complete deregulation of labour relations. All these fine things for the world of work in our country would have been successful if this strange government of SYRZA - ANEL had not come to an end, listening to the terrible things it is doing: it takes the country out of the deepest source of memoranda, which has thrown it down in PASOK and New Democracy - it is, of course, competing who has pushed more - it regulates the issue of the reintroduction of collective agreements with the principles of expansion and more favourable regulation, it negotiates the issue of collective redundancies in the best way, it does not even discuss the issue of recompense and corrects bad texts by restoring employment, insurance and social rights. Because this government does not even understand that there can be growth in this country without its benefits being dispersed into the world of work, in the world that produces wealth. Because that is its philosophy: the policy for many. How, then, can I not today welcome the draft law on insurance and pension arrangements for undeclared work, the protection of workers and all that it has, etc., which comes to restore and correct the working environment of the workers? How can I not salute the shielding of the working environment not only as a restoration of any injustice, but as a primary and fundamental component of the development process and action? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is part of the fundamental differences we have in relation to you in terms of work. You see the dismantling of labour relations as part of your profitability while we see the upgrading of labour relations as part of sustainable development. And this is a left footprint of this government. Completion of the programme on 20 August, collective labour agreements are reintroduced, the increase in minimum wages in 2018 is under way and rules enter into the labour market, rules that will be respected. For example, today's bill contains provisions relating to undeclared and undeclared work, where provision is made for the possibility of a reduction in the fine if the employer proceeds to recruit the employee under a full-time contract. Thus, we move on to a substantial change in the nature of the fine. We are now leaving the strict punishment for the employer, giving him the possibility of deducting the fine by hiring the undeclared worker. At the same time, however, we give the worker justice, after at least three months of insurance contributions, plus three months, if recruitment occurs. The worker thus ceases to be afraid and has for the first time been motivated to file a complaint with the Labour Inspectorate, in the case of employers' arbitrage. In the event of a relapse of the employer, who now knows that he will have systematic checks, sadness can reach the sum of EUR 30,000 at all. Deferred work, unpaid overtime and avoiding payment of insurance contributions appears to be the rule in the area of contractors. Kuneva's phenomenon is the extremist expression of such arbitrariness in this area. With today's bill, therefore, brakes are being introduced in the area, where the responsibility throughout the entire work chain for workers and the whole range of labour legislation, i.e. wages, allowances in the event of redundancies, insurance contributions and health and safety. It is no coincidence, after all, that the leadership of BSE stands contrary to all these changes. They are those who, in every difficult negotiation, were on the side of the lenders against the Greek Government who was struggling to keep the insurance, labour and social rights of citizens. You will tell me now: here the BSE comes without a reason and is placed to apply the pension reduction. Would it not fight so that collective labour agreements, redundancies or lockout never come back? Kojam crisis has come to this country. Should he remain untreated? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill includes many important articles, such as the transfer of real estate in exchange for only their maintenance in order to save the buildings from the abandonment, but also the wider interest in the revitalization of the city centre, until a comprehensive system of protection regulation for the most vulnerable category of refugees, the unaccompanied refugees, who have been appointed a commissioner, to know at every time where every unaccompanied child is on the Greek territory, so that they do not risk abuse and exploitation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on the way to the poll, the choice will become more and more clear to the citizens: on the one hand, it is the powers that defend the world of work, which defend the social state, which defends the interests of pensioners. On the other hand, they are the forces that defend the interests of their few friends and sponsors by investing in redundancies, job crash, the collapse of the social state and the collapse of the insurance system for the benefit of private insurance. So be patient, ladies and gentlemen, of the Officership and people will send you back to the opposition, because you have not learned your lesson so well: to exercise it constructively for the benefit of the country and the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the Ministry of Labour's bill, a bill which is indeed another step towards restoring normality in the vital workplace. From June 21st and definitively after August 20th, our country came out of the committee and memorandum regime. Our country, which in 2015 was on the verge of bankruptcy, is now normally on its feet. Whatever the Civic Opposition, and more generally the Opposition - why have we heard today - one thing needs to be considered: Where are we really dating? We come out of the memorandum policies that were primarily aimed and the first steps were to reduce labour, labour and insurance rights, the deficient insurance funds. We come out of the policies that reduced the country's GDP by 25% and pushed unemployment around 27%. Here, I note that in 2017 it was closed with GDP growth around 1.5%. We are getting out of the working jungle that dominated the five years 2010 to 2015, which, as I said before, unemployment reached 27%, and now it's around 20% and something. Our country returns to normality. There's been a lot of noise. What do we mean by 'normality'? Is it normal to return to the growth model implemented by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK in 2009, in 2008? That's the return we're talking about? Oh, no. We are talking about returning to normality and applying another new development model. For the first time, our country has a specific development programme. He never had a development plan. The main question that exists today and after August will be even clearer: by progress or by maintenance? With the news or the old one? The answer is: By making progress in a new model of development fair, with respect for the environment, meeting the needs of the people and focusing on man and worker. The previous governments failed. New Democracy, KINAL, Opposition generally failed by telling them that this government would fall. Since January 2015, we have heard this. They've already failed everything. And the evaluations are closing, and the country's heading out. But here I will say: What are they doing now? They're enlisting fear. I now appeal to the people who listen to us, to those who listen to us. They enlist fear, because, as Thucydides said, fear eases memory. They enlist fear and terrorize the world and possible reductions in pensions and all that we hear about. Why? Because they want the world to forget who was really the one who cut the pensions thirteen times, when the allowances were cut off, a Christmas gift, a Easter gift, that in 2013 the minimum wage in one night fell to EUR 586 and EUR 510 for young people. At the moment they are showing enthusiastically in relation to government policy, which is in fact showing their real fear, because it gradually restores issues, and here labour data and rights, such as the reintroduction of collective agreements from September 2018, the measures on undeclared work, the strengthening of the EIC with staff and EUR 7.5 million available from the NSRP, incentives to recruit undeclared workers with the abolition of undeclared work, and indeed incentives instead of punishing fines, which have resulted in what? The most likely dismissal of the worker and deprivation of natural revenues for the public. Significant steps are included in the contract staff bill, also concerning the OAED and the OAED solvency allowance, measures on apprenticeship and practical training by enrolling young people employed in enterprises. Many others refer to the bill. All of this is one of the first steps in restoring working normality. We put rules, we put terms, we set limits on the working landscape. Because the attraction of investment that our country needs - and we are all talking about it - regardless of who works in this direction and who is just words - requires a regulated working environment. It is a mistake what has been said, and on this one has also worked on previous New Democracy and PASOK conflicts, that at the low labour costs investment will come. It's something that didn't happen. What's their model? Do we, then, want to be like some countries in Southeast Asia with the fragile interests and the non-proliferation of the people? Oh, no. We want a Greece equal partner of the European Union who is trying and working towards bringing Europe back to its fundamental values, solidarity, the social state and democracy. Unfortunately, Europe today has moved away from these points of view with the right-wing reversal, which also seems to be working, the recent eight-hour abolition and the introduction of 12 hours in Austria and much more. It is something for which, of course, the Chief of the New Democracy has also been placed in this regard, 'finished eight hours' and all of this. In conclusion, Mr Ministers - the Minister is not here - I would like to bring back to the Greek Parliament, knowing the sensitivity of the Ministry of Labour, a social problem which, first of all, concerns the pensioners of the National Bank, but also about four thousand workers at the national level. Sixteen and a half thousand pensioners with a unilateral movement of the then national administration in November 2017 have seen their monthly benefits decrease by about 40%. It is an issue, a problem which concerns the abolition of subsidiary provision by a special account called LEITE. This is now, for ten months, creating a biopollution problem for the majority of pensioners. I would stress that this is not a cut for actions by the government and the public insurance system. That's clear. This is a bilateral administrative relationship, workers and pensioners. In other words, it is not a consequence of any law. It is, however, about sixteen and a half thousand pensioners and four thousand workers. I believe that the Ministry will immediately take the initiative to bring both parties to the negotiating table, to find a solution, because a solution needs to be found, because the problem is now serious and it touches not only sixteen thousand pensioners, but also their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor and immediately after Mrs Anagnostopoulou, to complete the list of speakers. We shall proceed with secondary and the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, describe today's legislation of the Ministry of Labour as a station, a station in the country's attempt to return to normality and heal the wounds of society from the prolonged crisis. It is a station, as it declares the beginning of the memorial era and shows the way to go after August 21st, not the way of the twelve-hour period, chosen by Mr.Mitsotakis and his professional politicians and associates, who have not worked a day in their lives and come to denounce now and term the eighth hour. It is a station, as for the first time collective logic is set aside and employees become involved in the government's effort to reduce undeclared work and to combat employers' arbitrariness. A characteristic example is the deduction of a fine from EUR 10,500 to EUR 7,000 if the employer hires the undeclared worker. A new philosophy with fines is now introduced to be rational and to give the worker justice, in addition to the mere and ineffective punishment of the employer. In the past, there have been little times when the worker in vain sought the punishment of the employer without the slightest benefit to him. At the same time, he was often in the face of suffocating pressures due to the exhaustive suffering of the employer and, above all, to the lack of redress. Many companies have, moreover, closed down the years of the crisis, and cannot cope with these fines, since they have not been given a single alternative. It is now widely recognised that progress has been made in recent years. Suffice it to remind me that the rate of undeclared work in the high-risk industries has fallen steadily since 19% in 2014 to 12% in the first quarter of 2018, according to the figures of the Labour Inspectorate. This statistic is no accidental and comes to add to a series of positive news, such as the brake on the elastic forms of work, which was growing at a glimpse rate in 2013-2014, the surplus ECA against all predictions and disasters, the increase in new jobs and the overall reduction in unemployment by seven percentage points, the positive recruitment balance of retirements by 50 000 jobs for the period January-April this year. Are we satisfied? Certainly not. Apart from us, the success stores and the bilateral statements. There is a lot to be done and the demands of the world from us are growing as much as the situation normalizes in the real economy. Can we forget, however, the working jungle of 2010-2014? Remember that the Labour Inspectorate has become virtually inactive with the abolition of two hundred organic posts? The devaluation of the APRC to whom was the eye closing? Was it not by accident conscious policy not to talk about the attacks of Mr Samaras' neoliberal government, even against the unemployed who saw the unemployment fund being reduced by 50%? Not to talk about the punctual memory of making minimum and underpaid wages for young people. Those who have now legislated all the above come and are supposedly cut off on the working rights of young people. This country inherited New Democracy and PASOK, and this situation we have been called upon to manage by improving key indicators in recent years. For this reason, let us remember what the former GATT reports have said. For example, I'm telling you. February 2013: Eight out of ten citizens have even limited basic foods. March 2013: Disclosure Year 2013 for businesses, jobs and sustainability of the Greek economy. January 2014: Four in ten households have unemployed and one in three owes housing loan. March 2014, at the heart of Mr Samaras' success story: In investment lethargy the real economy. October 2014: Two thousand small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece decreased. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is a part of the fight against undeclared work. It recommends that the government should put an end to the unreserved working landscape, against every neoliberal logic and every Austrian model, which is rushing to embrace the Acoustic Opposition. There is no surprise, unfortunately, that we are not brought together by New Democracy officials with the most reactionary policies of a neoliberal Right in Europe. Moreover, works, days and sentences prove the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much Mr Sarakiotis. Mrs. Anagnostopoulos has the floor, and she's the last of the speakers' list.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with one parenthesis. I would like to believe that the New Democracy, even at this hour and after having put up nationalist tons to a dangerous extent, will condemn the statement made by its Member, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, on the Treaty of Lausanne, to which he referred as shameful and painful. I want to smack the alarm from this Step forward that such statements by the Party of Officerial Opposition and others that have recently been made on the occasion of Macedonia, which undermine international conditions at our national borders, jeopardise the country itself, especially in a period of revision in the region. Let me now come to the bill, for which a lot has been heard. I'm the last speaker. I'll talk about two things. One is the bill and the other concerns an amendment. The first thing about the bill is that everyone in the last few days has been struck because EUROSTAT's survey on demographics and forecasts has been published for 2060 that the country's population will be seven million. Everyone has been bewildered on a subject which is well known to all of us since 1993, and of course much sooner. And I say, they have been amazed and are all trying to say one thing about what they will do, forgetting one thing - and the Minister said so, and the Prime Minister said so for too many reasons, and for development policy, etc. - the holistic approach to problems. In this country over the last few years, we have had a fragmented, fragmented policy, which did not see the whole country, all the problems in a single way. I come to the essence of the bill without mentioning any details of it. We say - and the New Democracy and the rest of the Opposition - that we want to tackle demographic, development, economy, etc. When all scientists, the serious scientists, who are neither SYRIZA nor anything like this, say that they are being treated by strengthening the social state, social policy and industrial relations, otherwise we cannot have a recovery either in development or in demographic or anything like that, what exactly do they mean and how they are recruited by parties such as the New Democracy? Work relationships are alpha and omega. We cannot have any medium-term, long-term policy without net labour relations in favour of workers, without an increase in minimum wages, without a social policy to protect the rights of people of work. So let us not hear any answers broken down, like 'I brought this provision'. I was listening to Mr. Brutsi, and I went crazy as if I lived in another country. In other words, unemployment has fallen on Mr Brutsi. What else can we hear? All the evidence, all the numbers are here and oxen, and Mr. Brutsi told us he fell. These are the fragmented ones. The Undersecretary, Mr. Heliopoulou, explained it very well. I don't have to come back. I get any evidence that suits me to use as I please. The same happened with undeclared work. Other things we knew, and that's where fragmentation is of great importance. Is everything we can do? No, of course not. In this environment and in what we have taken, we take these steps to start developing a project, at last, a policy for that country which has medium and long-term consequences. I'll only stay in the policy for the child for a minute. I am - you will allow me, Minister - a admirer of Mrs Fotio. When we say that we want a demographic policy, a social policy, if the child does not focus, then it makes no sense at all. I am not going to say now about subsidised policies. I will not say about the infrastructure that was not available, for the subsidised policies that were not for the first child, for all of this. And we saw what we were dealing with when these issues came from the Ministry of Labour. I will say that the child as a body of rights does not matter if she is a Greekman, if she is another ethnic, religious and any origin. I'll just say one thing. I was seeing the Thai children with what effort they made and thankfully. A kid in his country has a protective net. Justice, the sensitivity of a state seems when this child lacks the insurance net that is his country. I will finish - please give me a minute, Mr President - with the amendment of the Ministry of Finance by the State Secretary, Mrs Papanatsiou, on Patras. Other Members have already said so, and the former Minister, Mr Dritsa, said so. I would like to say that the performance of the parallel front is a station and an illustration of what has been going on in Greece for years. There was a confusing regime, which we needed since 2015, when we took over, until today to solve this vicious circle, a vicious circle in which, however, the government did not close its eyes, did not say "do not do". There has been a huge effort, coordinated by many bodies, many people in the city itself, but also by the government, not to mention Mr Dritsa, Mr Flamouraris, Mr Pitsirla and, of course, Mrs Papanatziou, who has come to a happy end. I want to close down and say one thing. You can say what you want for this government from all the wings of Parliament. But what is most important is that it is a government, which is getting into the difficult, trying to give solutions and these solutions are trying to become part of a wider context that will finally give a vision in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u251	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. That concludes the list of speakers. We'll get through to the second grades. We'll start with Mr. Black. We'll start vice versa so we can finish with Mr. Manda. Please, Mr Mavroy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u252	Very soon I will be placed and I will not need a minute, Mr President. What I would like to say in closing the bill is that once again what I urge the ministers to see in the bills they bring is how they will then be implemented. And I said this in the speeches and in the committee and in plenary that ministerial decisions and joint ministerial decisions, which only exist in the bills and do not have deadlines and dates, are the brake on the implementation of the laws, and that is what you should look at. The second concerns the amendments which come as parliamentarians, which are essentially ministerial many times. It is simply by coming as parliamentarians because they do not have the report of the General Accounting Office of the State and it is something that makes it very difficult for us to vote in favour of them. Thirdly, I wonder who is currently following this House when there is the semifinal France - Belgium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u254	But there is always a fight between workers and capital, and in this struggle we are now fighting, Mr Mavrota. The JRC has dealt with many working ministers so far, but such a distortion and a symposium of its positions has never met. The Minister was very upset today, which she did not show at the meetings in Hilton with the troika. However, why was he upset? Because we said it was 'cancer shields'. Mr Sarakiotis came with his speech and completely revealed what the undeclared work arrangement comes to serve. Take his speech. The government claims that it will restore the contracts, the minimum wage. However, it does not say that this will not be a free negotiation, but will be with government intervention, according to the Brutsi Act. This law will continue to have it and apply to the issue of the negotiations on minimum wages, which of course also defines collective agreements. He says that we lie that collective agreements, like the government has done the circular, cannot be extended. It has been said here that the government, without disgraceful vetoing the employer's organization, is entitled to extend collective labour agreements to the trik requirement of depositing its member register, which is the full power of the employer's own organization. It is clear that the circular, which has been released and says what we have heard from another interlocutor, is that in the event of not submitting by the employer organisation of its member register and the resulting failure to comply with the procedure, the extension of a contract is not possible. So the Minister cannot be upset because we reveal here what her intentions are and what it will do after August where flies will be. It is also opposed to the JRC because by highlighting - it says - the practice of employers who dismiss those who claim, those who appeal to the Labour Inspectorate, it strengthens fear and does not help to break fear. We have here several time-consuming questions about redundancies of trade unions from workplaces, from factories. We have not seen any action on your part to break the fear of workers by obliging the employer to take back the redundancies for trade union reasons, which you have here all the legal arsenal to force him to. Yet you didn't do it in any cases. So who is it that strengthens fear, who is tolerated - not to use another expression - the persecution of trade union activity? I would like to say that the insurance regulations - which, of course, some will vote on - have nothing to do with what needs to be done in order to tackle major overturns in pensions and benefits for insured persons. The amendments we have tabled on pensions can be the principle of vindicating the fights of pensioners and widows' pensions. But you rejected them. What did Mr. Mandash say? That our amendment is not serious. Mercy, Mr. Mada. It is not your treatment seriously, because you do not want here to abolish this law of Katrugalo and in particular Articles 14 and 33 which provide for the smashing of pensions through recalculation in the new way, where new pensions will anyway be carved, but the old ones will be slaughtered with the personal difference, which you said "may be abolished". Our amendment responds precisely to this, not to recalculate pensions, not to be the way in which the Katrugalou law has introduced and reduces pensions by a great deal. I would like to say a word on the question of the operation of the sites for the proposed use of narcotic substances set by PASOK. The publication of the 'RIZOPASTI' which says today that this amendment is in agreement with the Government. Mr Mandas said so, 'we agree, we cooperate and we bring together an amendment', which he will do? The operation of such sites will encourage use, enhance the dishes, reduce the motivation for treatment. The effectiveness of this measure is not apparent anywhere in reducing or reducing heroin deaths. On the contrary, a steady increase in the use of heroin is deleted. I say this because it is not possible here to reveal the cheeky game that is played many times by the amendments tabled and the 'lady' which one is doing so, so that the government can go ahead with this regulation, which opens the way for such a logic that applies to seventy-eight such houses where drug addicts are pierced, with forty-five being in the Netherlands. Mr. Maddash knows very well, but he seems to be with that logic. As far as the subject of the bachelor is concerned, we have deeply disagreed with the bachelor. Those who have been working at the lawnmower so far were normally insured with a premium for two - three months who worked. Now they're going to the bachelor's. Why, then, this overthrow? Also, for ASEAN escorts, they should normally be insured and, of course, the Ministry should pay the escorts to these cases which cannot be served. So there is here a letter from Mr Peletides, Mayor Patras, on this amendment, which we shall of course vote on, calling for legislative improvements. Of course, Mrs Papanatsiou is not here today so she can see them and answer them if she accepts them. I imagine that this letter will come to your hands and hopefully they will be accepted and submitted to another bill, perhaps tomorrow's 'CLISTEN'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate on the bill in plenary, but also in the meetings of the committees before us, we have made our comments particularly on the core of the bill, and we have tabled our proposals which can really improve this bill, such as the removal of paragraph 3 in Article 6, on the possibility of an employer's being able to get a discount even if he hires any other worker rather than the undeclared worker. We stressed, Mr Ministers, that this might create trade patterns between employers and workers, which certainly do not contribute to the fight against undeclared work. The Minister has already accepted our proposal and we welcome it. Also problematic is the provision in Article 41 for the recognition of the SBV, the Industrial Association of Northern Greece, as a social partner, with which we disagree vertically. This is a regional body in a sector already represented by BSE. Your choice is confronted with legislation and will cause problems along the way. With regard to the amendments tabled, I have the following to note: I have referred in detail to the amendment tabled by the Democratic Reconciliation on the non-retirement of pensions. This, Mr President-in-Office, should be accepted first. I would remind you that the new calculation brings with it dramatic reductions in pensions and, from 1 January 2019, pensioners will lose from one to three pensions. Here, too, Mr Ministers, it should be pointed out that the pensions to date have been broken down, the subsidiary has been cut by up to 40%, as well as the CSR and family allowances. I would remind you that you were the ones talking about the dignity and credibility of pensioners. That's what you were saying in an election. Now the road is one. We must accept our proposal, the proposal for a law that we have already tabled to you. I come to Amendment No 1677/139. It is about the restoration of widow's pensions. By law Katrugalu whole families were left to their fate, without being able to make a living. Widow's pensions have become allowances. We have proposed that the relevant provisions of the Katrugalos Act be abolished and that widow’s pensions should be restored both in terms of their amount and in terms of time for them to be paid on a permanent basis and not on a temporary basis. Also very important are Amendment No 1653/124, which we tabled for the operation of supervised drugs sites, Mr Barriota. I remind you, Minister, when the 'THESIS' programme was run in 2010, that the results were impressive. All European agencies' studies show that supervised use prevents deaths from excessive use, contributes to the reduction of AIDS and hepatitis incidents and helps to establish the public safety system. This amendment, Minister, should have already been accepted. At least you should bring her back to the debate and vote very soon. Amendment No 1656/127 concerns the agreements on fraud, which are still pending. We had just asked the Minister for Rural Development a few days ago, and we had raised the problem. I give it to you for the Minutes. We had had a corresponding order last year. [[At this point the Member, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, presents for the minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We must, Ministers, at some point this practice of extensions with amendments to stop and the administration must work effectively. As for Amendment No 1663/134 by the Ministry of Finance, it solves a matter we have repeatedly raised for the terrestrial zone of the port of Patras. We agree and welcome you to our positions. Amendment No 1659/130 is incorporated into Articles 59 to 62. I would like to point out here, Minister, that you are trying to solve problems in the CFP. But addressing this issue must be comprehensive and not fragmentary. This is why a single operating regulation is needed for all CFPs, a sufficient number of CCPs and CCPs in the country are set up. This is where you're talking about 50 new RDPs. It's not enough. I would stress, however, that this is where they are being financed from the ordinary budget, as well as the shielding of labour relations and workers, who have remained contracted for all these years. Therefore, the amendment is a partial intervention. It does not, however, solve the problems of the CFP as a whole. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the identification of mothers, the regulation is in a positive direction as regards the non-separateness of mothers and pupils. But you should also address the question of hospital staff as described in your explanatory statement. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that it is time for the government to overcome party claws. We need dialogue and consultation to get the country out of the crisis and to overcome the problems of everyday life in particular. Besides, as soon as someone leaves the wrong path is beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. I have a statement to make to this House before I give the floor to Mr Metarakis. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior "Reforming the institutional framework of the Local Government - Development of the Republic - Enhancing the Participation - Improving the economic and development functioning of the OTAs [CLIMEN I Programme] - Arrangements for the modernisation of the framework for the organisation and operation of the NGOs - Arrangements for the more effective, faster and uniform exercise of competences in relation to the administration of citizenship and naturalisation - Other provisions on the competence of NGTCs". Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister in her speech tried to compare the performance of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with the performance of the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Samara - Venizelos. However, when we look at the results, the comparison is disappointing. In the undeclared labour sector, there were only twenty-seven units in the New Republic, only six units in the SYRIZA. In child poverty, Minister, because I looked at the evidence, the comparison is 1.4% reduction in New Democracy, 1% reduction in SYRIZA. In both cases you will agree with me that the risk of child poverty following social transfers remains very high, and that is a social problem which must definitely be seen, as all governments must see. On the issue of unemployment, the linear reduction that started in 2013 continued, but ultimately the unemployment level today is, on the one hand, much higher than the 2014 European Commission forecasts, because the Greek economy took steps back and the quality of the jobs created is much worse than the mix that existed in the previous period. Corresponding comparison for the insurance will show us that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government made twenty-new reductions in pensions or increases in contributions, voted to create the personal difference and abolish it further. Generally, on the issue of insurance, pensioners have been in a much less favourable position than they were before, the free traders have been asked to pay far higher contributions and since this year they will pay even more by changing the method of calculating contributions. In this context, New Democracy came and tabled the amendment with a general number 1664, not to freeze, as the Parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece said, but to abolish the forthcoming pension reductions. The government has repudiated this amendment, as it has called for similar initiatives from the other parties in the Opposition. The majority parliamentary representative said that a game with this amendment is being played. The government plays a game on the back of the retired people, starts the pre-election coup, but does not come here to make the brave decisions that retired people expect in this phase of the Greek economy. I shall conclude by saying that it regrets me that the government did not simply accept, but did not discuss a cross-party amendment, 1677, tabled by women colleagues from all parties on widow's pensions. It is indeed abundant how the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has reduced and changed the method of calculation and the right to widow's pensions. This amendment, Minister, must be debated today and the government must immediately bring about substantial and brave changes to this regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. I have tabled to the Minutes - if I am not mistaken, the Minister also tabled the data on unemployment and uninsured work. You can take them so they don't sound inaccurate. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that it is true that those who are investing in the problem to have hostages, rather than the problem itself, are not lost in society, but they will be lost at some point and have to understand it. Work: Always on equal terms if I'm not mistaken. As far as the mistress in the lawfulness is concerned, I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that, apart from those in the OGA, there was no person in the region who was insured with the lawfulness. That is why we have brought this amendment to a large extent. After all, the land workers themselves were not insured. Some people in their place said that SYRIZA continues the dirty work of New Democracy and PASOK. Is it a dirty job, ladies and gentlemen, to restore collective agreements? Is it a dirty job to reduce unemployment seven units, to grant public buildings for social purposes? Madam Minister, give it to the HIAD to please some people. Is it a dirty job to access uninsured people for the first time in the public health system? Is it wrong that we put brakes on the immunity of poor employers and contractors? Is social income wrong? Is it wrong to legislate on unaccompanied, unprotected minors who experience violence, poverty, injustice, insecurity in their everyday lives? Is it wrong that employers will now register electronically overtime that they never paid or charged? Is it wrong now that wages are paid not in the file, but through the bank? And you know very well what it means to the worker to be paid in a file, especially in the private sector. Is it wrong that we have legislation on the safety and protection of workers in order to reduce accidents at work? Is it wrong that we're putting class in apprenticeship? In practice they had pupils for workers. They had students, they didn't have workers. And everyone knows what that meant, but no one ever dared to mess with the big-timers or the big-time businessmen. Is it wrong to strengthen the AAR with logistical infrastructure and human resources, a devalued AAR until yesterday? Is it wrong that the worker uninsured, hostage, did not have any benefit in case of inspection and now takes three months plus three months and ensures the job by reducing the fine? Is it wrong to restore mediation? Is this a mistake - and if it is important - that we increase spending on hospitals and education? We paid more than 431 million in hospitals since 2014. And that's wrong! Is it wrong to regulate loans and to delete fines and increases in our farmers? It's a mistake that we made the FBI redundant from a loss of 1.1% billion. Listen, and I say it for some people. You won't put us all in the same dash, because we're not the same. These legislative interventions are recent. We know you disagree. And you're right to disagree, because that's how you document ourselves that we're two different worlds. It is our world that defends the weak, the defenseless, the world of work and production. And on the other hand, it is your world, the great interests, the lawlessness and the interlocutory. Rejoice them! Let me say this, Mr President, because Mr Brutsi has spoken about SYRIZA and collective redundancies. Presidential Decree 94/13-08-2014. Do you know what that presidential decree provided for? Mark the first team redundancies. Who's signing it? Mr Brutsis, Minister for Labour at the time, and Mr Papadopoulos, State Secretary for Infrastructure at the time. Why Infrastructure? Because it was about the first team redundancies at the C.T.S. I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At some point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people must learn the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Vardakis. We will close with the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Helios. Minister, you have the floor. Is that 5 minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Five minutes is enough. I won't abuse time. First of all, I would like to say that on our side we want to believe that all these days the Ministry of Labour has shown that we have listened carefully and with the dialogue and the comments made in both committees and in plenary. We tried to answer. It doesn't mean there'll always be agreements. It's normal for there to be disagreements. However, we have shown that comments have also been incorporated and there is a live dialogue. It wasn't a restricted procedure. I want to make a few remarks too quickly. With regard to the observation that the government's pension story opens up an election game and so forth. Today, if I'm not mistaken, it's already an article that said that the insurance system is not viable if the cuts are not made. I am saying this because we have seen the Qualified Opposition going back to its line on the cuts, that is, an attack on Moscovisi that why you are opening this issue today, a tabling of an amendment. Today, however, the friend Press begins to make a different account that they eventually need these cuts for corruption purposes. The government's position has been clear from the start. They do not need for either structural or budgetary reasons. It was a measure that was imposed through raw intimidation at the time the second assessment was closed and we believe that we have all the elements in our hands so that at the critical moment we can discuss this again. I shall mention a second point on the question of unemployment. The category of Civic Opposition is that today the decline in unemployment is less than that which would have been on the basis of the data provided by the European Commission. I can hear that argument. Just let me remind you that the European Commission - and not only the European Commission - and none of the institutions fell into a forecast from 2010 to 2015. That's what I think it looks like. And many of the institutions, such as the IMF, continued after 2015 not to fall into any prediction. Last sentence. There is no distortion or irritation on the part of the Ministry of Labour. In other respects, we see distortion and irritation. I do not really believe that it responds to the statement that in cases of redundancies following complaints no action has ever been taken on the part of the Ministry of Labour. There are cases where, after the work of the Ministry of Labour, these people have been reinstated. That it's not always possible, yes, to accept it. Nobody said it was always done. However, I do not think it responds to the reality that we are not doing anything. One is that. I'll say a second. I repeat it, too. It is our political opinion and we can have this political opinion. When you say that anyone who makes a complaint next day gets fired and can't find a job, you actually say "don't make a complaint". I mean, I don't think there's any distortion or anything. I'm hanging up with this. I think that this bill also shows that we can make critical areas in work and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned: 'Social and pension arrangements - Treatment of undeclared work - Strengthening the protection of workers -Committee of unaccompanied minors and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u264	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u265	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u266	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘Security and pension arrangements - Treatment of undeclared work - Enhancing the protection of workers - Commission of unaccompanied minors and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u268	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 30 April 2018, Wednesday 2 May 2018, Thursday 3 May 2018, Friday 4 May 2018, Monday 7 May 2018, Tuesday 8 May 2018, Wednesday 8 May 2018, Wednesday 9 May 2018 (morning and afternoon), Thursday 10 May 2018, Friday 11 May 2018, Monday 14 May 2018, Tuesday 14 May 2018, Wednesday 15 May 2018, Wednesday 16 May 2018, Thursday 17 May 2018, Monday 21 May 2018, Wednesday 23 May 2018, Wednesday 23 May 2018, Thursday 24 May 2018 and Friday 25 May 2018, and the House is asking whether the texts are validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u269	The minutes of Monday 30 April 2018, Wednesday 2 May 2018, Thursday 3 May 2018, Friday 4 May 2018, Monday 7 May 2018, Tuesday 8 May 2018, Wednesday 9 May 2018 (morning and afternoon), Thursday 10 May 2018, Friday 11 May 2018, Monday 14 May 2018, Tuesday 15 May 2018, Wednesday 16 May 2018, Thursday 17 May 2018, Monday 17 May 2018, Monday 21 May 2018, Wednesday 23 May 2018, Thursday 24 May 2018, Thursday 24 May 2018 and Friday 25 May 2018 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-10-S1-commons.u270	With Parliament's consent at noon 21.50" the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 11 July 2018 on the subject of Parliament's work: a) at 14.00; election of Vice-President of the Greek Parliament, according to the special agenda distributed and b) at 15.00; legislative work: only debate and vote at the beginning; articles and draft law: "Reforming the institutional framework of the Local Government - Enlargement of the Republic - Enhancing the Participation - Improving the economic and development of the OTAs" [CUSTOMS I] - Arrangements for modernising the framework for the organisation and operation of the VOCs. - Arrangements for the effective, more rapid and uniform exercise of the responsibilities for the award of citizenship and naturalisation - Other provisions of the RIS.
