ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 29-5-2018 authorisation, the minutes of its PKT meetings, on Tuesday, 29 May 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Amendment of Law 3190/1955 on Limited Liability Companies and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Thursday 31 May 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1709/29-5-2018 by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Municipal Market of Chalkida". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1703/25-2018 topical question of the new Republic of Thessaloniki MEP Mr. Savvas Anastasiades to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Reopening and reconstructing the Council of Deputies Hellenism". 3. The Question No 1698-24-2018 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The problems of the operation of ELAS in Dodecanese within the tourist season". 4. The 1713/29-5-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the needs of museums and archaeological sites. 5. The 1693/23-2018 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The last hit by Ruvikon - Distribution of brochures for his action in Athens". 6. The Question No 1714/29-5-2018 by Mr. Attica of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Not to the extremely expensive HYTAS Grammar, catastrophic to health and the environment". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1702-25-2018 topical question by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr. South Mitarakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Project and financing of airport projects’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 1716/29-5-2018, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Direct payment of the balance of the support of the 2014 programme for young farmers". 3. The question by No 1715/29-5-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior on "Prevention measures to prevent forest fires and address their consequences in the face of the new anti-nuclear period". 4. The Question No 1672/21-5-2018 by MP Pireos of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Anti-nuclear preparation of the country in the light of the summer season". 5. The question by No. 1668/18-5-2018 of the Deputy Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.His Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Subjects of "innovations" of the Ministry of Culture and Sport.” 6. The 1673/21-5-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems at the Roma camp of Patras". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1609/7-5-2018 topical question of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “A letter of protest and despair of residents of the Exarchates”. 8. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Eve Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Nine tolerance of the residents of Exarchites in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region". 9. The 1554-24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior about the building for the accommodation of the Paionia National Road Department. 10. The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". 11. The Question No 1628/11-5-2018 by Independent MP from Athens Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Criminality and all kinds of attacks by underworld people and fork rebels”. 12. The Question No 1648/15-2018 by Independent MP II of Athens, Mr.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Institute of the Academy of Arts". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Aid for tobacco growers in Thrace". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 3810/27-2-2018 by Congressman Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To conduct the tender in question immediately and to proceed with the construction of the St. Pelagic’. 3. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The last deadline set by Mr. Spirtzis for the start of the proceedings of the Patras - Tower has been extended. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religion: "Following the Agreement between the Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation of the United Nations (UNESCO) and the Government of the Hellenic Republic regarding the establishment of the Centre for Integrated and Interdisciplinary Management of Water Resources at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki as Category 2 Centre under the auspices of UNESCO". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. I would like to remind you what the parties have voted on. "Yes" has passed SYRIZA, the Democratic Reconciliation, the Independent Greeks and the Potami. The Golden Dawn and the JRC have voted for. The New Democracy and the Union of Centres were reserved. The Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Fotakis, has asked for the floor for some clarification. From that point on, I will give you the floor. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, today, you are calling on to vote for the UNESCO agreement with the Hellenic Republic regarding the definition of the Centre for Integrated and Interdisciplinary Management of Water Resources, the CEDEFOP, which operates at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, so that it also operates under the auspices of UNESCO. The CEDEFOP was founded in 2011, with a decision of the university senate as a structure that operates within it. Its purpose was to coordinate the research and educational activities of the Foundation in the area of integrated water resource management. This is an area of a highly interdisciplinary nature, as is demonstrated by the participation of representatives from thirteen sections of the university, who operate in one way or another in this field. Professors of the Aristotle University also constituted the original coordinating body of the CEDEFOP. In October 2015 UNESCO adopted a proposal submitted by the university through the Ministry of Education and with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs approved the upgrading of the centre to the center of UNESCO, based in the institution, thus forming the first centre of this type in Greece and the twenty-five Center for Water Study of UNESCO in the world. On the basis of this agreement, the JRC will be administered by a Steering Committee involving four university professors, two researchers from the respective UNESCO centres and a UNESCO representative. The board will be supervised by the Senate of the Aristotle University. The JRC will be financed from the university's resources and will operate with the institution's staff. There is a decision taken by the Senate in July 2011. It will also have researchers in the context of research programmes in accordance with its founding decision. This UNESCO option demonstrates the high level of scientific capacity in the field of Hydrology and related sciences in the university, but not only this. The management of water resources, research in this area today brings enormous international interest. The issues of water shortages, the best use of watercourses, the prevention and treatment of floods, water protection and other related issues - challenges in many countries of the world. I would like to mention that the protection of water in general from the contamination caused by plastics has been chosen as a European flagship initiative under discussion for the ninth Framework Programme for European Union research. As far as the issue of floods, such as those faced by our country, is concerned, the importance of such a centre is obvious. In addition, the implementation of relevant research activities in the Mediterranean countries has been recognised and is one of the two pillars of the European Union's ‘PRIMA’ programme focusing on agri-food and water resources. Recently, a proposal has been made to this programme with fifty-eco-Greek participations for research into the polo of water resources and total funding requested for 11 million. The university, through the JRC, is expected to attract a significant part of these resources and to play a leading role in the country's efforts in this area. But today's ratification of the UNESCO agreement has a broader meaning, as it upgrades Macedonia's geostrategic importance, as the Aristotle University becomes a centre of reference in the region and generally strengthens the country's position in Southeast Europe. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Amanatidis, has also called for the floor. So I will also give the Minister the floor so that if anyone wants to be placed on the whole, they can do so. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. After the fruitful debate that took place in the Committee on Formatic Affairs, I believe that, with the position of the Minister, the issues that had been raised with regard to the Coordinating Committee have also been clarified. I would like to mention two - three elements and some questions that have been asked. One question is whether only rivers are involved or whether the lakes are included. Included are both rivers and lakes. The House must know that about 40% of the land's inhabitants live in areas where environmental systems and natural resources - with spearheads, of course, water reserves - are transnational, that is to say, shared between two or more countries. In Greece 25% of water resources come from our northern neighbours, as we have five transnational rivers and three lakes. Of the eight rivers of northern Greece, only three are not cross-border. Of the five rivers we share, in the case of Aos we are in an advantageous position. Transnational, of course, are the lakes Small and Great Prespa and Lake Doirani. The resources will be provided by the Aristotle University. No new structure is created. The IMP is fully responsible for the operation and viability of the centre. The upgrading of the Water Resources Management Centre is very important for Thessaloniki and Macedonia as the Minister said. It gives the opportunity for further promotion and international recognition of the work of teachers, researchers and students of ADI, creating opportunities for international cooperation and contributing to the extroversion of the university and the international visibility of the city and country. Thus through this UNESCO centre the IMP can play a more important role in the Balkans and the Mediterranean in the field of water management. With this in mind and thanks for the debate - which has been made in the Committee on Forumsical Affairs to provide the necessary clarification - I, of course, urge you to vote for this ratification of the agreement. We will submit to Parliament the agreement between the ADR and UNESCO, which refers to Article 5 of this agreement, where is the coordinating committee. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned agreement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Is there any colleague who wants to be placed, by those who have declared a reservation or by a 'Paris'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u6	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u7	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u8	Good. Mr. Gregos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. The agreement was signed in September 2016 and the truth is that you bring it to ratification in a short time as opposed to other sanctions. It is also pleasant that we have no amendments to this bill. I consider it important, because the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and in general the city of Thessaloniki. Obviously this is a very important development for both the University of Thessaloniki, with the enhancement of its extroversion and the opportunity of international cooperation and international promotion of teaching and research staff, as I said before, with an international view to academic and research level. We had also told the committee that we would vote 'at present', and we are doing so because it involves non-governmental organisations once again. We all know very well that these non-governmental organisations have very suspicious actions and we do not want there to be either here. There are these doubts that we have expressed in committee as well, since many times in these non-governmental organisations they have proved their unselfish aims and guidance from foreign centres of power, since they have the potential to be levers of pressure and forming political actions as well as of manipulating public opinion. We had a number of remarks on specific articles, mainly 4, 7 and 8. To say something very fundamental: water is a human right, essential to the full enjoyment of life and all human rights, as the UN also points out, and cannot and must not be a profitable commodity. Efficient management of water resources should not be done by individuals. In addition to any material or financial assistance to the Centre for the Management of Water Resources, the Greek Government must exercise immediate supervision and lay down the framework within which the Centre will act, aiming primarily at the satisfaction of our national interests through the use of scientific findings. We had some reservations about Article 4. There's been some improvements. In the proposed Article 9 we said that a time limit should be set on the obligation to inform the parties concerned in order to bring the provisions of the agreement into force. There was a numbering of what I saw, because that was a problem too. I repeat again that we will vote 'at present' because of the action of non-governmental organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Grego. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we must say that the JRC is not being established now. It has been operating for seven years, since 2011, as a unit supervised by the Senate of the Aristotle University. It is now linked to UNESCO and is placed under its auspices as a Category 2 centre. We must say here that with regard to the financing of this centre, an issue that is in any case crucial to this operation, there is only one general wording in Article 8, which says that "the Government will try to monitor that the necessary financial resources in kind needed for the administration and proper functioning of the ERCF have been guaranteed by the ERCF". But where will these necessary resources come from? This is not mentioned and nothing is mentioned about the financing of the centre, because the issue of its funding has been defined and settled by its founding decision yet since 2011. According to it, therefore, the founding decision, the centre is almost entirely and exclusively committed to seeking funding from it, always within the strict framework of the business of the country's university and research fabric. Now, of course, you will tell me that it is not the only example. All the instruments of the current government for higher education and research are moving in this direction and are expanding and deepening this entrepreneurship of university institutions and research centres, and even more so as they are bound to the needs of the profitability of business groups. Just by this bill - we say - the absolute legislative continuity of all governments is confirmed, since the SYRIZA Government is not inconsistent with the founding text of 2011 of the then PASOK government. However, research and other activities of this centre could have a particular scientific and social significance, from the point of view of the service of people's interests and needs and in a field of extreme importance, such as management of water resources, when it is known that this management of water resources has been of particular importance in recent years in the field of investment, business and increased geo-economic and geopolitical importance, so the issue is of particular importance. In this sense, as a JRC, our concern is very strong for the framework within which it operates, as well as what the objectives the JRC is called upon to serve on the basis of the current ratification. See, for example, what Article 5 of the agreement today stands for. There it is clearly stated that the aim is to contribute and intervene in the ERC to address the challenges associated with water, with regional international, global action, including through cooperation with government services, NGOs, stakeholders and decision-making bodies, with particular emphasis on cross-border water systems. In this context, the specific purpose of the JRC refers, in addition to all others, to developing, promoting and transmitting sound integrated water management policies around the Mediterranean region, Southeast Europe and elsewhere and providing advisory services on civil education and capacity development as a basis for developing and implementing new integrated water resource management methods in the region. In view of the fact that today, however, the wild competition between imperialist centres and international monopolistic groups is being exacerbated for the redistribution of markets and territories of economic importance, given that today's total water - food - energy, and hence water resources, certainly have a special place in the imperialist designs and competition, then all these reports are increasing our concern at the role that the present convention will actually give the CEDEFOP. All this has been confirmed by the Minister himself a moment ago by the new role he has presented for the JRC as another basis for our position - these were his words to the committee - under the PRIMA programme, which is part of the European Union's 'HORIZON 2020' Platform, which concerns nine members of the European Union, as well as seven other Mediterranean countries - non-members - and Greece contributes to this with EUR 10 million - and deals with water and food resources. In this programme, PRIMA, apart from public bodies, is also involved in large businesses, business associations, non-governmental organisations, of course always within the framework of the objective of competitiveness of the major European business groups. Here we must say that the terms of hydroimperialism and geopolitical hydrogemony are already used in urban literature, of course, which state exactly the special position of water resources in imperialist designs and competitions. But also a glance at putting someone in the wider area is enough. We see that the Turkish Government has been applying an informal water embargo for some areas controlled by the Kurdish forces for some time, making use of the large hydroelectric dams, such as the Tiger River. Israel is applying the same practice to the Palestinians and other Arabs, so this shows that water plays a major role in the Arab-Israeli conflict. And don't tell us that all these issues do not have a special significance at a time when the possibility of major regional conflicts is growing, even of a more generalised imperialist war. In conclusion, there are also a number of studies which directly link the issues of water supply and drinking water with the global increase in migratory and refugee flows with particular emphasis in the wider region. Of course this does not surprise us at all. It just proves that at global level the capitalist development path is responsible for the fact that a billion more than a billion people today do not have access to sufficient and clean water, while millions of children are dying of illnesses linked to its lack. Eventually, despite the undeniable fact that the operation of this centre and cooperation with UNESCO could, in fact, make a significant contribution to the development and promotion of the relevant research on water resources, all the above reasons that we have just expressed intensify our concerns and lead us to say'residents' in today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Saridis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thessaloniki has a special relationship with the issues relating to the most precious good of nature. As you all know very well, we have developed a great deal of sensitivity in the area with the problems we face. The waste of water and, on the other hand, the management as a product for the profit of individuals is something that is clearly a nightmare for us. At the same time, we also have the blessing of having in our town one of the best universities in Europe. In view of the fact that the CERDEY, which is clearly in existence at the Aristotle University since 2011, has been a centre of category 2 under the auspices of UNESCO, in order to tackle and challenge all these problems relating to water management, we cannot, Mr President, but be positive and agree that there are really good reasons to support this ratification. As clearly stated in the agreement to be ratified, assistance will be technical in order to serve strategic objectives set unanimously by the global community for the protection of water resources. In the field of water management, there are no micro-party purposes, Mr. President. With this conviction within us, the Centrons' Union will support this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religion is closed: "Following the Agreement between the Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation of the United Nations (UNESCO) and the Government of the Hellenic Republic regarding the establishment of the Centre for Integrated and Interdisciplinary Management of Water Resources at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki as Category 2 Centre under the auspices of UNESCO". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u15	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u16	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u17	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘Statute of the Agreement between the Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation of the United Nations (UNESCO) and the Government of the Hellenic Republic concerning the establishment of the Centre for Integrated and Interdisciplinary Management of Water Resources at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, as a Category 2 Centre under the auspices of UNESCO’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u19	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Because we expect the Minister of Health to enter the next bill debate, we will have a short break and we will be coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the supplementary agenda for legislative work, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, ten students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Tauru Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the second bill for today. A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "State the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, amending the Agreement on Reception between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, establishing the Support Office for Prevention and Control of Untransmitted Diseases in Athens and Greece". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to be discussed in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. However, because three ministerial amendments and one parliamentary amendment have been tabled, Amendment Nos 1593 and 116, Amendment Nos 1594 and 197, and Amendment Nos 1595 and 118 - and Amendment Nos 1590 and 115 - firstly, Amendment Nos 1590 and 115, I propose that those who voted against or expressed reservations should be put on the agreement and that the relevant Minister, for five minutes, for some clarifications and for the development of the amendments and then those who wish to do so, should also be placed on the amendments for five minutes for each party. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u21	Let me remind you how the parties have been placed: SYRIZA in favour, the New Democracy "in favour", the Democratic Association "in favour", the Golden Dawn "with reservation", the JRC "in favour", the Independent Greek "in favour", the River "in favour" and the Union of Centrals "with reservation". The Minister has the floor for a legislative improvement. Mr Aivatidis will then speak on the agreement, not on the amendments. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. We want to make a legislative improvement. At the end of the title of the bill we add: '... and other provisions'. We also add to the hotel article: ‘... unless otherwise specified in the individual provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Aivatidis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. The question of the establishment of the Office of the World Health Organisation in Greece has been rescinded - and we are actually here today for the vote - following the Prime Minister's meeting on 12 September 2017 with the Director-General of the WHO, Mr. Tedros Antamon. We believe that the reason for this meeting and the Prime Minister's call at this conference was the issue that has arisen and the dangers threatened by uncontrolled immigration. We believe that this draft law has some positive elements, particularly for us, the Members of the Golden Dawn, who, while addressing written questions to the main ministers, are, illegally and with various childish pretexts, not answering them. For us, the establishment of this office is important, because we will communicate to this office issues relating to public health, in particular, to the problem of illegal and uncontrolled immigration. We have repeatedly raised, as Golden Dawn, the major problem with latent tuberculosis. We have asked the Ministers to tell us whether the people of the one coming from different countries are subjected to tests, if they are subjected to tests. Recently there was a document from the Samos Immigration Center, which recorded 12 people from the Democratic Republic of Congo. On May 8, the government notified, in this country, that there was an outbreak of the viral and fatal Ebola disease with twenty-nine dead, at risk, indeed, of an epidemic. Since the incubation time of this disease is two to twenty-one days, well someone infected with the virus from the Democratic Republic of Congo may be able within this time period and without having manifested the disease, to be found in Greece. Mr President, we have to take care of this matter. It's not a danger. Our view is substantiated. In similar cases, with the establishment of this office, we believe that public health will undoubtedly be helped and the uncontrolled and incomprehensible behaviour of certain insolvent non-governmental organisations involved in the issue of health will be restricted. But we will not vote in favour of this draft law. This is why: At times the World Health Organisation has been denounced for corruption. According to ‘JP MORGAN’, in 2009 and due to the H1N1 alarm, the pharmaceutical colosses saved 7.5 to 10 billion dollars thanks to the involvement of the so-called ‘Dr. Flu, by Albert Osterhouse, who had spoken of a pandemic risk. Also in 1999, guidelines from the World Health Organisation for the treatment and treatment of hypertensive disease led to similar profits by large pharmaceutical companies. Indeed, in this study, which was carried out at that time by the World Health Organisation, it has not been shown that the proposed medicines have a better effect than the much cheaper available. Also, a partner of the World Health Organisation is “NOVARTIS”. That's well known. In other words, there is a good cooperation, which in addition makes us not to vote in favour of this draft law and simply to say'residents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis. Mr Delis has the floor for five minutes on the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, international health cooperation needs to be established, and it goes without saying that there is a need for an WHO office, the World Health Organisation, to coordinate such an effort in Greece. But the question, Minister, is another one. With what direction and content will this office act, and of course, what status will it operate in our country? On these questions, of course, the original agreement, which is now being amended, has already been answered by 2011. We recall that, in 2011, we had voted against this agreement, judging its content negatively. Today's amending agreement, in relation to that of 2011, does not only maintain, but also strengthens our own reasons for rejecting it. Because both the content and orientation, the work of the WHO office on non-transmissible diseases is expanding as a whole in the field of health and, above all, public health. While it also recognises so-called intellectual property, providing for the exploitation of the anti-popular policies of the government through the Greek WHO Office and for other states, a fact, of course, that you are presenting it as an upgrade and an expanded role for our country in the region. But let us see the mission and role of this WHO office a little close. It is a pretext that this office will provide support, based on the WHO strategy and rules and its regional office in Europe. Therefore, on the basis of the European Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Non-transmitted Diseases followed by 2006. We must say here that the findings of the state of health of the people are too much. There are more declarations on the need for joint action, on the orientation of prevention, on tackling health inequalities, between countries and within countries. Except that all of this is simply a wish, Minister, since the directions of this strategy and of the WHO and of the European Union are fully adapted to the dominant health policy that all governments follow, and yours, as are the governments of all shades in Europe. What's the core of this strategy? Health is a cost, according to it, and therefore costs must be cut. In fact, the more health expenditures are cut off, the more those who cut them are slamming for the universal, supposedly, access to health, as your own government does. This is the spirit of the WHO strategy and of these diseases, as well as of all health issues, and on the basis of this strategy it is called upon to act in Athens as well. It is characteristic that the prevention of non-transmissible diseases is a starting point, not the protection of the health of workers, but, on the one hand, the reduction of the effects of these diseases on businesses in the absence of workers, reduced productivity, frequent change of personnel due to illness, that is, it can affect their profitability and, on the other, the reduction of public spending on health care, welfare, pensions, pensions, which are, of course, more increased, in the case of chronic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, etc. To sum up, it is a policy of how to ensure that they pay for these diseases as little as possible for employers and their state. In this strategy, of course, there is no word for free health and free prevention, for meeting all modern needs, public infrastructures for exploiting all technological potential. On the contrary, all the directions proposed are reasonable to be affordable to the people, that is to say, given that they will pay for health, that health services must be organised and operated in the logic of cost-benefit and that prevention must be limited to the basic and only package. A permanent excuse for all this? The lack of resources. When, after all, were these resources available for health or education available? While, if it is for NATO and for the subsidies of business groups, they are instantly. The prevention services - i.e. ensuring - the basic equipment, the pressometer, the scale, the sugar machine, the measurement of respiratory function, etc. Although, and if there are resources - which are never there - to encourage massive preventive control at that time. Otherwise, as usual, prevention, as we know, only concerns those who are in high-risk groups and that at affordable prices. This strategy has something else, which is maximum hypocrisy in our view, to introduce taxes - you say - on unhealthy foods, to tax private transport, to prefer bike workers and urban transport, to make labels understandable and clear in food and other such intelligent ones. Health is thus, of course, an individual case, individual responsibility and not the responsibility of the states. It is characteristic that the WHO here places responsibility on the states and governments only in planning healthy public policies and controlling them and not in ensuring for everyone the protection of public health. Neither the WHO nor its European annex have reacted or condemned anti-grassroots health policy or much more imperialist invasions and attacks. On the contrary, they accept the anti-grassroots policy that creates problems and at the same time give them a scientific alibi, proposing various ways of managing them. Now, as far as the multinationals are concerned, I think their role is well known and it appeared from global management, which has been carried out by all capitalist states in the case of new flu with these large pharmaceutical groups. As we have said, we disagree with the intellectual property in the WHO on the results of its work in Greece, because this means that, while providing funding and facilities for the operation of the office in Greece, for at least part of the results of the work, the Greek state will not be able to use them without consideration, since they will be the property of the WHO. We also disagree - and this is not a detail - on a specific immunity regime, provided for in judicial proceedings or on other prerogatives of experts from this office. We want here to say that this is, of course, not a diplomatic agreement between two states, but an international transnational organisation, and we do not of course believe that there should be a reason for this privileged regime. Finally, Minister, it is not enough to describe the health problems. The question is how to deal with it. And here, two ways: I think there are: Or dealing with them is directed at the Anti-Fraud budgetary objectives, and health is treated as a cost, which must be curtailed, as is being done throughout the European Union and in our country or health and prevention by caring for and exclusively funding the state becomes public, becoming modern and, above all, free of charge, as the JRC proposes and, of course, calls on the people's movement to fight for it. In conclusion, I should like to say that, although the WHO is present as a neutral body, it is actually the opposite, because it is today an transnational body of capitalist states which treats health in accordance with the criteria of capitalist development and is thus exploited as a global tool for supporting anti-grassroots policies in the field of health. We are also voting against this amending contract, as we voted against the original contract in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. We maintained our commitment to the meetings of the competent committees, seeking to clarify the economic elements, resulting from the revision of the Convention on the Functioning of the Offices of Non-transmitted Diseases, signed by our country with the World Health Organisation since October 2008. After the explanations given to us by the Minister, but also by an investigation which we ourselves have made, two questions arise, Mr President. One of these two questions arises, one concerns the past and the other concerns the future. We ask one question to answer what has happened so far in this office. The second question concerns the design and the cost of this office. It is clear that what has been done so far is very worrying and there is a blur on all these issues, which the office itself has been working on and giving us too many concerns. We could say that we will support, for our part, the revision of this convention, but issues relating to planning for the future are being created. So the lack of these elements and the fact that there is also a blurred landscape for the future leads us to vote'residents' in the specific revision of the Convention. Of course, we agree with the subject and spatial enlargement. We also agree with the logic that precisely because our country is in this budgetary situation, we should have a cut in expenditure. Unfortunately, however, it is not clear how we will achieve this, of course, and also the release of the EUR 2 million that we have to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. We will give the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Polakis the floor to develop some amendments. Mr Manda, we expect your amendment to be tabled. You should have developed your amendment before all the Members are placed, because it is an amendment that you are now bringing. As far as I know, the Ministry will accept it. It is therefore a good thing that Members should be placed on the whole. Now, let the Deputy Minister speak, Mr Paulakis, and we will then see how we manage it. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be presenting two amendments to the ratification of the convention. The first amendment is in general terms 1594 and a special 117. What we are trying to do with this amendment is to amend and simplify the recruitment of auxiliary staff, other than doctors, to the hospitals of the country and to supervised bodies of the Ministry of Health, such as EKAB, EEAA, EKA, EAF, Papageorgiou Hospital, and Santorini AEMY Hospital. What are we doing with this amendment? We are simplifying a procedure, always within the limits of the appropriations and the budget that each hospital has from its own resources, as is the case today. As you know, for subsidiary staff, whether they are doctors or other staff, the posts are declared and to date they are paid from the hospital's own revenue, i.e. from hospitals collected from the EEAO or from own revenues from legacys, rents, donations, afternoon hospitals, etc. There is a very large bureaucratic process in order to call for positions that address immediate needs. We've solved this to doctors. In other words, there is a list in the health regions by specialisation declared by doctors that they are interested in going to take up the position of subsidiary staff. Every hospital with money from his budget asks to hire some doctor specialties. From the list kept in a specific order based on the date on which the doctor made the statement this intake is made. Subsidiary staff should be issued with a PSF. There has to be a whole process that lasts for too long and makes it very difficult for hospitals, for immediate needs to be met. That was one of the reasons why we were forced two years ago to call them by CEDEFOP, which ends now. We want to fill this gap, because despite the recruitments made to permanent staff, there are still gaps. So what do we do now? We are creating a list of staff by category - nursing, paramedical or other specialties - and each hospital in the limits of its appropriations and budget, as has been the case so far, which, on the one hand, has the possibility of hiring and, on the other hand, the need to recruit subsidiary staff in certain posts takes them from this list. This, however, is not a list drawn up on the basis of the date of the application, but is a list of molecules made on the basis of the criteria of the AACC, which is why a process of how this is done is described. Of course, all the procedure and verification of the correct moleulation of the list are carried out by the AACC and there is the possibility of objections and if there is a decision of the AACC other than that of the AACC, its decision is immediately enforceable. This makes it possible to cover too many things and seasonal and more generally. So you're in hospitals with two nurses who are taking leave because of pregnancy or child rearing. This practically can disorganise locally the functioning of a clinic or a unit. In so far as the hospital has money, it has the possibility for the permanent worker to fill this gap from the list of HR. This is the essence of this amendment, which is, of course, signed by all the co-legislative ministers. The second amendment is general number 1595 and specific number 118. Here we define and clarify some things that have to do with the National Central Health Procurement Authority. I should like to inform you that after a great deal of trouble and effort, because we have received one thing completely dispersed in relation to the Committee on Health Procurement, there are already four major drug contests that are awarded - already the first has been awarded - with a very large savings of more than EUR 15 million and 20 million for each tender each year for the drugs that are included in and are in progress and contests for cardiotics, orthopaedic material, etc. We resolve a number of things that have to do first, with the financing of EACH provided for by some resources and a special fee from the competitions that it will carry out. We definitively regulate the issue of feasibility approvals, not only the supply or study projects, but also the supplies of health material made by hospitals no longer in place, this shameful bureaucratic thing which, in order to buy a hospital of 100,000 euros, had to have a whole delay procedure, which did not allow it practically to make the tender on time and therefore had to buy extra-contractually. We solve this by means of the procedure it says: "In particular, as regards the supply of health, consumables and goods within the budget of the relevant body, the responsibility for issuing appropriateness, irrespective of the amount, belongs to the Board of Directors, and to the commander or sub-government of the relevant OSH." This paragraph is a huge release of the functionality of hospitals which have been bureaucraticly very difficult so far. It also defines the civil responsibility of the members of the ESDP, the possibility of entrusting the recruitment competitions to the end, because we have created the body of the National Central Procurement Authority, but the proclamation of permanent posts has not yet been completed. We are exploiting mobility and manning the EMSDDA and we also need the contribution of some to the establishment of the legal service resulting from the organisation, to be able to assign private lawyers to deal with legal matters. We also extend to the present composition of the Board of Directors of EKPY until 31-12-2018 and will shortly be open notice based on the Vernardakis Act to cover the positions of responsibility in supervised organisations. The second article, in which there will also be a legislative improvement, concerns a number of regulations. As you know for two years now, we have institutionalised the obligation for the EEAS to finance the EMCDDA with a 0.86% rate of its health expenditure for the needs of air spaces and waterways of severely ill patients. It will be immediately tabled in this regard. Here we regulate the way this is done, because there was a confusion, in that the EAW owes the Air Force, pays and gets invoices when it pays, and there was an issue of how the EAW paid the EAW this amount to the EAW. So far we have withheld it from the grant of the State General Accounting Office to EOPYY, and it will now be by ministerial decision. It will come out of the amount that we have to give every year, and that will be the only supporting document with which the EKPY will be directly financed by the EKPY, without asking for documents, which it does not have. I would also like you to know that we have already made a payment of about EUR 24 million of old debts from the EKA to the Air Force. Because we received EUR 97 million of the debts of the EKRB to the Air Force. We have agreed that there should be a brave haircut for these debts, up to the sum of EUR 48 million, which will be completed next year. With regard to the third article, the permanent posts of private law have been declared indefinite, after the two years of operation, for the Santorini Hospital belonging to AEMY. A contract has been signed under the supervision and responsibility of the AACC. Just because for the first ones who were recruited when the Santorini Hospital began its operation in the summer of 2016 will not have been able to complete the process until June, we are extending the staff today until the completion of the competitive process and the recruitment of permanent staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Mandais has asked for the floor to develop a parliamentary amendment. The Minister, Mr Xanthos, will then be placed on the whole of the amendments and will be accepted. I would ask all Members to be distributed so that all parties can place themselves on the whole of the amendments which have been tabled and which have been accepted. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u32	I would first like to apologise to all my colleagues, because on a completely technical point my second amendment has just come. The first amendment, with a general number 1590 and a specialist of 115, is essentially the lifting of an inequality in relation to doctors serving in local health units. In other words, it is a change in Article 24(2), paragraph 24, to provide for the possibility of attending conferences for their continuing education and for these doctors to be able to do so, like all other doctors in the health system. The second amendment, with a general number 1596 and a special 119, concerns certain small but absolutely necessary regulations in Law 2716/1999 on mental health. I'll report them one by one. The first concerns issues that arise in the Psychopathic Health Units that are AMKE or non-profit-making and are related to problems identified and have been addressed in relation to the registration of therapeutic actions in the information system. With this amendment we give the possibility, when for some reason - and this has happened sometimes - that this information system cannot function, that these units can pass on the elements of their therapeutic work, so that they do not stick to the entire system of granting these non-profit mental health units. It's some problems we haven't solved yet. This work is entrusted to a company through legal procedures and some problems have arisen. But this is absolutely necessary in order to enable these units to continue to function in the interests of their healed ones. The second article concerns the introduction throughout the range of these non-profit mental health units of control by sworn accountants. This has already been piloted in four or five units, if I remember well. Our proposal and this amendment generalises it for all mental health units. The next article, the third article, relates to the following: in every area of mental health with the oldest law, we were able to establish a Common Foreign and Security Policy. But many of the Psychic Health Units include more than one regional unit. I will tell you that there is, for example, the TIFF Corfu - Ioannina. This amendment enables this very important intervention to be given to the EESC, the Social Cooperatives, to take place in each regional unit, that is to say, the EESC, in each regional unit. The next point is an obvious complement to the fact that it did not exist and created a number of problems. This supplement states that the terms and conditions for granting these units I spoke about before being determined by a joint decision of the Finance and Health Ministers. Let me point out here that for two years these Units have been financed by the state budget, and that is why this arrangement has been in place. It is a full responsibility, that is, the state budget. The last one - the fifth point - is a clarification of a mistake that has been made in the past. In other words, we are correcting the point concerning the compensation paid by the EEAS for the meeting of a psychologist, diagnostic and therapeutic literature, ergonomic treatments and psychotherapies, which is carried out in accordance with the Single Health and EKPH Regulation, as applicable every time and at the rate of EUR 15. Let me explain to you what was going on: We had a failure to do so - it had not been formulated properly - the first work done by a psychologist, the diagnostic work with the psychometric tests and the rest of this pay, so that a job that is also very important to pay much less than EUR 2.5. So, with this point in the amendment, we are making one self-evident - in my opinion - a procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mada. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, may I have the floor to make some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u35	Yes, Minister, you have the floor for a minute. Mr. Paulakis will be talking first about some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u36	I would like to make two legislative improvements, beyond the two legislative improvements mentioned by Minister Xanthos earlier. One concerns the case of paragraph 4(b) of Article 10 in Amendment No 1594. The words ‘intake decisions’ shall be replaced by ‘classification tables’. The second is Amendment No 1595, where there is a recast of the first paragraph of the article on the reimbursement of expenditure from the EEA to the EAEC in order to cover the air transport and the waterways of the heavyly ill patients, which is borne by the EEAO, from which the return will be made. In fact, it does a little recast the first paragraph on the basis of the observations made by the General Accounting Office of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Blonde has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u38	First of all, I should like to develop the amendment with a general number of 1593 and a specialist of 116. It is a ministerial amendment which regulates the possibility for legal persons of public or private law to grant their real estate, whose full ownership is in order to fulfil the obligations of the Office of the World Health Organisation in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u39	Mr Minister, please mention and which parliamentary amendments you are accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u40	Sure. Both parliamentary amendments are accepted. I think they've been presented in detail. Now, with regard to this in itself to the content of the Convention: we have explained yesterday to the committee that what is being done is, in fact, a review and an update of an old contract, signed in 2008 and ratified three years later by Law 3933/2011. We consider a very important step towards upgrading the relationship between our country and the World Health Organisation to create a local WHO office in Greece. However, since, as you have seen in the convention, this office has a super-local role that goes beyond national borders and is expressly mentioned as being able to support regional measures, I think it is also an important upgrade of the country's international role. We therefore have the operation of an office, which is coming to support technical and scientific cooperation, which is already under way and which supports very critical reforms that are currently taking place in the health system. Mr Delis asked what the content was. The answer we gave yesterday, we give it every day and it is given by its establishment and by the World Health Organization. The contents are: 'health for everyone'. It is a project of equality, of removal of inequalities and of universal coverage of the health needs of the population. This is a progressive project, and I think that it really is problematic to invoke fellow Members for disagreeing on both content and vision. Cooperation with the World Health Organisation takes place on this very basis. The programme currently under way is the 30-month-old 'SCOOP 1 and 2', based on critical reforms aimed at strengthening the country's health system to address the issue of universal coverage. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no chatter about universal coverage. There is action in this country. Two million and sixty thousand uninsured citizens today - precisely because there is a strong political will, because there is welfare and institutional provision - have access to health care, free and equal, as is the case with other insured persons. This is a very important change. It has radically altered the daily life of hundreds of thousands of people who today can with dignity, with their AMKA, address public sectors, prescribe their medications, do their examinations, be nursed without the stress of exclusion and access barriers. This objective is served by the reforms that we are currently promoting, with the top of the reform in primary care, which is considered precisely by the WHO to be a key to universal access to equal and effective health care. It is important, too, that the work of the WHO's office is expanded. While, at the outset, the content of the agreement was limited to non-transmitted diseases only, there is now a broader approach, which concerns all aspects of health policy. I think this is also a significant change. Of course, a very significant change is that the budgetary burdens foreseen in the previous period have been lifted. These EUR 2 million as an annual contribution, which would, in fact, be adjusted upwards every two years, I think is a very important development, which takes account of the country's real budgetary data. I think that this is exactly what the World Health Organisation is seeing and has consented to a function where we will simply impose daily operating costs. However, because it is precisely to be granted real estate, which is owned by supervised bodies of the Ministry, the price and cost of this support will be very small. At this point I can say that I really cannot understand the objections made by the Centro Association, which is still invoking - after these developments and changes - undetermined and undetermined, if any, costs of this agreement. So I think it is a very important step. We already have several axes of cooperation. We have primary care, the development of content in continuing education in family medicine. There is a pilot programme of integrated health and Community care, which, with the supervision of the WHO, already operates pilots in Jannah. There are therapeutic protocols, which are drawn up, especially for primary care, with the technical support of the WHO. There is the National Public Health Plan for the reorganisation of public health services. A conference on this was held with the cooperation of the WHO and the Ministry of Health. A corresponding conference has also been held with the presence of many experts from Europe and the reform of primary health care. The issue of public health policy responds to the criticism of the JRC that health is being approached as an individual case. I'm barely there. The logic of public health is that it needs targeted intervention, with the care of the state, to social identification of the disease, which are multi-level, and that this obviously cannot be just a matter of personal protection, but it needs comprehensive and collective protection of public health and, therefore, of people's individual health. Furthermore, important priority is to support reforms in the drug field. The HTA Agency, which we are preparing, will assess the scientific criteria with which the Committee on the Evaluation of Medicinal Innovation, now set up, its association with the Negotiations Committee, has all been done with the technical support of the WHO. There are reports, reports and studies on informal payments and disastrous own costs, out of pocket payments, citizens in our country, who have increased very much in the period of crisis, the upgrading of emergency medicine and the reorganisation of TPAs, the management of the human resources of the system and the challenges of meeting needs in public units. There is a process of evaluating reforms and changes that have taken place over the past five years in the country. We will have a very good report in the summer, which will really help us all to make a serious assessment of the interventions made during the Memorandum period, to see the distortions and side effects they have created and, therefore, to take the appropriate measures. I therefore think that this cooperation serves this central political project of the government that talks about universal coverage through strengthening the public health system and reorganising it with a focus on primary care, with an anthropocentric approach, respecting the rights of patients, with transparency, with mechanisms for quality control and mechanisms. This is the new public care programme in our country. I think that with the help of the World Health Organisation, the country strengthens its public health system, becomes healthly safe, faces the emerging health threats arising from the movement of people and from the large refugee and migration flows. That is exactly what we are following the WHO guidelines and we have prevented, as we have said many times, from having a public health problem in the country because of the refugee problem. The country, therefore, now has a strong bearing on this cooperation, proves that it is following developments across Europe and around the world and has an upgraded international role. It builds up a modern health system focusing on primary care, as all severely developed countries do. I really think that this intervention is being completed by voting in favour of this agreement. On 20 June the Director-General of the WHO and the Director of the WHO European Office in Greece will come to Greece to sign and take up the new office. I think that's a big step. Of course, there will be also the institutional players of the country and the political forces. Also, there are various actions under way at the moment. In mid-June there will also be a very good seminar on diseases transmitted via transmitters. Furthermore, in mid-June, there will be a joint co-organisation with the World Health Organization of the "World Day Volunteer" - for the first time, our country has the honour to take over its organization - with a slogan "Be there for the other", giving a signal that volunteer blood donation is an important act of social solidarity. And I think we need this message especially at this time of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will start with the parliamentary representatives. I will give the floor to Mr. Kefaliannis who has asked him first. Then they will talk about the amendments, in the order of the parties, who wish to do so by parliamentarians or rapporteurs. Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems, unfortunately, that the government is suffering from a parliamentary mismatch. I am saying this because every time we come to a formal process, such as ratification of this convention, for which, basically, the political forces are positive, and we see that we have a number of amendments. And all of them, of course, are late. The worst of all is an amendment which was tabled only ten minutes before the end of the procedure. In fact - and it is the one Mr Mandas has developed - he was tabled at 11.20 p.m., that is, a quarter ago. So you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that an amendment which refers to a large number of ministerial decisions and a large number of previous laws is impossible to read. In fact, I have a lot of reasonable questions to ask why this amendment or any amendment should be accelerating, literally, at only five. It is an amendment which, as the honourable Member has already said, increases from EUR 2.5 to EUR 15 the compensation that these categories have, including psychiatrists, psychologists and the therapists. A budget expenditure is therefore induced without a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. I think that in general reasonable questions are raised how, with such warmth, the government, through the relevant ministers, has to adopt these amendments - unless, of course, there is prior consultation - without even having been thoroughly studied. We denounce it, ladies and gentlemen of the government, once again. It is not possible in a formal process to bring in ever-increasing amendments. I spoke earlier about misery, because every time we denounce them here in Parliament. You yourself were when you condemned these practices. And, unfortunately, when you came to the government, you didn't just go on with them, but you hit them. And we have reached one point at the moment to talk about an ongoing violation of the Rules of Procedure. And it seems that while we are all talking here and saying that this is a practice which must not continue, and indeed, in the worst way. I, Mr President, will also appeal to the Bureau - and I am obviously referring to the institution and not to the person - that at some point such amendments should not be accepted. Amendments should not be accepted which literally come to nothing but five minutes before the end of the sitting. And I think none of my colleagues here have read the substance. We therefore vote against Amendment No 1596, and for this reason alone and for this reason we vote against the amendment. But some time along the way we'll see the substance of the case, because I think it's very interesting. Let's go to the next one. The amendment with a general number of 1590 and a specialist 115 is also a parliamentary one. We will vote'residents' in this amendment. But, indeed, we are also being created here, Mr Ministers, some reasonable questions. Fifteen days a year shall be granted with remuneration in order to attend scientific conferences. At least as far as I know from medical practice, conferences are held on weekends. This means that here you come and tell us that, beyond the twenty days of normal paid leave, which the people who run the TOMY are entitled to - an institution that proved to be a failure in practice, but let us say that we are still talking about, as far as the operation of these units is concerned - you are giving them fifteen more days on pay to participate in medical conferences. On the other hand, I would like to point out a number of complaints made by the Ministry of Health concerning pharmaceutical companies, conferences, etc. But let's go to the point of the case. In fact, you say that a doctor who has a one-year contract, along with twenty days, plus fifteen, will be working for eleven months and will be rewarded for the twelve. However, we will say 'the present'. We consider it reasonable to have a participation in these conferences. What we do not understand, however, is how one can participate in 15 days in work, beyond the weekends, where, at least in practice, the conferences are held, and yet the ministry is coming and rewards him. In Amendment No 1593, with a special number of 116, concerning the possibility for legal persons under private law to transfer property, which are wholly owned or by 51% or more, in order to house offices of the World Health Organisation, we will vote again'residents', Ministers. Of course, there is a legitimate concern about what will happen in relation to private individuals, because you say 'free in return'. So what happens if there is a juncture in a property, as you say here in the amendment? What will the private person do? You take his property and tell him that, because the World Health Organization is going to be housed, I'm actually making you a forced expropriation without compensation? It's something that's not predictable. I think you should see it too. There is also a provision of bequests that have a specific purpose. What happens in these cases? You know very well that the legacy is binding, as far as its purpose is concerned, and under no circumstances can you derogate from that. That is not what the amendment refers to either. In Amendment No 1594, and with a special 117, we will also vote'residents'. We believe, of course, that checks on the legality of the AACC must be mandatory. I have heard the Minister, Mr Polakis, develop a point of order, but you understand that this also brings us reasonable questions. You will tell me, of course, that this may be the delays, that there are emergencies, etc. However, you can understand that this also leaves huge margins in some cases when bad practices are carried out. In Amendment No 1595 and in Amendment No 118 we say 'no', as long as it remains in this form and does not break. We propose to break, Minister, because there are several articles. For example, in the article at the General Hospital of Thera, we would be positive if you broke this amendment. In the article on the EEA and the EMCDDA, but also on the previous article, we are negative. It seems once again that there is a reluctance on the part of the government, because, if you look at a number of amendments made by this amendment, you are actually amending the laws of your own government, namely Law No.4472/2017, as well as another Act of 2016, Law No.4430. So you come here and actually say that after a few months of legislating in this Chamber, you see that you have made a mistake and you are amending a number of provisions. Because we are talking about ten paragraphs plus three other articles. In fact, it could also be an independent piece of legislation. As far as the Thera Hospital is concerned, Minister, I repeat that we will be positive if the amendment is broken. This, of course, proves once again the great distance that exists from reality. A few months ago we heard you advertising the Hospital of Thera as something new, as something that will work from now on without any problems and you come here and in fact admit that despite the then advertising, despite what you said at the time, it is a hospital that will function in full, in fact another amendment is needed in order to normally continue its operation. I repeat that, once you break it, we will be positive in this article, negative in the rest. If the amendment remains in this form, we will be negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, can I give you a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u45	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Col Kefalayannis, the hospital works well with a hundred and fifty staff. They were hired the first year on a fixed-term contract. It was extended for another year because there was an amendment to the hospital organization called KEOL because it concerns AEMY. It is now working and we are doing the proclamation - because this provides for the legal regime, that, up to two years, you may have the officials - where they will become private law of indefinite duration. What does this have to do with the operation? We say that the process of permanent recruitment has not been completed. They may be the same people, because pre-service mobilizes. So what are we gonna do? If the recruitment process is not complete in June, will we fire them until the new ones arrive and stop the hospital? This problem solves this amendment. You've got to hang out with Giannako a lot lately there in New Democracy and everything he's doing, you have to repeat it. The hospital's working well. I refer you to the figures of his movement this year, in 2018, to see the huge increase in his visitability as well as in the corresponding winter of 2017 and to understand that the hospital is doing just fine. We do not really want to jeopardise its operation if the invitation to recruit permanent staff, undetermined staff, is not complete and those who are set out to leave. That is to make criticism, but to know what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. As we started with Santorini - I intended to close with it - Minister, we had voted, as you all remember, the start of operation as a 'Public Company'. You were the ones who called priests before 2015 for this legal regime. We had a clear view of this from the outset. It is well to recognise, even afterward, that public limited companies can be useful. As far as the legal status of recruitment is concerned, the way in which you violated the AEMY's statute at the time in terms of personnel control is concerned creates these problems. It could be more flexible, much easier to recruit and extend recruitment to Santorini and other public limited companies. Since then, I would urge you to see the issue of the AEMY statute again and the way in which recruitment is made to the logic of the quickest, easiest and more flexible procedure. Because if the hospital has a problem and for reasons of location, tourism, etc., it is to find and attract staff. This is the first observation. I would like to say from this step that yesterday we had an excellent debate at the Ministry - I feel obliged to say this - and we had an update from the Ministry's officials and Minister Xanthos on the issue of the medicine as a first step in the process of creating a Intergroup Committee of Parliament under the President of Parliament to discuss the national strategy on the medicine. We have all left - and I think I am speaking on behalf of the New Democracy too - with a positive impression on the procedure, on the mood, which has started today, unfortunately, to bury, despite the Minister's position, because the famous moralization of the health system is going a little bit too far with the amendments tabled, and this has to do with the procedure, which is unacceptable. The amendment on the recruitment of assistants is very problematic and came at the last minute. The amendments to the EMRP are very important - and I will say why - and they came at the last minute. Mr Manda, this amendment is particularly problematic. I do not know if it extends, I am not in a position to see who 'wash' paragraph 2 - if it's washing someone, I do not want to say anything - which says that the eligibility of expenditure from 2013 to 2018 is retroactively subject to the decision - rail, which I do not even have the opportunity to see and read in this time. It is a process that even if it has no shadows, it creates suspicions and it would be good to avoid. I'll check it out, and I'll tell you. However, it is not possible to place amendments in this type, which have management problems in bodies, non-profit mental health organisations, which are not famous for either their transparency or their proper management over the last decade and here we go back to 2013. It's extremely problematic. I would like to speak very briefly, because I do not have much time for the amendment on subsistence recruitment and to say why it is very problematic. The process, the fabrika, has been set up in the OTA notice and it seems that it is slowly going everywhere, all over the public. The ‘famprika’ is nominations by the ‘window’ without qualifications in respect of the annual contracts. I'm explaining. What does the law say? ‘Absolutes the verification of the legality of supporting documents’. The previous law had a three-member PPP committee. He was problematic, in my opinion, the way he was set up, but there was. The first step, therefore, in establishing the lists, was to check the legality of the supporting documents. Repealed. He's leaving. "The DSOs," says the law, "generally and indefinitely compile the lists." Neither who, with whose responsibility in the DPO, nor nothing. ‘They're setting up the lists’. And what does it say next? ‘The AACC shall check in the event of an objection’. And what after eight, nine, ten months after the appointment of the successful contract subsidiary, which will end the AACC's control if it ends it in real time? He's fired. The one who either by forgery or by smuggling or on the basis of his clientele logic - who are becoming increasingly embroiled to the Greek public now - is being made redundant, without any consequence, that is to say we take him, while he has testified for fake certificates, we appoint him, for nine months, for ten months, for a year from the annual contract, we fire him without any consequence for what others have done or for what others have done on his behalf and we hire him for another 12 months. Everyone's satisfied. I'm fine! That's the moralization of the system. Recruitment "from the window" in the worst way from the left. It's a disgrace real. This is a real shame here. It happened once in the Ottas. There are the provisional lists on which the recruitments are carried out and the waiting for the finals, which are expected after the end of the year of the annual contract, because that is the reality. The same goes for here. It's really a disgrace. As far as the EMS is concerned, what I have to say is that if I put a heading in this amendment, it would be: 'Return to Abraham's era'. After dropping white towel in the parquet for a month by voting for the possibility of making specifications for those who make the announcements - basically this is the button on the notices, the specifications, we gave them back to the one who does it, to the hospital, to the health center, to the U.S. - now we come and say what? That checking the feasibility of all costs, regardless of the source of funding, returns up to 15,000 to the commander, up to 45 000 to the board of directors and up to 240,000 to the Ministry. The first two, the famous forty - five cents that we all knew in the health system in Abraham’s day, blew up the system in the air and was the second most important source of deficits in hospitals after the bad practices of doctors possibly. But it was a situation that at the time - we all know about who we are doctors and who we are in the health system and we are many in the House - blew things up in the air. No control, no business plan, everyone does what they think is appropriate without any control, even after that. This will blow down the budgets of some hospitals in the air. The good news is that it cannot create deficits thanks to the reforms made between 2009 and 2012 by the Papandreou governments. They can't create deficits, they can't do projects without having money. However, they can take money from hospital budgets for projects, which will be of doubtful quality or dubious purpose. It is a very problematic and another moralization of the system. We will not vote for any amendment except for the first, which is an organic part of the agreement, and I will consider it a good thing that it was a failure that was not included in the main body of the agreement, which we are dominating today. We will not vote on one or two of them, although one or two of them, such as the working rights of subsidiary doctors in the WMD, are reasonable, because none of them justify the way in which the amendments were chosen to be put forward in the same way in the same morning, during the same night, in an agreement in which the amendments are not normally foreseen. I repeat, however, that the logic of trying to manipulate the recruitment of subsidiary staff to hospitals for clear customer reasons is really disappointing. It's really a disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. Mr. Ivatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, with regard to the first amendment to grant private or public-law immovable property for the needs of the World Health Organisation's office, it is manifestly a move of goodwill and a form, I would say, of hospitality, of hospitality. We will therefore not vote in favour of it, but we shall be saying 'at present'. On the amendment to subsidiary staff, we shall vote against it. We believe that opaque procedures will be followed with a component of electoral, customer behaviour, and in general we consider that this subsidiary institution is an instrument for the election of social groups. The same applies to the late amendment that has been tabled concerning the social cooperatives with limited responsibility. We believe that, through this amendment, we are favouring the ‘local’, I mean the friends who are committed to the ruling party of the SYRIZA. With regard to the amendment granting a 15-day leave with remuneration for the follow-up of scientific meetings to subsidiary doctors or TOMY doctors, we consider that it is an excessive provision, especially when we talk about 15 additional days' leave in an essential institution - I am talking about local health groups - which has so far failed to deliver the expected ones. We therefore consider this provision to be excessive and we will vote against this amendment. With regard to the amendment concerning the National Central Procurement Authority, we note that in paragraph 5 a form of immunity is essentially granted, an irresponsible form of civil liability for the members of the Board of Directors. Of course we will vote against it. It is also quite interesting - and of course another reason for voting against this amendment - that paragraph 6, which, by decision of the chairman and the board of directors, the Management Board of the National Central Supplier, may assign legal cases to private lawyers and even to the appropriate level of remuneration. We are of course voting against it. I will conclude, Mr President, with a very brief reference to a question tabled by my colleague and competitor, MEP, Mr Antony Gregos, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the planned election speech by Muharem Indze, the head of the candidate for the Turkish presidential elections of the opposition party. This party is known for the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u51	Mr Colleague, you know that this is out of order and concerns parliamentary control. I would ask you to be very brief in your report on this matter, because I do not want to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u52	Allow me. Don't interrupt me. I won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u53	I have to clarify that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u54	As a special speaker, I have the opportunity, Mr President, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u55	If you were a parliamentary representative, very clearly. However, because your parliamentary representative is missing, I have this tolerance right now. If your parliamentary representative was here, he should refer to the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u56	You're right, you're doing it. Thank you. So we denounce this voluntary endlessness of the government, which relates to the tolerance that Mr Idze will make in this pre-election speech, when ninety days have passed today, which are illegally detained as hostages, the Angel Metritis and Dimitrios Kuklatzis, in Adrianoupolis prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis. Mr. Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u58	The amendments, Mr President, five, which arrive at a draft law that ratifys and amends a convention, add another mini-legislative bill to the substance, without, of course, having the necessary time to study them and to discuss them in a broad manner. In fact, two - three of these amendments are particularly extensive and deal with too many issues. However, I will start from the last one, which, in our view, must now be taken back and come to another bill, and discussed. This is an unacceptable tactic that SYRIZA continues with last minute's amendments. It brings an amendment of five paragraphs, from what I have seen, to three laws and I do not know how many ministerial decisions. It is not possible for anyone to study it and place it. I don't know what this reveals. It is a pirative concept of this legislation, as it comes. I think you should get her back and get her to be discussed with a normal process at last. For the other four amendments, which we had a relatively short time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u59	Who are you referring to, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u60	In the last amendment by Mr Manda, with a general number of 1596 and a special number 119. We are not going into substance. We ask you to take her back and come with a normal procedure. As far as the other amendments are concerned - I begin with the order that has been tabled - we have had some time to see them better. I shall begin with Amendment No 1590, and with a special number 115, which provides for a fortnightly leave for the contract doctors of the TOMY. This amendment reveals, among other things, the contradiction of your policy. We shall vote on the amendment. Of course, the doctors should be cleared to attend the seminars. But given the submissiveness of TOMY, imagine what the absence of the doctor will do when he goes to attend these scientific conferences. In fact, a population that this doctor has in his power will be left without a doctor for the days of his absence. And, of course, we must say that this monitoring of scientific conferences also means an additional financial burden for this doctor who follows them. What we want to tell you is that these health services should be adequately served and, of course, supported by the state and their capacity to attend the medical scientific conferences, which are definitely in need. We will vote'residents' in Amendment 1593 with a specialist 116, which is, in fact, an additional part of the original contract with the World Health Organisation. I come to Amendment 1594 with a special number of 117, which refers to the recruitment of auxiliary staff. Look, what we want to say about this is that it is not some recruitment that is going to take place, but it is an intervention, intervention, and a'retouchation' of the institutional framework for flexible and part-time work, because it actually consolidates and expands the flexibility of labour relations in health establishments, not only for medical staff, but also for all staff - and for the technician and assistant - of these health establishments. We recall that all these subsidiary staff are paid from their own resources, i.e. from self-financed health agencies, from hospitals themselves. In an abstraction of his speech, Mr. Paulakis said that, if there are two pregnant nurses in a hospital, in a health facility, and they are licensed, as they are entitled, the hospital will, of course, hire subsidiary staff if it has money, as you said. What if he doesn't? What's gonna happen then?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u61	We'll make sure it does.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u62	With the money you don't give to the hospitals, will you make sure it does? Anyway. Look, there are so many staff needs, the "blocks" of auxiliary staff in hospitals certainly don't meet the needs of them. I'm going to last Amendment 1595 with special 18. It is not the regulations that are being put into practice here for the EAEC. The question is the budget - and I am talking about the state budget - on which all these supplies are eventually made. It is a health budget, which is curtailed and increasingly cut. We will vote'residents' in this amendment, but we also want to make a small comment on the staff of the 'General Hospital of Thera' - in the same amendment - of the famous Santorini Hospital, to which you lead to an extension of the service of the already serving staff as you write. We say that this staff, Mr Ministers, must now be permanentized, and not only must this staff be permanently recruited, but more staff, which this hospital needs. We are voting 'at present' as a whole in the amendment, but we are voting in favour of this provision for the Santorini Hospital. We're positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I will say a word about ratification first and then I will talk about the amendments. We are positive about amending the convention that extends the competences of the World Health Organisation Office in Greece to spatial and thematically. We have said so in committee too. I have another reason, if anything happens with the application of the anti-smoking law, with the World Health Organisation office here. Tomorrow we have a global anti-smoking day, Minister. I also told the committees that there is a mistake in the report, which was not corrected by legislative improvement, i.e. FEK 51/2011, normally FEK 52/2011. For Law 3933, you still have time to make the legislative improvement. In addition, amendments are coming at the last minute, so a legislative improvement is not a problem. It is positive that the expenditure of EUR 2 million is eliminated, but it is negative that the General Accounting Office of the State produces even an assessment of what is going on in terms of costs, even one size class. In the course of the work of the office, we would like to see open notices on these positions not being made 'in the speaker'. An evaluation of the candidates, a remarkable choice, transparency and accountability, which is the antidote to every whisper and criticism, which I am sure the government will want to reject the 'ethical advantage'. And there should not be the shoehounds of the type we have seen in the notices of the Administrative Secretarys of the Ministries, which were notices -'selfies', which adapted the qualifications of the good and the'mother' to each notice. It is therefore good to amend the agreement of the World Health Organisation and to extend it to spatial and topics. However, in the amendments we see the same tactic, the unacceptable procedure, even in sanctions, coming ministerial and parliamentary amendments, and at the last minute, twenty minutes before the end, as if you had become Olympics in this sport, namely to table amendments at the last minute. I will be particularly concerned with the amendment, which Mr Barriots referred to, by number 1594/117 on the recruitment of auxiliary staff. Mr Paulakis justifies this, saying that we need to speed up the procedures. However, the procedure, as it is described, seems to us that it is generally 'being taken'. Because we are a little suspicious of how things are going from now on, now that we are approaching an election year, we think there should be more guarantees in the whole process. In other words, while in paragraph 3 it says that ‘the auditing of the AACC in the previous subparagraphs does not suspend the employment of the recruited staff’, this procedure may last for six to seven months and someone may have submitted false supporting documents and may not have been understood or intentionally passed by a completely unclear committee. It does not show who will be in the committee drawing up the tables and doing the molecules. He's just saying that they're going to be in charge. So someone who's in there can work for six, seven, eight or nine months with some fake excuses and then get fired. In fact, he says he won't get redundancies anymore. That would be the extreme point of taking dismissal compensation for someone who has actually been hired with fake supporting documents! We'd like to get some insurance chips in. I therefore propose that, Minister, a member of the ADP should also participate not only in the process of objections, but also in the process of mobilisation and drawing up the tables, that is to say, it is not just a case for some people who are familiar with the IPPs who will make the moleculation. We should also put a limit on the process of disputing objections one or two months, but not let it go up to eight or nine months, and then re-enter for twelve months, as Mr Barriotta said, and thus create virtually armies of contractors who will enter and come out with these procedures. The other amendments and, because of the procedure, we will not vote on them any more, apart from the first one, which refers to the relevant bill, that is, the one concerning the areas to be allocated to the World Health Organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I would like to make a very brief statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u67	Let's finish with Mr. Saridis first. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. The practice of malnutrition continues once again on the government's side. We have too many amendments which come at the last minute and we do not have time to process them or evaluate them properly. I will remain in Mr Manda's last amendment, which I respect and I appreciate as parliamentarian. Nevertheless, I think it is inconsistent with intelligence at the moment to be able to accept that a parliamentary amendment, which is accepted by the Minister, which speaks of things that we cannot assess at the moment and put forward. We will vote against this amendment because it leaves too many ambiguities and creates evil thoughts on the one hand. With regard to Amendment No 1590, which Mr Mandash brought up, although we voted'residents' in this bill, we supported it, that it should in fact be put in place and that it was a positive step, as we in the Central Association saw. On the other hand, we cannot understand the 15-day paid leave that a contractor can take. To attend scientific seminars, fifteen whole calendar days? Fifteen days paid! We cannot accept this easily, Mr President, because, as you can see, seminars are mostly held at weekends and, at any rate, some other daily. But how many seminars within a year will this contractor be invited to attend? We cannot accept this amendment either. The Minister - and I am going to speak about Amendment No 1590 - when we were in our position, which were'residents' in the bill, came back and told us - spoke about the Central Association - that we poorly took this position. Because we talked about the future elements, that it does not give us any future evidence of how the Ministry will move and how it is planned. And it comes with Amendment No 1593 - which we did not even discuss in yesterday's committee, this amendment was tabled after the end of the committee - to confirm to us that there is no design right now. This amendment could be discussed in committee. We voted'residents' in the bill,'residents', as well as in Amendment No 1593, which concerns the spatial expansion of local offices. On this basis, as it stands, we could not disagree. However, as far as the staff of these offices are concerned, we have an objection, from where this staffing will come from. On Amendment No 1595, what can I say? We could say that it is in itself two or three separate amendments. We will not support her, even though we agree with her logic. I believe that this amendment also concerns the extension - if I am not mistaken - of the staff of the Santorini Hospital. We can't put everything in the same bucket, Minister. You should make it easier for us too. That's not a proper way of legislating. We are voting 'at present' on this amendment and on Amendment No 1594, since we agree that the recruitment procedures should be speeded up, but the ambiguities that this amendment leaves do not allow us to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u71	Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u72	We have called for the withdrawal of Amendment No 1596. I do not know if the government insists that the amendment remain. If he insists, we will not participate in the voting process on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr Dessylas has the floor and they will be closed, they have asked for the floor and will speak for three minutes each, the ministers Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Paulakis. Here, Mr Deed, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Within the neck of the eight-year millennium and the fiscal suffocation suffered by the country, the government set us a target and a design - not by idealism and others, as we are accused of - to raise the welfare state, that state which, in the early stages of the memoranda, has shrinked. And it shrank to a very fast and bad degree, so that too many of our fellow citizens - about two and a half million - remained uninsured, children were left uninvasive. It is a throat which cannot be described in terms of health. The government is therefore trying with planning, serious steps and selected moves to bring up this National Health System. All the actions it implements bring positive results, especially to our populations, to the Greeks, but this impact also appears abroad, worldwide. A sample of this government's action on better terms is that our country was chosen by the World Health Organisation to set up an office here. Of course, this was done on the basis of an earlier agreement signed in 2008, which passed by law of 2011, in order to adapt the agreement, and I am also improving it. The agreement takes care to save budgetary commitments, by abolishing the annual regular grant that our state had to give for about ten years, two million per year. That would be unbearable right now. It seems that the Ministry has also found a building to establish the WHO office here in Greece and I think this is a huge positive step. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The Minister, Mr Xanthos, a moment ago in his speech, gave us the planning of the Ministry, that is, the next steps for the next period. I think that the Ministry of Health is one of the ministries that have put their best in this throat, as we have said, to carry out the completion of the National Health System and its support. The National Health System was complemented by the recent law, which we passed in August 2017, on primary health care as regards the care that was not essentially included in the original law, the Law 1397 ‘approximately ESS’. I would like to close with these words, personally supporting both ministerial and parliamentary amendments, Madam President. By voting in favour of these amendments we are facilitating the work of the Ministry for faster and better operation of health and EKAVs and, more generally, the functioning of health structures. However, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister and of my fellow Members to the permission - for which the amendment provides - of the fifteen days for monitoring seminars, etc. It refers to this article that they are entitled to a fortnightly scientific permit. It is not compulsory for them to take it. I would say that this right to fortnight's education leave should be extended to other officials, not only to doctors but also to nurses or social workers, etc., to attend seminars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u76	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Mada, I see you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u78	Just a minute, Madam President, with your permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u79	Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u80	It was the rock of the scandal!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u81	As Mr. Delis says, I was the scandal's stone. I'm not getting used to it, and I'm once again apologising. I would like to clarify the following: firstly, in the amendment on remuneration permits to doctors from local health units for the follow-up of scientific conferences, where it says 'five days a year', the word 'up to' should be added, in proportion to the subsidiary doctors and other doctors in the system. That is the right wording and gives this possibility up to 15 days. As far as Amendment No 1596 is concerned, I withdraw the last paragraph, paragraph 5, concerning compensation for psychologists' sessions. This is absolutely a matter of clarification. Let me clarify this one more time. From misinterpretation in the procedures of the psychology sessions, where the first two sessions are held for diagnosis - they are diagnostic sessions - we have in these sessions a different remuneration compared to all others. In other words, we have a diagnostic process in which psychometric tests are carried out, and then differently rewarded in the process of psychotherapy. That doesn't work. It goes without saying that all the psychologists' associations are asking us to correct it and we must correct it. However, because it has budgetary expenditure and we really need to see it, I withdraw it. The second thing I would like to explain - and I conclude with this - is that the article on which criticism has been made - is that if I remember correctly by Mr Barriotta - I would say that the opposite is on the same footing. It seeks to get sworn accountants into all non-profit mental health organisations in order to have full transparency, which we did not have. And of course, where we have problems, we can see how they will be corrected by the same procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, four students and students and two educational escorts from the Samos Robotic School Group. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will now give the ministers the floor for three minutes only, as has been agreed. Mr. Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u83	I will give two answers to some criticisms that have been heard about the amendments. Mr Matutes, first of all, I should like to make a general remark. From October 2015 until today, more than 150,000 people have been serviced - may be sixteen thousand, because this information is about a month ago - in the health system. There's another three and a half thousand left in the process. Of the nineteen thousand, which was the total design, eight and a half thousand are permanent, the remaining are with different kinds of contracts: four thousand from OAED, two thousand three hundred auxiliary doctors, five hundred five other ancillary staff, about four hundred via OADE for units, programmes for the East Aegean or the "PHILOS" programme, etc. If, with the war you're making us - not you, the system as a whole and especially the Census - were we making massive rhyphetological recruitments, wouldn't you have hanged our strengths in the kiosks? Show me a few cases of these thousands of people who were appointed on the basis of racist criteria. Tell us! They wouldn't say "the two hundred Blonde, two hundred Paulakis, a hundred Mandas" and so on, as they did here in the past. So they were appointed and so they went out, with best mans, tigers, children, dogs, kittens, etc. Tell me! You saw anywhere an intake of these thousands, saying "to say, this was the one appointed, without the order," etc. Tell me! Now listen. This state that we have received is also slow and embarrassing and rotten. It'll change. And it changes through such arrangements. So I ask you, who are also fans - and I say about your side - decentralisation, etc. why can't the health care professionals - because they also did so at the TOMYs, they will do so now - on the basis of what will be described in the joint ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u84	But what if it's not through an APA?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u85	That's why I'm putting the S.H.I.E.L.D. on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u86	But what if it's not through an APA?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u87	Wait a minute, calm down, Mr. Barriotta. You know, to antenna, I'm right, but you have to say something. So listen to me now. There will be things right now. Tomorrow, let's say, the nurses and nurses who serve through CDCs are over. We have given orders since the last notice to hospitals that are serving to go by the permanents who are now being hired to cover these posts. They won't make it. Are we going to close the beds? No, we're not closing the beds. We'll get nursing staff that way, and it needs to be done quickly. And honest and fast. And it's gonna happen. Now look at something else. Do not think the ASEP is the "saint discreet" of speed, because you have heard other times here in Parliament, such as for the 7K, which was announced on 30-12-2016, they have obtained provisional results for some categories in April - May. I said, 'We're running.' Definitive results started to come out from November 2017 until a month ago. Didn't we eat for free and vervesse a year? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We said "to, a thousand six hundred sixty-sixteen" and did not finish it. And it didn't happen by chance, and I'm signing this for you. So, what are you talking about? Object legality on the molecule board, and until the ASA agrees to answer, the gap will not be covered. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u88	No, that's not what I mean. You say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u89	In fact, we say that if the AACC decides, it is immediately enforceable. The person who was wrong, takes the wages of months and nothing else, and the other one is appointed for the entire period originally to be appointed. That's what we're saying. Also, what you said before, go a member of S.H.I.E.L.D., where should they go first? What they have to handle themselves is not going to end on time. Are we going to decentralize them in all regions as well? To go to all three hundred municipalities, then never move! That is the answer to the substance. We'll be right here. We do not plan, Mr Mavrota, our political future on the basis of appointments of relatives and friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u90	Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u91	We plan it on the basis of the change in the situation that we are doing in a health system that we received on the tartars, and at least until now we have balanced it and put a lot of stones in to improve. That's the story junk. This is for the amendment. For the rest, Mr Barriotta, you probably have not read the amendment well. Read it well. What we're doing is a huge unblock. Watch out. We're finally changing and you know what? We didn't know that from our mother's belly. We learn, because there are so many bureaucratic obstacles, the scorpion provisions in various laws that you legislate something and a "fry" comes out of you to another law that they put in to block history. In order to make a hospital a contest costing him time a 10,000 euro material, get a kind of syringes with 10,000, do you know what process has to go through as the big revolutionaries, system reformers and Mr. Loverdos were sitting together? The way you made it with the Health Supply Program, do you know how long he wanted this? Almost two years. Because we had to take all the hospitals in the country, make decisions, go to EPA, recommend EPA, sign Blonde, sign me, sign Juliarakis, sign a plan for the next 10,000 to 30,000 years in the same package. After finishing this, which he did a year and a half to come out - why so much did he do with this rot that we have and are facing - this year and a half, what happened, Mr Barriotta? Then it became what you were saying. The hospitals could not wait a year and a half to complete the Health Procurement Programme - and, not to say anything else, to make a ten grand tender. All this time, then, that the Health Supply Programme had not been published, then they did what they liked, that is, "Take the saradara, take the tens, take the twentys."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u92	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u93	Now, with what we do, we release the administrations to run a competition on this. You didn't read it well. It is advisable, because in addition to what I said before, the way you had made it - and you dare criticise us - since the Health Supply Programme was also coming out, someone else rather than the hospital had to grant approval for the purpose of making the contest. Another semester too! Now, what do we say? You have the budgets. We have set the expenditure ceiling for the whole system, i.e. the expenditure ceiling for the ‘Advertising’, the expenditure limit for ‘General’, the expenditure limit for Karystos. Inside it is the sanitary material, i.e. "both the Evangelism", "both Karystos", "both the Gennamas". Inside it there are dozens of materials. They're homogenized in a class. Regarding the 'Evangelism', for a category of cardiotics, for example, it spends 2 million euros on time. As far as health material is concerned, it is within the limit of costs. The decision on the feasibility of the procurement is not signed by the Minister. It's taken by the board of directors to the limits of its expenses and it publishes the tender. That's why there were no competitions, for that saddle you had made! For while they had the money, the Health Supply Programme - that is, one and a half years and two years - had to come out, there was a delay of six or seven months to approve the feasibility of each tender! And it never happened! And there was a monkey party that way!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u94	Minister, please, you've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u95	Hospitals cannot wait to complete this. They have patients inside, they have needs. They have to buy. And how did they buy? The way they knew! That's how you accumulated 85 billion euros! That's what we're fixing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u97	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u98	On what matter now? Do you have anything specific?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u99	I would like to speak for a minute, Madam President, because he has referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u100	We don't have a dialogue like this now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u101	That's what I'm saying, 'cause then he'll answer you and we won't leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u102	The Minister is making judgments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u103	Look, as much as he was talking, you were talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u104	The Minister makes moral crises, because he knows there is no representative. He doesn't have the right. There's a matter of moral and personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u105	I'll give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u106	Minister, I agree with what you are saying, except that you voted for the law at the EMCDDA. You have the obligation to sign the Minister for the purchase of paper at the Dubois Centre. I didn't legislate her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u107	You're confusing yourself again. One more, the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u108	I'm not confused at all. We talked about it then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Polakis, let him speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u110	Wait a minute, we said I'd talk. You were talking for 15 minutes. The law you're amending...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u111	Another task is the supply of CT scanners and the supply of consumable materials.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u112	Please, Mr. Polakis. First of all, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u113	I'll wait for it to end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u114	I told you, Mr. Barriotta. You insist on giving an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u115	But how's it going to be? He can't speak for himself in the House. It's not his grandfather's field! The law you are amending, you voted for it. As far as the procurement law is concerned, the EMCDDA... You changed his name. By "National Committee on Supplies", you have done so "ECAI". You voted for him. We had said then that 'centralization', in the way you see it, does not work. But there are computer tools, there are modern tools for purchases and supplies, which they work for. See how the "centralization" works in the "metropolitan area of London". It's an excellent example of how digital technology gets in everywhere. Regression to the law of Avramopoulos, to the forty-five pendants, regardless of the source of funding, and regardless of whether it is a project, if it is a market, if it is an investment, is a specific problem. And it's a backwardness. As a regression in periods of incredible ‘Delegianism’ is the notice for ancillarys. All types of control shall be abolished and any impact on illegal persons, whether public or applicants. That's the truth. How does this work in real life? I'm going to make a "digit" fake, because my party will tell me to do it, they'll take me, they'll pay me for nine of the twelve months - at the worst, if I'm unlucky - and then they'll take another one. That's what you legislate. I will make one final comment to respect the time. For numbers, I have repeatedly caused you to submit numbers for appointments. One is fifteen, the other is seventeen, the other is thirty two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Barriotta, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u117	After that little mistake in the CDC, you still don't think about it. Check numbers. I've said it several times. The numbers you testify are not cross-referenced, they're not really. If you want to maintain traces of credibility, testify numbers proven, so many were hired from 5K, so many were in hospitals since 7K. We haven't seen it anywhere. Check it out and don't say free numbers, cut that out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u119	I'll only need a minute, Madam President. However, Mr Minister, you should not be extinguished when we propose certain safeguards so that there is as much transparency as possible, as much democracy as possible, there is no'stuffs'. Mr. Barriots has been mentioned in a few. Let us be suspicious in general with the government in these matters. When notices are made about the administrative secretaries and these notices are photographic for some who are excellent to some ministers or secretaries and others - and now we are becoming a resilient, because they have to be all things, because they have obviously proved to be all photographic, except for some ministries - let us want insurance in these matters. In this case, a very good insurance policy would be to say that the AACC decides on the objections within one month. If we put that in the law, there would be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Blonde has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u121	We have not finally avoided concluding a debate on the ratification of an agreement, in which the political forces largely agree and approve it, with intensity. I accept the core of criticism that there is indeed sufficient time for dialogue and clarification for certain amendments to avoid such controversy that I think they are unfair to us, because obviously - and Mr Paulakis has already said - I will say two words too - is not the objective that you are trying to highlight. I would first like to talk about the amendments tabled by Mr Mandash. The amendment on the possibility of training permits for doctors in local health establishments adds the phrase 'up to 15 days'. This is compatible with what is currently in force for other doctors in the public health system. I wonder how there was skepticism as to whether there should be such an arrangement. I think it is perfectly reasonable. It hadn't been arranged for auxiliary doctors in the past. We set it up. When we consciously covered a very large part of the gaps in the public health system with subsidiary doctors, we found that there was this law gap and we faced it, because they are obviously doctors working today in public hospitals, they cover vital needs and, of course, like the other doctors of the ESS, they also have the needs of continuing education and the renewal of their knowledge. That is what we now foresee for the doctors of the TOMY. It's, if you want, and a motive for attracting these doctors. We are now preparing to reintroduce the empty positions that have existed. We already have more than seventy local health units in operation. The first steps are very encouraging. Local communities know that very well. There is a very systematic effort to reorganise a landscape that was dissolved with specific political options in 2014 and to have structures, family doctors, health teams from other professionals, offering reliable services and, indeed, contributing to a new culture in the health system with emphasis on prevention, health care, community care, etc. In the second amendment, which Mr Mandash presented with a corrective change, we also accept the elimination of paragraph 5, which obviously has a small budgetary impact, which is right and ethically appropriate to be assessed by the GCC. Allow me, too, to make one final comment on this debate beforehand. I believe that this intervention, which we are doing to change the way in which other ancillary staff are recruited, is a very central intervention. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is very simple. Do we want a mechanism that is transparent, of course, with an electronic platform, ladies and gentlemen, with the approval of the ADP, a mechanism for early coverage of the gaps in the public health system, yes or no? That's the question. To these doctors we have answered, the possibility of listing each specialty in each health region has been brought by this government. I would remind you - and my colleagues know very well - that this has been a process. The position for an adjunctive doctor was declared and he wanted six to seven months to finish the procedure. So we changed it in 2015, when we took it, because we understood that this is the only way not to allow the public health system to collapse and to cover with the recruitment of subsidiary doctors, which we have even increased their duration. We did two years in all units of prefecture hospitals and three years in too many specialties, and increased their duration. We've made a list by specialty and by sanitary district. Two thousand people have been hired in this way and no one has said a word. That's what we're going to do now. By analogy, therefore, the arrangements made for subsidiary doctors, we are changing the system for other subsidiary staff, which, in order to meet certain needs, which are constantly created due to pensions, as a result of diseases, etc., we had to take an act of ministerial council, get the notice and spend six to eight months in order to cover the gap. This is not called emergency coverage with ancillary personnel. We are also allowing these workers to have a term of office of up to two years. It is important to intervene in the stability of the health system. In this way, we will also cover the completion of the contracts, which will now arise for the IMIs through the CEDEFOP, which really have to be completed, by making use of this body to cover the system's constant and lasting needs and by focusing on its real role, which will also be an institutional reorganisation, which is the protection of public health. There is therefore a very important intervention. We're decentralizing the process. Of course, he's under the control of the AAP. Of course, there must be security differences, but we must now be critical that this is irritating the record of moralisation and that this is a shame, and that, in my view, is insulting our intelligence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, amending the Agreement on Reception between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, establishing the Support Office for Prevention and Control of Untransmitted Diseases in Athens, Greece and other provisions". We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all, and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u123	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u124	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u125	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Repeal of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, amending the Reception Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the World Health Organisation, acting through its Regional Office for Europe, establishing the Support Office for the Prevention and Control of Untransmitted Diseases in Athens, Greece and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole of the articles and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u127	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-30-S1-commons.u128	With the consent of the House at 13.13 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 31 May 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
