ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we begin the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday 22 October 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 63/16-10-2018 by MP Kozanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Themistoclis (Themi) Mumulides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The increase in VAT to the concerts in 24% is devastating for Greek music and Greek creators and artists". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 68-16-10-2018 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek public and making available for social purposes". 3. The Question No 61/16-10-2018 by the Member of Parliament in the Folketing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Why do you not accept the amendment of the PHS for the operation of medically supervised areas for psychoactive substances? Can a National Action Plan against Drugs be drawn up without National Coordinator?’ 4. The Question No 55/11-10-2018 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" is uncontrolled. 5. The question by No 52/10-10-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Obligation to apply the laws of the Greek state by the Greek courts of all levels." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 62/16-10-2018 by MP Pellis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Tsakris to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Integration of the Pella Law in the First Zone for the grant of the heating oil allowance". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 69/16-10-2018 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jasona Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "A mistaken treatment of the health bomb in Moria Lesvos from the Ministry". 3. The 11/1-10-2018 topical question of the Athens Parliamentary I, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Safe in the city of Athens". 4. The 2/1-10-2018 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "An urgent violence was carried out by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki against the Prespecies Agreement". 5. The Question No 36/8-10-2018 by Congressman Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An overview of general government expenditure". 6. The 19/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on "The rest of the Molyviati Fund". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 28/8-10-2018, a timely question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Kazan ready to explode the state of Skopje". 8. The Question No 17/2-10-2018 by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of Law 128/75 for the help of the East Attica". 9. The Question No 43/9-10-2018 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "About a philosophical event in Florina". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how seven students and students and three teachers from the 1st Blessed High School, first. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the fact that the committee of inquiry into health scandals in the years 1997-2014, set up in accordance with Articles 144 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament for which the Plenary Assembly has set a deadline for submitting its findings on 23 October 2018, requesting an extension of its operation until 23 November 2018. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take note of the fact that the intergroup parliamentary committee on demographics set up on 22-5-2017, in accordance with Rules 44 and 45 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report by 31 October 2018, calls for an extension of its operation until 15 December 2018. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u3	So the House unanimously agreed. We're continuing with the announcements. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Urgent Arrangements for the submission of statements of assets and other provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the ninth debate with number 388/8-10-2018, a topical question from the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Extending the second phase of the expansion of the Megalopolitan district network." The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Efstathos Giannakides. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for your bad luck Mr. Haritsis has quickly left the Ministry, and today you must answer for Mr. Haritsi's sake. But you're in the SYRIZA government, in general, all of you, in logic, I mean. Look, I'll tell you about a subject that has never been done before. If we had a video Wall here and put on the speeches by Mr. Haritsis and Mr. Tsipras for four years, we would see what Tsipras is about, what Tsipras means and what SYRIZA. Lies, lies, lies! But let's go tell you. The project "best phase of the expansion of Megalopolis district heating network" of 15m euros, was integrated as a potential act in the 2014 PPC. When you came to the government in 2015, you replied. I will read you out of the Minutes of Parliament, exactly what Mr Haritsis said on December 19, 2016, and I will submit them. The project will be implemented in early 2017 in order to contribute to the ‘Infrastructure, Transport, Environment and Sustainable Development 2014-2020’ programme, which provides for funding for the implementation of energy savings through Axis 10 and institutional objective 4 and in particular investment priority 4g. These in 2016. On 26 May 2017, Mr. Haritsis says that the Government has launched a revision of the ESRB's programmes and will be completed - ‘Is Mr. Haritsis and the SYRIZA Government committed?’ You will tell me now, but in any case we have, what to do - in February 2018, Mr Giannakides. That's what Mr. Haritsis said on May 26, 2017. Come on in, that's it. Let's go on April 17, 2018. The Minister didn't come to the House. On 8 June 2018, he finally answers a question - I have it here and I will table it - and he says that in the next six months and during the second half of 2018 - we are now two months before, we have arrived in 2018 - he will issue a call for proposals to be made for funding, which will only concern projects to be evaluated with a view to their integration. That's different. Haritsis signs it. I want, Minister, to ask you, in fact, honestly if you were a resident of Arcadia, Megalopolis, a simple citizen, what would you think after all that the Minister responsible, your government, has said? Because it is not personal and I want to tell you that I very much appreciate Mr. Haritsis. So much lies have been told, have you thought today about talking, what are you going to say? I hope that you will not leave a government and that the programme has not even been incorporated. It's absolutely your responsibility now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I will start by saying that I feel very lucky that I am given the opportunity to show overall - on the basis of a specific fact - a specific project, the rich work done by my predecessor and the Ministry of Economy and Development as a whole, in terms of both this project and the overall course of implementation of the NSRP 2014-2020. We have said several times that our country's performance in terms of activation and absorption of the ESRB ranks us at the top of the ranking between the Member States, and that is something that all responsible bodies and officials recognize and highlight at every opportunity. I understand your refusal to admit this fact, because in the years of your own governance such an achievement would be impossible. The lack of strategy that characterised your policy over the past few years has created a series of purposes that have delayed the implementation of ESDP actions. I would like to mention that mismanagement and sectarianism have been a major obstacle, which now belongs to the past. The country's compliance with European policies, the necessary transparency and good management now enable us to make best use of European funds and programmes. And to come specifically to your question, I would like to inform you that in the 2014-2020 programming period and specifically in the Operational Programme ‘Infrastructure, Transport, Environment and Sustainable Development 2014-2020’, funding is planned for the implementation of energy saving actions. These actions are part of the priority axis for the implementation of low-carbon strategies with emphasis on urban areas and the thematic objective to support the transition to a low-carbon economy in all sectors and in particular investment priority to promote the use of high-efficiency cogeneration based on demand for useful heat. Therefore, by means of the integration action to expand infrastructures to increase cogeneration capacity, district heating in the country, in particular in the regions of Western Macedonia and the Peloponnese. In December 2014, the project to extend the Megalopolis district district heating network was included as an act that is in front of national resources, with a commitment to activate the action, but not to open financial tenders to a tender that will be conducted if the operation has not previously been incorporated into a co-financed operational programme. The district heating beneficiary Megalopolis S.A. THETA had been officially informed by document from the relevant departments of our Ministry. Subsequently, on 24-10-2016, the fifth specificity of the HYMERA Programme was approved by the Second Monitoring Committee. This specialisation included the integration - extension of infrastructure to increase electricity capacity through the cogeneration of district heating in Kozani and Florina, as mature projects were promoted. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Until the programme was specialized for the work you are addressing in your question, no competitive procedure had gone ahead. That is why it was not included in it. In the specialisation of the programme adopted on 13-4-2018, programmatic resources increased from EUR 24,750,000 to EUR 42,477,000. This action concerns the promotion of primary energy savings through the implementation of integrated interventions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u8	Minister, let me remind you that you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude soon, Mr President. The action therefore concerns promoting primary energy savings through the implementation of integrated heat and electricity cogeneration interventions in infrastructures and installations with a view to combining the pronounced flagship of installations and achieving high-efficiency cogeneration in order to contribute both to public awareness and to the mobilisation of the private sector. The above action seeks to complete two facing projects in the Region of Western Macedonia - remote heating Florina and district heating Kozani - as well as new corresponding projects in the regions of Western Macedonia and the Peloponnese and specifically in Megalopolis, which you refer to in our question. In the very near future and in 2018, we proceed with the adoption of a call for proposals for funding, which will only concern new projects, to be assessed for the purpose of their integration into the AIFM programme for funding. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Constantinople, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have asked a question about the ESDP. I'll talk to you about that. Let's not confuse everything. I understand you're here, something you have to say. I want to remind you of something, they probably haven't told you about it. I did not want to tell you at the beginning, but they have not informed you that the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, had told the regional conference that it would be completed in 2018. I only told you what Mr. Haritsis had said, but I did not tell you what Mr. Tsipras said in Tripoli. Now you know what you're saying? Mr. Tsipras in Tripoli on 27 February did not talk about an evaluation of a project or about what you were saying. He talked about joining the project in 2018. Who should I believe? You or Mr. Tsipras? Tell me who to believe. I do not believe anyone, but in any case let us say that he is the Prime Minister of the country. You say you'll get an invitation to be evaluated. Mr Tsipras spoke of accession, Mr Giannakides, to the bodies of the Peloponnese Region. Who's telling the truth? Look, I'll tell you something. This project is a project involving an area that has been through a very difficult time because of the use of lignite. The citizens will listen to us in Arcadia and understand what I said, what Mr Tsipras said, what you said. That's not what I'm worried about. That's for me the least. I'm not even concerned about the impressions. However, I am very concerned about something very important and it is about the implementation of the project. The implementation of the project, Mr Giannakides, in an area like Megalopolis, will create too many synergies for the development of the area. It will reduce the cost to the residents who live there. It will also reduce costs if they use it in agriculture and livestock. They will thus be able to reduce costs and make it attractive to investment. Do something. You're leaving in a while. On the basis of what Mr Voutsis said in May, you will have an election. Unfortunately for you you will have lied five years and I hope and hope, indeed, that I will be disproved and incorporated into the work during your term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much Mr. Constantinople. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u13	On the occasion of your denology, you really put me in the temptation to remind you of some things about your own policies and responsibilities for the management of the NRPs and more of the European funds. And that is because the work in Megalopoli is particularly indicative of what the results of this policy were, what the problems were and how our Government is working systematically to overcome them. So I say to you that when the work in Megalopoli took place by your government in the Public Investment Programme, it was not mature and was therefore unable to do so to date. And that was a practice you've always chosen. Today the Greek Government can overcome all the difficulties and obstacles that your mismanagement and your policies had put forward, difficulties that in the case of the ESRB had to do with the ex ante heresy and made it difficult to implement actions of the period 2014-2020. Let me also remind you that more hereticism has been imposed on your day in our country than any other Member State - Member of the European Union. The phenomena of mismanagement and corruption complemented your policy, characterised by total lack of strategy. In reverse this picture, the country is at the top of the activation and absorption of European resources and we are launching the implementation of important projects for the local communities and the Greek economy. Projects contributing both to the awareness of the population and to the mobilisation of the private sector, such as the specific work that we are discussing today. You may be rushing and wishing to leave this government quickly, but as history has shown, this is not going to happen despite your will. We are ready to develop the overall development plan for this country, a plan that on your day and as it was submitted to the Eurogroup, was made up of just eight pages, which demonstrates the total lack of a development strategy for that country and certainly for our day, the work in Megalopolis will also be carried out as well as everything that you have left as unfinished as from the previous period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we proceed to the debate on the next timely question, I should like to read out some of the hindrances. The tenth under number 26/5-10-2018 a topical question by the Independent Member of the Piraeus Parliament, Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "with regard to the amendment of the Presidential Decree on Mufts", will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the honourable Member. The first under number 67/16-10-2018, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Christos Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of ‘Absorbing the resources of the NSRP 2014-2020’, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member. Also, the third with number 53/11-10-2018, a top-stage question by MP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Strengthening the Port House in view of the establishment of an EEZ and the extraction of hydrocarbons and natural gas”, will not be discussed. The sixth question under number 20/3-10-10-2018, topical and urgent debate, on 'Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou, Minister for Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject of: 'Turkish challenging in the Aegean shall not be discussed. We continue with three topical questions which the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. We begin with the fourth with the number 72/16-10-2018 topical question of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To provide a solution immediately to the question of the cleanliness and hygiene of schools". Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is the problem of the cleanliness and hygiene of schools. It is a problem, of course, that often brings parents and teachers to despair. Young children, particularly in primary education, are very often diagnosed with diseases transmitted by toilets that are not adequately cleaned and frequently. In too many schools this terrible situation occurs. Children are being collated because of a minimum number of toilets, due to a lack of cleaning staff during school's operation, due to a lack of hygiene materials and much more. This situation leads, especially to younger children, to various diseases such as urinary infections. They don't go to the toilet all day, so they do it on top of them - let the expression - and there have been several other infections. In several school units, parents' associations are asked to cover the shortcomings by a private person for cleaning or for the necessary hygiene materials or even for the construction, maintenance of sanitary facilities, as the issue of children's health is a primary and immediate one and the competent bodies deliberately do not offer solutions or because they have the financial weakness. The status of contractual clearers is intensifying the problem. It's an important job. According to their contract, their merciful salaries are calculated on the basis of the school rooms cleaned up, without taking into account the other schools' premises such as the workshop room, auxiliary and intangible premises, the teachers' offices and the toilets. Municipalities as responsible for school buildings, instead of shouting and claiming, raise their hands high, since legislation and funding by INEDIDIS determines the contracts, the number of cleaning staff, the funding of school committees with the drop-off. Municipal budgets are being charged, while resources from central self-resources have been reduced by more than 60%. The mayors, however, knew how to shout to take responsibility for the state. The result is every year that workers cleaners are faced with the threat of renewal or not of contracts, with part-time psychiatry and the hygiene of school units permanently and often tragicly incomplete. We ask you, Minister, as you and your Government say that we have now entered the memorial regularity: will work contracts for school cleaning staff be converted into permanent contracts and with full hours, so as to finally deal with the critical issue of child hygiene in schools? Secondly, will the funding of school committees in general, and especially from INEDIBIM, be increased to meet the needs of cleaning staff? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I would like to make two comments in advance. It's not personal to comment. I think that, when there are schools and they are a day of parliamentary scrutiny, such as a debate on topical questions, we should explain to children why there are so few Members in the Chamber in relation to the plenary because they give a sense of lack of interest to Members. I insist, and I have told other Presidents. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u18	Of course, Mr Minister, and we will explain it for the students who are currently entering the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u19	Oh, that's good. I didn't see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u20	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u21	Secondly, you said the title of a question by Mr Kammenos who said last night that he could not. There's no freezing of the presidential decree in the mushrooms. There's a direct activation of the law, no matter when the presidential decree comes out, because as we know...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u22	I think you will have the opportunity, when the question is retabled, to have a dialogue with my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u23	Yes, but impressions are being created for something very delicate and important. Now I come to what Mr. Synthrakis said. Mr. Synthraki, you know sometime, we're different in describing reality. What you said is true. Our impression is that they apply to a very small percentage of schools, even for that reason they should not apply. I mean all the situation you described with the kids. But let's not stand on this. You know that cleaners are hired after proposals from the municipalities. Right? So there is something you said toward the end of your speech. The municipalities have claimed rights and today they are unable to meet their obligations. We don't think it's a matter of funding. Let me tell you that there is a sum of EUR 100 million and, since 2019, it will be EUR 110 million on the issue of cleanliness and care for schools. The municipalities, however, as you know very well, do not plan for building maintenance, where there is obviously sanitary spaces. Here, then, there is a very serious issue, and this is the question of the co-operation of the municipalities with the central authority on the one hand and the municipalities with the schools on the other hand, because, as you know, the operating costs and, above all, the maintenance depends on the municipalities. Now, there is indeed a problem with the recruitment of permanent cleaners. But you also know very well that last year we managed to incorporate public spaces and sanitary facilities into the contracts of cleaners. In fact, it shocked us when we saw that in their contracts there are no such places, while people were cleaning up these spaces. What I want to say to you is that at the moment we are making every effort and because of the memorial situation, strengthening this sector that we consider to be an organic part of the daily life of schools. That means better contracts and higher wages. I think we have taken some steps, small - I am not saying that we have solved the problem - but it is in the right direction. And I call on the school committees and municipalities to be able to take into account what they have claimed. The permanent claim that they have no money I think is an alibi that in many cases we have seen. I've seen it very specifically, and it's really an alibi and it doesn't really respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how it operates, thirty-six students and students and four teachers from the 5th Municipal School of Wyron and from the 10th Municipal School of Nea Ionia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As the Minister for Education has rightly said, you are concerned with the issues we are discussing, at the moment you are following the topical and urgent procedure where the Member concerned has the right to ask the Minister about some issues relating to topicality. The Minister for Education is right now with us and the Members are asking questions directly linked to your own occupation, which is no more than your own school and your school years. Mr. Synhronakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have commented that we differ in describing the problems and that the question of school hygiene applies to a very small part of schools. I can't count which schools they have and who they don't have. It seems, however, that it is also acute for two very important reasons: one is sub-financing, because it plays a decisive role in money - it is the driving force - and the other, of course, is the cleaning work. You know that both - and the subject of sub-financing and the issue of cleaning work - are general to all schools. It's not confined to anyone. So the problems of hygiene, which is the direct consequence of the two previous issues that I have told you, seem to be in too many schools and the government has the first and the main responsibility, of course the previous ones. Cities, like regions, are a state, it is a state mechanism. So, on the one hand, the government has the primary and primary responsibility and, of course, the municipalities have their own responsibility, because they have accepted the transfer of school competences to the municipalities and, at the same time, without the relevant resources, the school committees are counting five-dollars to meet minimum operational needs and, at the same time, the state from this story to take its tail out. That is what you said in your prototype: "You know, the first and the main responsibility lies with the municipalities, who do not do maintenance. It is not a matter," you said, "funding, but for the fact that municipalities do not plan to maintain school units." It's very subjective. I don't think that's true. The municipalities simply don't have the financial capacity at the moment. Of course, there may also be indifference, and in some cases there may be incompetence. But the state, the government, has the first and the main responsibility. Workers in the cleanliness of public schools have been struggling every day, Minister, and in difficult conditions for many years, so that schools are clean, students, parents, teachers to operate in a healthy and safe environment. Although the need for cleanliness and hygiene in schools is uninterrupted and compulsory, workers have been forced to work with renewed, repeated contracts in order not to guarantee any work-right and to keep their hostage and uncertain. What did you say in the protology? "We are trying to strengthen the cleaning industry...", if I have understood correctly, "with better wages and higher wages." That's pretty general. This does not guarantee either permanentity or better working conditions, wage rights. While covering fixed and long-term needs, the State considers them to be the cleaners on the substance of a lump sum and with no rights. They work in a precarious state, sometimes experiencing extortion and dismissal whenever they demand respect and decent working conditions. They don't even have the basic right to leave - take care - of sickness, maternity. Payroll is often delayed unnecessarily, resulting in total despair. They don't receive a Christmas gift, a Easter gift, a license. They are denied many times by the school committees for the granting by law of intended personal protective equipment and milk, or often when they take milk, the date on which the milk ends may be a few days after the worker receives it. Nearly all workers in the sector are people who support multi-texts, third-texts, single-parent families, protected disabled members. They get paid, do you know how much? 1000 to 5000 per year and are paid with a minimum of euros for each teaching room regardless of working hours and with an obligation to deliver the school every day clean and secure. A lot could be said, but I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that the cleanliness of schools, the hygiene of children cannot be seriously guaranteed by this working regime and by this regularity that you mentioned earlier, which is essentially a switch to a solution to the whole problem in the adolescents. We consider these people to cover the constant and constant needs of schools. That is why permanent, complete, stable work with indefinite contracts and full-time, insurance rights, the permanentization of workers, without conditions and conditions, dignified wages, the reintroduction of the entire industry to heavy and unhealthy health, since there is already a debate on who will join and who will come out of heavy and unhealthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President. They must have human working conditions, the health and safety rules must be observed, the means of personal protection must be provided with retroactive effect. There must also be a timely and immediate payment of paid earnings and a safety and not a job security. No drop in seats in the cleaners' program! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u29	Look, I understand the reason for the full adoption of all these requests. You said that, but we have to make it clear that you're talking about contractors, you don't talk about permanents. It is important, because we must not give the impression that all those who work in this sector are contracted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u30	We're talking about cleaning houses in schools that are on project contracts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u31	Exactly, with project contracts, that's what I'm saying. But there's also a set of cleaners that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u32	Other departments, other ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u33	Look, it's not all about whether the municipalities have the financial capacity or not. What I tried to say is that the municipalities right now have no programming. I ask for the programming on several occasions and it came from the three hundred twenty-five municipalities across the country, from less than twenty-five, to plan for what they do in education. Unfortunately, is there any, like, lumpy? I don't want to say indifference. Can I say red tape? However, there is something that needs to be improved, so that the central authority too can have an opinion on what needs are and do not become general. The second point you raised - which is important and I agree with you - relates to the conventions of these people. These conventions must be improved. What I am asking you, however, is whether there has been improvement in recent years. We say there's an improvement. Is it too much to say that this is over? Obviously, it's not. We believe that in the memorial period in which we enter - and, as you know very well, we have already announced fifteen thousand teaching staff recruitment for the next three years and procedures for the four and a half thousand in special education are already under way - we are trying to settle a situation which we have maintained in the years of the crisis. We found pathogens that were unbelievable. We have tried to maintain a situation, to improve it by what and now we are on a path with which we think we will go to the next step. There, indeed, this sector, these workers must have their place in terms of improving all these issues that you have said. I still think we should see things in a realistic context. We say that there are improvement steps. These need to be safeguarded, and then we need to see what the next steps can be. In order not to think that I do not want to respond to contracts of indefinite duration, obviously people who are essential to the day-to-day life of schools must have such a status. And obviously, there will always be some helpful persons or people who will not have contracts of that nature. That is why the first thing we're going to make up for is the issue of assistant teachers. You know we have a huge percentage of assistant teachers. This has not only adverse effects on individuals themselves, but also on the educational process itself. So now we are going to this programming, which has been consolidated and the budget and so on. In addition to this, we need to see all persons working in cleanliness, people carrying out administrative work in schools and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you what timely questions will not be discussed. The first, with number 66/16-10-2018, top-stage question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: "Acquisitions to upgrade the operation of the Academy of Merchant Navy in Kalymnos", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr.Photi - Fanourios Kouvelis, due to unsettled commitments. The second, with number 59/12-10-2018, timely question for the first cycle of the MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR M.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The state of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ) will not be discussed because of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Stergios Pitsirla, due to a government mission in Pylos. The seventh question, No. 27/5-10-2018, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Governmental misinformation, that the guarantors of the highly indebted households are protected", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Stergios Pitsirla, due to a government mission in Pylos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "The Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, sixteen students and students and two teachers attendants from the 7th Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes them. Dear children, follow the topical and urgent question procedure, which the Member of Parliament is asking the Minister for some timely matters, and there is a fruitful discussion. For this reason and you see a few attendants in the Hall. Next is the fifth under number 60/16-10-2018 topical question by the Independent MP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The procedures for the compulsoryity of pre-school education in public and municipal structures". Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am sure you know very well and take into account the importance of pre-school education, in cognitively less, I would say, but above all in socialisation and the development of the social personality of each child, as well as in the issues that have to do with the fight against poverty and the creation of equal opportunities for the new generations that are coming and which are the future of our country. You know very well that the situation in our country is not where it should be. The European Union's annual report on the monitoring of education and training, 2017, is the last, and which effectively monitors the progress of the countries on the Barcelona objectives for 2020 ranks our country in a problematic position. With regard to the four-year-olds at 79.6%, third from the end, and with regard to the three-year-olds we are at 12%, very far from the 33% target that is for 2020. I am sure that this is what you have taken into account in your attempt this year to force our country into a reasonable compulsory pre-school education, by going down the years and trying to push the pilot projects into these municipalities. However, compulsoryity, firstly, is not an objective that the Prime Minister himself had spoken of and, secondly, the European Union itself is talking about accessibility rather than compulsoryity. So here we have an attempt to impose a certain policy, because you are perhaps only looking at the figures and, in an attempt to achieve them, you are making a policy that is violent on the one hand and, rather, without the necessary funds for investment. I therefore ask you, Minister: what is your timing and what is the total amount of the budget for recruitment and the creation of new structures to implement this compulsoryity? I asked you for the financial information in detail. What about the thousands of nursery and other scientific staff currently employed at private and municipal school stations? What conditions for the participation of private children's stations in compulsory education in general, other voucher systems, etc.Huh? How does your Ministry's choice of universality by accessibility, which the European Union prefers to be better, explains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. After sixty-one years we have managed in that country to have compulsory two-year pre-school education. Do not the citizens of this country think that forcedness means something repressive. I think you said very well that it is not the subject of cognitiveness, but it is a matter of socialising these children. So look what happened. You have to go in kindergarten for a year, so you can write in elementary school. So we say that after three years everyone will be able to go to kindergarten for two years and write to primary school. This year, of the three hundred and twenty-five municipalities in the hundred eighty-seven, far more than half of the population, we managed and have two-year-old pre-school education. Next year we will have additional hundred more municipalities and the third year will be completed in all three hundred and twenty-five municipalities. You understand, and in this you have to agree, that this is a huge project and you cannot say that by pressing a button from time to time everyone should have this possibility. The second very important thing is that so far many four-year-olds have been going to nurseries. That meant that there were far smaller children excluded. So by integrating four years into the first year of pre-school education now we give the opportunity for many younger children to go to nurseries. So they're all won, and they're mostly won by new couples, who had very young children, who couldn't go to the nursery stations just because they were four years old. The logic is, therefore, to increase the number of young children in nursery schools, to increase the number of four years in pre-school education. That seems to have been possible in the eighty-seven municipalities that we already have. That's all they want of an infrastructure, as you understand, and as you say. In eighty-seven municipalities the decision was taken unanimously, i.e. the mayor, the teacher’s representative and the principal of primary education voted. So unanimously they decided that they had the logistics infrastructure. We have obviously also appointed the necessary kindergartens. Then we'll make a mixed system. In other words, we have kindergartens that are built, we have places that we will rent, and we have the possibility of prefabricated areas, which, as you know, are not as old as prefabricated spaces. At the moment they have European standards, they have many possibilities, they are spacious, they have twenty-five years guarantees, etc. So next year with an additional EUR 4.30,000 investment, we will be able to get children involved in compulsory two-year education in these hundred municipalities. Because I do not want to consume my time, the rest I will say in dentistry, listening to Mr. Theocharis. There's nothing to overthrow your trilogy. Don't think I'm doing this for trade union reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u39	Minister, I was sure - but I am pleased to see it in practice - that we agree on the spirit, the objective, the feasibility. There, however, I see that we disagree is in the way, methodology and ultimately in the results. You have presented us with a very positive, idyllic picture and are, of course, expected to be some problems for such a complex project. However, it is not expected that Saints Anargyros will have a closed container, without natural ventilation, in which children will be inside, according to complaints from parents. I repeat what I said in my prototype. I think you want to achieve a complex project without investing. You'll tell me, with the lousy finances that the Treasury allows us, we're trying to do all of this. But that is not why, and that is not an excuse to experiment on the backs of infants, infants and young children. We also discussed the preliminary draft budget yesterday and the day before yesterday. There, in the positive scenario for the government, the 150 million euros that would be given for day-care stations are falling to EUR 22 million. I hope that you will have the opportunity to speak with the Minister of Finance and not go along with that logic. I say again that it is the scenario in which pensions are not cut and the scenario that the Minister of Finance told us yesterday that it was almost in agreement with the outside, and that will be implemented. In this scenario, resources are falling further. This year you have not achieved your goal. Of the hundred and thirty-five thousand children, about a hundred twenty thousand children and fifteen thousand children were left outside. Thirty one municipality had smashed the alarm, stating that there are no suitable buildings. I have the relevant documents and I'll give them to you. We have problems with the CIS. We should have structures. We should have been able to create such structures and give this time and proper planning before the announcements. But, at the moment, the CCTBT is being transferred to the supra-transfer, is being carried away - it is being disfellowshipped. Over a hundred fifty workers were transferred elsewhere. I will also present to you a statement from the workers' association about the problems there. All of this does not allow you to use these structures to create building infrastructures that are necessary. That's the first problem. The second problem concerns staff. You promised there would be a staff. To date, as we are approaching the end of October, there has not yet been a single appointment to solve the problems. The third problem concerns the educational programme. No training. So we start a process without having the basic one. What do we have to achieve with these children? Is it a parking lot? It is obvious that it is positive for families, especially single parent families, who may not have any support for the parent to be able to work, but it is not possible for children to simply send them to 'parking'. There must be a programme, some objectives must be achieved, some things must be learned in relation to their contact with other children, people who are foreign to them, with what this implies for their socialisation and the development of their personality. So we see little progress, turtle rate. For example, when it comes to the EUR 95 million from the NSRP that you want to give for the creation of structures, only one has been received, as I see it, the 'Child House of Crosfield' in Drapetsona. We therefore see that the problems are huge and very important. Even for private children's homes, the deadline for licensing expired on 25 September. So we also have an informal regime in which there are no proper permits. I shall also table a document in which we see these problems. I therefore conclude by telling you that it is very important both for the sake of these children themselves and for reasons of social mobility. It is no coincidence that in France President McCrone announced a programme against poverty and at the heart of this programme are the objectives for the education of infants from three years to over, so that they can escape the unfavourable socio-economic environment and be able to achieve their lives. It is reasons for equality and opportunity for families to be able to plan and have a human life, without continuity with the stress their children will leave, so that they can meet professional and other obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u40	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President, shortly. And finally, there are the objectives that we have within the framework of the European Union. We are used to talking about the European Union as a creator of economic and other problems. But in this case the European Union is a man here, it gives us help, it gives us a methodology, and we should use it to achieve these goals in a better way. Look, Minister, to save the child, because, if you save it, there's hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u43	I think there is a confusion, you will allow me to tell you. Preschools are a structure whose responsibility is shared by the municipality. So the municipality - and rightly - arranges care for these children. We say this because there is indeed a matter of care, which is different from education. The classes from which kindergartens are graduated are early childhood care departments and are in social science schools, are not in pedagogical schools. It's important. And it is important for the reason you have also spoken about. So we have the kids there to socialize. We have children there for many different social reasons, including parents' needs. Let's go to kindergarten. The kindergarten has another logic, so we say the four-year-olds are in kindergarten. It is wrong to comment on kindergarten, because unfortunately many parents have a feeling that the child will go to kindergarten to learn letters. That's not the kindergarten reason, obviously. So there are programs. We have sent in kindergartens to all these new structures, there is nowhere to go. Of course, in many kindergartens, who have many classes together, there is an issue of a lack of auxiliary staff, etc., but as far as kindergartens themselves are concerned there is no problem at all. You referred to the Saints Anargyrus, it wasn't in your question. If I remember correctly, I may be wrong, in Agios Anargyros there is a kindergarten which is normally in a building and the municipality now has found an area to which there will be an extension with a prefabricated building so that there are fewer children in the existing building. I insist, if I remember correctly. In fact, I have spoken with the mayor and kindergarten. Now, we in our history, I mean modern Greece, have never given so much money to kindergartens and kindergartens, what we are now giving. This is an objective truth. The nursery will obviously be engaged in primary and nursery schools and obviously in the private sector. Of course, the owners of private nurseries have brought legal action against two-year-old pre-school education. That's what each one of us has to think about. Entrepreneurship cannot run counter to the prospect of young children joining a system which exists in other countries, as you know, in the countries of Western Europe at least is not a single system, there are differences of educational nature. However, what we are doing is one of the very standard things and we must all defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Minister. To continue with the questions that will not be discussed. The fourth question under number 70/16-10-2018, first question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "For the disasters of the cyclone "Zorba" caused in the Peloponnese, it will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Alexandros Haritsis. Cause: Government mission. The third, with number 71/16-10-2018, topical question for the second parliamentary party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Interior, on the subject: "For the catastrophic floods caused in Northern Evia, it will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Alexandros Haritsis. Cause: Government mission. The second question under number 73/16-10-2018, the second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Ireland is entitled to join the universal application of the transport equivalent from the 1st -1-2019", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr.Nectarios Santoriniou, due to unsuccessful commitments. The first question with number 1326/6-9-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incredible analgesia of PPC against its consumers, accompanied by the unbelievable suffering of PPC's shops", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr.Georgeos Stathakis. Cause: Workload. For all the above, there is also a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government. Last for today's meeting, the eighth will be discussed under number 46-9-10-2018, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on: "To implement immediately measures to support students who were housed in the burnt and to build new outbreaks". Mr. Synhronakis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are one month after the fire incident in the old facilities that University of Crete in Heraklion, where the homes are housed with a hundred and twenty students. They do not cover 2% of all students. I'm giving you a size class to see what real housing needs are. It's a matter of luck that we didn't mourn victims, like in the summer with the fires in Matty. I'm really talking to you. And that, of course, is proof that the policy of universities' governments and administrations over time - they are not disproportionately responsibilities - is dangerous to the life and rights of students and workers there. Fortunately, there has been the cool, effective and professional attitude of the employee guardian of the morning shift and of course the self-sacrificing of fire extinguishers for the immediate removal of students from the hall. Minister, despite the promises made by the government and you personally visited Heraklion, students, old and new entrants, all of them a hundred and twenty on the basis of the capacity of the restaurants are still on hold. Just the day before yesterday, some of you received the allowance of the two thousand euros you said. Not everyone. After labor and suffering. However, they remain in two hotels which do not meet minimum requirements. But even the thought of transferring them to another hotel still does not satisfy the needs of students. In this new hotel they're going to stay, says, until Christmas and from 1-1-2019 to another hotel based on INEDIBIM's competition. Is that how their academic year will come out? Of course, we will also be warming up the fact that, at the most critical moment in human drama, the hotel owners showed their inhuman face. In the face of profit, they don't even care about human life. The students, Mr. Minister, are in trouble with their obligations and their lessons. Writings, computers, spaces to read. New year's students are still in the air and many are forced not to start their studies because of the amount of expenses their families can't afford. The enormous responsibilities are burdened, in our view, both the government and the administration of the University of Crete. One throws the ball of responsibilities to the other, while both of you are exposed in front of all students and society. Why? Why didn't you and the oldest governments, which are not unresponsible, have occasional leaderships of the Ministry of Education to house students in suitable, safe and modern buildings. The policy of subsidizing education and marketing it in our view is the uterus of the problem in schools and in the homes, as their students and needs are treated behind your "we are with you, we are trying for you", seeing them as unnecessary costs. Finally, a much more complex problem arises. And let me go a little further, because this is a serious matter. I repeat, we almost had a second Eye in Heraklion. The building of the University that burned, in addition to the students' homes, the workshops of the Natural History Museum and services of the Venizeloi Hospital: staff office, supplies, computer, protocol, techniques, health storage. They were burnt to the ground. Since then, any government actions on where they will be set up, how and when they will be reopened, let me say that they are perpetrated by embarrassment and sloppy solutions. Of course, the question of relocation of the services of the Venizelos Hospital concerns part of the Ministry of Education, not primarily. The Ministry of Health is concerned, not entirely with the Ministry of Education. I think that, in consultation with the Ministry of Health, the issue needs to be resolved, since the buildings that workers claim are the so-called 'white buildings', and not of course take them to the containers. Because that's where they take the employees of the Venizeloi Hospital. We ask you, Minister, what measures will you take, I repeat, since we have entered memorialism, as your Government says? When will everyone get the 2,000 euros allowance? This allowance has become a joke now. And to stop also the confrontations between the Government and the Prefecture of the University of Crete around this issue. Secondly, they should be housed directly at a hotel and all needs should be met - washing machines, offices, other equipment - by the end of the academic year. And all the first-year students in need of an focus to get a hotel room. Focus students have full and free feeding and transportation. Thirdly, there should be a specific timetable for building new outbreaks in the Buddhist region with state funding exclusively. And, of course, the necessary staff should also be recruited, because there are shortcomings. There have already been shortcomings in these areas of the hundred and twenty students. And, of course, to be hired with full wage and pension rights and in line with the needs of their operation. Finally, to solve the problem of housing of both the Natural History Museum and its corresponding funding for its reopening and the services of the Venizelos Hospital, in consultation with the Ministry of Health at all times. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you know that students can eat free of charge. There is free feeding for all the children who live in the homes. You know that. So there's no feeding matter. Secondly, the contract between a hotel and the Ministry was signed today. The students will stay there until April. This hotel was selected in agreement with the students' focal points. However, I am pleased that we share the indignation you have expressed towards the hotel owners. We think that children are a minimum number of rooms available. And they'd show a social sensitivity if each hotel gave from a room. It was not more than a room for a thing of which no one is in doubt about the social offer. You also said that there were only 2,000 euros taken. That's not true. The 2,000 euros were taken by everyone who was at the fireplace on the day of the fire and burned everything they had. There are the first generations that hadn't come down yet. These kids were there because they hadn't finished their probationary period, etc. So the kids - and I think they're ninety-two kids - got the 2,000 euros. But look at what happened now. In a record time, in one and a half days, we managed to incorporate this amount - you know that bureaucracy is not so simple in such matters - in the budget of the University of Crete. The University of Crete could via the Research Committee that has different management rules to give these children the next day, because the fire as you know took place on Sunday morning, on Sunday afternoon I asked for the president of INEDIBIM and I went there on Monday at noon so that I could meet the servants and see the possibilities we had. That could be given immediately, since the state would give this money, it's not that it'd take it back. Anyway, the kids have taken that money, we've found the hotel. The building in which this fountain was housed, in our view, should not have existed for many years. There's a plan to build up both in Rethymnon and Heraklion. Also, there is an additional funding that has poorly been made public by the State Scholarship Foundation to these students by unanimous decision of their board of directors. You raised two more things. First, the labs of the Natural History Museum. They are unique workshops in Greece, not only because of the scientific work they produce but also because of their collections. Fortunately, nothing happened to the collections. To the contrary, it's the white building you said. The university has to decide clearly where these workshops are going. The state can't do anything. We say clearly to decide that they are going to the white building and we are committed to paying as Ministry for the transportation of all the collection equipment, etc., in any new building. We think the white building is a pretty good solution. Indeed, there is also the question, if you wish, of the archaeological material of the Venizeloi Hospital, which we said is that if there are any rooms in the white building that will be housed there and, in any case, we should also find a solution for these services at the Venizeloi Hospital. My sense is that the university agrees to this transfer to the white building - yes, I agree with you - and therefore to force the university to go there, which is an immediate and serious solution, and in remaining areas, to allow these services of the Venizelos Hospital that have been destroyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u49	Minister, first of all for the free feeding for the students you mentioned that it was true, as far as I know, not at weekends. It's a matter that you have to see, that's true for all days. What's he gonna say every day and what's he gonna say for the weekend? I keep the fact that ninety-two students or forty students have received 2,000 euros, because I didn't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u50	Ninety-two students. EUR 184,000 has been entered in the budget exclusively for this purpose. So it's for ninety-two people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u51	I think this should be extended to others, to newcomers, because in the hotels where they are hosted there are no minimum conditions, i.e. they don't have a oven, they don't have a table, they don't have anything to sit down and read. How will they meet their basic academic needs? We also have the question of additional funding from the State Scholarship Foundation. This does not mean, however, that it relieves the government and its previous responsibilities vis-à-vis the university community and especially students. Why do we say that? Because it proved to be the buildings that were inappropriate and were not built for these needs, as the rooms of the restaurant were separated from each other by plasterboards, the walls contained asbestos and underneath them there were laboratories with butane bottles and large quantities of alcohol, with a risk of natural blowing students in the air and even in a densely populated area, next to a school and the Venizelos Hospital. Despite the dean's assurances of inappropriateness of the building, the fire safety was insufficient. The alarm didn't work as the students should have had only one escape exit, as all the rest of the doors were locked. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] It is characteristic that there has never been sufficient funding for student care. These are issues of the government's responsibility and of course of rectorship, which is supervised there on the ground to promote and resolve matters of universities. In addition, no absolute commitment has been made by the government and by deaning for renovation, utilization of university facilities for the benefit of students and employees of the university - and here I am putting another dimension on the subject of fire - with money from the state budget, away from rewarding functions, and for some years the intention of deanry - take note of it - has been known to hand over a significant part of the facilities to a private investor. Hold that. It is important that the government, you, tell us your intentions, should you first know about the intentions of democracy and what you have to say on this matter. In my opinion, the responsibilities are not hidden. The responsibilities cannot be concealed and it is not a matter of intent, because you may have the best intentions, but it is a matter of political choice and the commitments that the government has. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The dean - notice - came to demand from the focus students 60 euros to stay in the rooms in the summer. Shame on you! And ten days ago, if I remember correctly, you yourself in the House declared with a pride that for the first time, after eight years, the budget of universities increased by 45%. Here, however, the needs are many. Not only, therefore, has the temporary housing of old students not yet been solved, because a solution cannot be considered as what you said, housing in what is left and in an abandoned for over three years building,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Synthraki, I would ask you not to have the same time as the protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u53	...without basic infrastructure, not even the future solution you think about, as well as the students are in the air. In the Senate yesterday, which was the mobilization of students, there was a suggestion to start a study on the outbreaks in Buddha, etc. And the dean said they wouldn't be ready in four years. That is why I told you in my protagonist that any controversy between those who bear the basic responsibility for the situation that has been formed is a little disorientative and cannot cover any responsibilities. We therefore consider that it is not just the allowance of EUR 2 000. It may temporarily solve, temporarily, a problem, but a hotel needs to be found that meets the needs for the entire academic year, that is to say, that it is decent to stay, that there are separate offices for reading, internet, laundry services, individual kitchen, ensure free, safe and frequent focal moves for the whole year. Because it depends where this hotel is. Something has been heard about St. Pelagia, which is 20 kilometers out of Heraklion. Who's gonna move them to the university? Also, of course, to begin the construction of the new homes in spaces of the university or HETH in Butas, without contractors and rents, and to cover the actual needs of students and to rebuild directly with a public budget the university's facilities affected by the fire.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Synthraki, you're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u55	What else can I do, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u56	You've tripled your time, not just doubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u57	I'm hanging up with this. Of course, the facilities of the University of Crete should be used for the benefit of the people, workers and students of the University, the Museum of Natural History, the Venizelos Hospital, without consideration and rent, with the sole responsibility for financing and operating by the State itself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u58	Be well, Mr. Synergy. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Synthyaki, the selfishness of universities means the obligations and rights of universities. If anything depends on the state, that is another concept of democracy that we do not have. We therefore say that there are structures which have a relative autonomy in relation to the state. This ensures pluralism, with a part that the central government can agree to, with a non-conscious part etc. It is, however, a conquest that has been conquered mainly since post-Culture, and it is a conquest that all of us must safeguard. The second thing I would like you to think about is the following. You know, I read every day in "RIZOPASTI", and I listen very carefully to colleagues from the Communist Party of Greece, for racing interventions. We know that in societies things are going on, not only because of enlightened governments but also because of the demands of a society. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I am not saying that it is all because of the - if you like - situation that prevails in the way of claims within the university. Unfortunately, like society as a whole, the university, and so do our students, we are going through a transition situation in which the movement does not have the effectiveness it must have in order to be able to solve its own problems immediately. And you know that never something - your party knows better than all of us - has not been spared to anyone if he does not claim it, but in a way that is effective, not in a way of getting a photo out of it, to create a doro, as is said to the Catholic. So I say that many of the problems you have said are of direct relevance to such issues. I understand now that there have been serious problems, for example in terms of the operation of the burned building. These should have been solved. There should be a requirement to solve these problems. I understand there were attempts, they just didn't come to an end. The other thing you said is that the money must also be given to the first-year students. I could not go into this. Something happened here, didn't it? The emergency is about a world that was there, and fortunately we did not have tragic consequences. Our care should focus on this world. He lost everything. The rest of the kids were not even there, because they hadn't come yet, as I told you, they hadn't started the academic year. I therefore believe that it is a respect for the social policy of the government, these children - for which there is no request - to say'obviously our colleagues have been destroyed, everything, we happened to be away'. You're talking about their everyday lives, about the hotels, and it goes on to say. You are right, so I told you that the hotel that was decided is, in agreement with the students, and it is after the notice, etc. I suspect, once everyone has agreed, that it will meet basic needs. I don't want to give the impression that everything was done perfectly. However, what I would like to say to you is that in this very specific case I think the government has at least worked perfectly well in terms of its obligations. On the subject of outbreaks, we agree together that it is a matter of long-term planning. There's money to raise them. What is not there is the mature studies to be carried out by the stakeholders, so that we can move on to long-term planning and, above all, the implementation of the outbreaks, which you know are a very complex issue throughout Europe. We do not just rely on the subject of restaurants. Every year, as you know, we give EUR 42 million for a student and student housing loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-19-S1-commons.u61	With the agreement of the House at 11.35 p.m. the sitting of the next Monday, 22 October 2018, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, Parliament's scrutiny: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) the debate on the No. 3/3/9-10-2018 topical question to the Minister for Digital Communications and Information Policy, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
