ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Continue the debate on the motion of censure against the Government submitted by the Chief of Police Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-fifth Members of the Group of Parliament pursuant to Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. We shall now proceed without delay to the list of speakers. Mr Panagiotis Mitaris has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. The motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy today expresses the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, which says "to finally leave" when they refer to the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL. The SYRIZA - ANEL, who threw the government in 2015, violating the spirit of the Constitution, a few weeks before our country came out of the memorandum. SYRIZA - ANEL, who falsely won the elections, talking about abolishing the memorandum with a law and an article, speaking of unilateral debt write-offs, which led to a catastrophic error in the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum, costing tens of billions of euros to the Greek people. We heard the ESM spokesman yesterday commenting at a conference that in 2014 Greece was ready. He had a recovery in the economy, he had an exit on the markets. They were all reversed in the first half of 2015. And it concludes: "Greece has lost three years of growth and the virtuous circle of the euro area". And the fourth memorandum has already started, with significant reductions in tax-free pensions, with the abolition of VAT on the islands, for which we have tabled several amendments, calling for the system to be extended, which you have clearly ignored. You're talking about supposedly a clean exit from the memorandum. And I say, "Nothing, why?" What does a memorandum contain? It includes objectives, including measures, including a monitoring and funding mechanism. So tell us what's going down in August? Are the objectives abolished? Oh, no. They remain for particularly high and multi-annual surpluses. Is the measures abolished? No, you are cutting pensions, you are increasing taxation for low-paid and low-paid people, you are increasing the ENPI in non-preferential areas. Is the surveillance mechanism abolished? Oh, no. Our country will remain under systematic external surveillance. The only thing that is abolished is the low-priced financing of the country, which has allowed us to pay half the interest today in relation to the start of the programme. In your memorials you added the mortgage of public property and the limitation of the Parliament's legislative right to financial matters through the cutting mechanism. And today we see the absence of new investments and the continuing decline of incomes, events that lead to a constant decline in your expectations for the growth of the Greek economy, this year and the years to come. It's not just the economy for which you're detrimental to the place. It is the security of citizens, the fall of institutions, the migration, where your great weaknesses continue, the trapping of thousands of immigrants on the Aegean islands and the failure to repatriate those who are not entitled to international protection. Ladies and gentlemen, now the Skopje agreement is plunging out the glass, hitting the soul of the Greeks. It is an agreement that cannot be accepted, which does not follow the national line, by acknowledging ethnicity and language, that is to say, the basis of the seamlessness of the neighbours. You, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, accepts the basis of neighbors' altutism. It is particularly important that Article 8, which gives Skopje rights to intervene in our national symbols and names, gives a committee the right to question our own history, to request the change of our own school books. I wonder, our children won't be able to read Penelope Delta's secrets? The agreement will also have a negative impact on the economy, on our trademarks, on the trademarks that have conquered the international markets. What is your answer, the government's answer? We have heard historical reports of Skopje's management over the last seventy years. You're clearly looking for an alibi for your own deal. But you forget diligently that neither Constantine Karamanlis nor Constantine Mitsotakis, nor Antonis Samaras, nor Kostas Karamanlis, nor Dora Bakoyannis, of course, signed an agreement like the one you negotiated, nor does Cyriakos Mitsotakis accept it today. We also hear political references to the New Democracy. Don't worry about it. Our party is united and strong under our Chief and future Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and will always have the national interest as a compass. I heard some reports at risk of splitting. You overlook that this party fought for the unity of the people in the face of squares, extremes and behaviors. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure of the motion of censure concerns the immediate and effective signing of the Greek agreement - FYROM on Sunday, which produces immediate legal results. It is obvious that the strategy of the SYRIZA Government - if you will - should be de facto internationally accepted and applicable to the agreement, without intending to bring it to the present parliamentary term for ratification, namely before the elections, by allowing, on the one hand, a number of co-population Members to make fun of the citizens, saying that, on the other hand, they reject the agreement and will prove it at some point in the future, but on the other hand, they support the government to sign it on Sunday. You can understand that such arguments do not convince anyone. On Saturday, every Member with a guide to his conscience, as required by Article 60 of the Constitution, will have to make a clear choice: Does he accept or reject the agreement? Does it authorize or not authorize the Foreign Minister to surrender Macedonia's name on Sunday? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you to Mr Metarakis and to the consistency of time. Mr Kedicoglou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the motion of censure we are primarily addressing the conscience of the Members of the government coalition. We invite you to consider the consequences, the historical consequences of Mr Tsipras' signature in the agreement with Skopje, an agreement that is a monument of failed negotiation, because Greece gives it all and gets nothing. I am afraid, of course, that it could no longer be the result when those who were negotiating, who said a few years ago that Skopje have the right to be called as they like and that the name does not matter. How can it not be a failure to negotiate, which started suddenly, has evolved in secret with clear micro-participatory purposes of internal consumption and is presented in a cloud of lies? Why are the lies about "Severna Makedonija" said by the Prime Minister. There is nowhere in the agreement. On the contrary, it is very likely that the northern neighbours will call the Greek Macedonia 'Usno Makedonija', in other words, southern Macedonia, with obvious extensions. It is also a lie that the whole process is under the terms of ratification by the Greek Parliament. If Mr Tsipras signs, Macedonia's accession to the European Union and NATO is immediately launched. If the accession process of Skopje begins, it will almost impossible for this to be halted by a next Greek government or by a decision of the Greek Parliament. And diplomatic costs will be huge for the country. The last chance to prevent an unforeseen national defeat is tomorrow's vote. That's where we'll all be judged and make sure we're mixed up with history. We are addressing your conscience, ladies and gentlemen of collusion. Do you realize what's going on? I would ask if you have a national conscience, but I fear that for some of you concepts such as 'national conscience', 'national identity' are rather awkward. Do you, at least, have a historical conscience? Do you realize what the so-called Macedonian nation and language mean? We heard the Prime Minister smuggling because it prevents the robbery of ancient Macedonia. But that was never the problem. With the Macedonian Great Alexander the whole world laughed. And the Skopje statues were Kitch's deposition. But what is happening with the agreement is the transfer of Macedonia's history from the Middle Ages, from Byzantine times to this day. It is no coincidence that Mr Zafe has rushed to state that Cyril and Methodios were Skopje and would be very proud of the agreement. The question of the Greekity of Cyril and Methodios, the question of the Greeks' protagonistic role in the Christianity of Slavs is simply the beginning. But she alone has serious consequences. Really, what about the Macedonian Byzantine dynasty? Was it Greek after all, or are we giving them to the Skopje? And the Byzantine theme of Thessaloniki? Was that a Skopje too? The period of the Middle Ages, the Byzantine period, is very important, because the Slavs' advent in the region was then marked and the nation's controversy for its control, which was culminated in the twentieth century, begins. Watch what's going on with the deal. There will be a Macedonia, the northern inhabited by Macedonians and another, the Greek that will not have a Macedonian nation. It is a very dangerous craving, as a consequence of being recognized as a so-called Macedonian nation and language. And because the agreement is also planned to rewrite history books, be careful not to be accused of ethnic cleansing in Greek Macedonia, do not see Paul Mella as a war criminal. It sounds outrageous, but with such endlessness on the Greek side, we may see that as well. Even at the last moment, we invite you to prevent the tragic recognition of so-called Macedonian nationality and language. We must insist on the truth. Ethnicity is Macedonian, Slavs living in part of the geographical area. And don't listen to fairy tales that Albanians in Skopje don't want it. Albanians in Skopje do not say Macedonians, they say Albanians and they don't care what Skopje Skopje will call themselves. The language is Macedonian. Actually, it's a Bulgarian dialect. It looks as much like the Bulgarian language as the Greeks speaking in Cyprus with the Greeks. It's actually the same language. That is why Bulgaria, with the announcement of the agreement, has quickly reacted. I am enthusiastic in the Slavic languages - I speak very well Russian - and similarities to other Slavic languages, particularly to Bulgarians, are too many. I have first-hand seen the similarity between Bulgarian and Skopje. Normally, Mr. Kotzias should know. As far as I know, he speaks Russian. I can't understand how he's coming out and saying the Macedonian language and ethnicity. Speaking of Mr Kotzias, because I heard he wanted to solve the problem with Albania before he left for a vacation, I would like to ask him not to. We can't afford any more of these hits. Let's go straight on a vacation. In conclusion, I return to the original question, which you must answer, ladies and gentlemen, of coexistence. What conscience do you have? Because the Prime Minister, with his handlings, showed that he has a micro-particular consciousness with clear purposes. He did so to disorientate public opinion from the huge problems of the economy. He did it in the hope of splitting Census, but he didn't achieve anything. Because I saw this scene that welcoming Mr. Reglin to Maximos and I saw Skopje combine with the evolution of the economy, I don't want to think there was a costing of the name. Ladies and gentlemen, would you please answer from now on: Does our history matter? Does the name "Greek" matter to you or are we leveling it all for the chair? We're waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kedicoglou. Mr Nikolaos, Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, apart from Costas Gülekas, who has now entered the House, most of the other colleagues who have been bailing since yesterday afternoon, I have not seen them at any rally. Of course, I remember the first rally that Kyriakos Mitsotakis announced from a Corinthian mountain resort, but after the rally. I would like to say straight away that, as far as the national issue is concerned, the views of the Christian Democrat Party of Greece are clear and solid. We will never accept the complex name for any reason. We will never accept the use of the name "Macedonia" or its origin from Skopje for any reason. Clearly, therefore, I disagree horizontally and vertically with the agreement notified by the Government, and certainly I do not accept that Skopje should be called north or south or beyond or that of Macedonia. I therefore reject the agreement in full. I am very concerned about the possible beginning of a new albuminism that will come out in the future against our country and that this time I fear will be based on acceptance by Greece of the Macedonian nation and Macedonian language. That is why the role in the international community of Skopje is much more intense, aggressive and intervening this time, especially since Skopje, with a Greek seal, will have become a member of NATO. Macedonia - has heard many times - cultural, historically, nationally - is one and only Greek. And any other people or tribe found in it or located in geographical parts of the ancient Macedonian kingdom has nothing to do with Macedonia and the Macedonians. So I do not give this agreement. Just because they celebrate the Washington, Brussels and Berlin agreement, that is to say the architects of the Greek Memorandum, make me worry and fear the worst. In other words, I fear that, after they put the inscription on "the Greek economy is not inclined to lie", they will now also give us the inscription "the Macedonia does not lie". Macedonia, however, is not just a place, a geographical area, it is Greece itself. And let me not come from Macedonia's geographical region, I feel as much Macedonian as the inhabitants of Thessaloniki, Veroia, Edessa, Kastoria and Drama as I feel Cretan, Eptanis, Dodecanese. Because all this, together, is Greece and all this together, we are all Greeks and Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, I note, however, that the political and parliamentary management carried out on this subject, particularly by Mr Mitsotakis, is at least naive, not to say that it can be as suspicious as it is, and finally, making it easier for the government to sign the agreement. A few hours ago - you heard it - the government took a hundred and fifty 'yes' to the prerequisites. Does he really want to hear this 'fifty-four' again, perhaps more? I have said on several occasions that he really has not convinced me if he means what he is saying today, because it is very different from what he said last time and if he really wants to blow the deal out of the air today if he really wants to change the flow of developments. If he really wants it, don't ask Prokopi Pavlopoulos or Panos Kammenos! He has the last institutional weapon in his hands. He was told in the squares, General Frankoulis there at the great rally of Thessaloniki, and we here from the Step of the House to ask for the resignations of the MPs of his party. The reasons for the tens and the voice from here do not need. It's so simple. Can you imagine Mr Mitsotakis and his parliamentary group resigning today? Would anything be signed in the Prespes? No, of course not! But then why doesn't he? And if he did, perhaps other political leaders would do so too, who say that they do not want this agreement to be signed. It's just, you know, things. Personally, I would like to tell you that if this happens, of course I am ready at the same time to give my resignation. But my conviction is that it is the fuse of such an institutional and parliamentary bomb that the Chief of Officerial Response can mainly light up if he really means what he stands for. But I'm afraid he doesn't believe them, and that's why he doesn't mean them. He is only trying to slip out of the difficult position brought by some Members of Parliament through his resignation, but mainly the hundreds of thousands of people who fill up the squares. I'm saying this because I didn't see him at a rally. There is something even more revealing: Mr. Mitsotakis last Saturday sent an official multilateral delegation under the Secretary-General of the New Democracy, Mr. Leuteris Aygeakis, to Gay Price, and never - but never! - he didn't send any rallys to Macedonia, even a degraded delegation. Ladies and gentlemen, immediately after the debate and the vote on the prerequisites, several articles from which Mr Mitsotakis and the Members of Parliament have said yes, showing that their disagreement and their opposition are not structural, nor, in essence, I fear that they are doing so today. There's a procedure that probably reinforces the government. And indeed, I believe that this is what Mr Mitsotakis is looking for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to tell you that these suspicions are too many and reasonable. And to be honest, it's not just mine, but they're spoken out there, in the square, by the world, that's already filling up the Constitution Square. How can I, in my vote, support a government that in a few hours' time will sign an agreement that I consider to be national and patriotic criminal? It can't be done. But, on the other hand, how can I support a motion of censure when I feel that it is only used as a tobacco cover? Obviously, I can't do either one or the other. All I can do is continue to be out there, along with the people, the streets and the squares, where the flags of Greece and the emblems of Macedonia will end up, because in the end the people sign the agreements, but the people are canceling them, not the political intentions and international pressures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u7	Mrs Anna-Michel Asmakopoulou has the floor. Two other speakers will follow, and then Minister Kouduras. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are moments that are really historic and I confess to you that it is a moment for me. In fact, I would say that it is a top of my political path so far, because right now, I feel a very big responsibility. All of us at some point are involved in our responsibilities and our own debt to ourselves, but also towards our country. I mean our personal responsibility and personal debt, not the party. We Members will therefore, in our vote, determine developments today and tomorrow. This also applies to the leading state pillars within their constitutional institutional roles. However, it also applies to all Greeks and Greek women, wherever they are. Today, we are all looking in the mirror and being involved with our responsibility and our conscience, with our history, but mainly with the history of Greece, Greeks and Greeks, colleagues in this Chamber, one - and one - not only institutional, but also personally. So let us prove that we are worthy of this debt. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a motion of censure towards the government and we, which will be voting in favour of it, are not at all sceptical as to whether this government is worthy of the country in this nation. On the contrary, we are absolutely convinced that it is not worth Greece and the Greeks and that, because you are putting the bar down for the country, as you have done for yourself all these years, for your resignation. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have had the cubit for decades at 3%. And your ideas were 3%, your positions were 3%, the arguments were 3%, your political attitude and your behaviour was 3%, and the acceptance of these by the citizens was 3%. It was your lies and the indignation of the people who raised your percentages and brought you to power, never the vindication and reward of your ideology. You never understood that. She remained at 3%. And then, of course, you collaborated with Mr. Kammenos of 3% and so you put the bar low for Greece as well. You tried to build Greece of 3%. It was not "the first time left". It was "the first time the 3% ideology" in power. You brought two memoranda, capital control, you mortgaged the property of Greece for a hundred years, exterminated by mid-class taxes, exterminated healthy entrepreneurship, destroyed public health. You attempted the deportation of the state. You have applied old-fashioned methods of "Mavroyaluro" and closed the eye to the "Ruviks" that perish, threaten and destroy. No surprise, though, because that's what you thought, when you were at 3%, and that's what you're doing now. You then had your own illusions and now you have the bill and the Greek people pay him. It was a failed ideology of 3% that was implemented and eventually failed miserably and overall. You do the same with our national issues. Your 3% ideas have become government policy and national strategy. Isn't that what you've been doing with Skopje for decades? You are proud of "North Macedonia", because in addition, the name "Severna Makedonija" does not exist in the agreement either in English or in Greek. How can you not, however, be pleased and proud when in 2008, Karamanlis fought Bucharest, two hundred SYRIZA officials, together with a written statement, wanted Skopje recognition as Macedonia? That was a 3% view. And you lie today that the government has achieved the so-called 'erga omnes', that is to say, there is a name for use against everyone. There is no 'erga omnes' in the agreement that you want to sign in the Prespes. There isn't. Unless you haven't read it. You're lying about ethnicity and language. The truth is that for the first time, Greece's recognition of the so-called Macedonian nationality and so-called Macedonian language is explicitly agreed. Even a primary boy understands that if something has been agreed, he wouldn't need repetition. You have, however, succeeded in adding a 'n' to the car plates. You're lying about everything that's been before. And you have the nerve to say you're serving the national line. Lies, lies, lies! And be modest when you talk about the attitude of the National Admiral Karamanlis, Evangelos Averov, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Kostas Karamanlis and Antonis Samaras, as well as when you talk about the present attitude of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in and out of Greece. This time-consuming attitude of responsibility has led to today's motion of censure. It is the time-consuming, almost heartfelt attitude of the New Democracy, of the fact that, in the difficult, in the big, national issues, it raises above all national issues, not Greece of 3%. And now, because the fairy tales, the things you used to throw ashes in the eyes of the world, they turned you all boomerang, you are again investing in the rhetoric of national division. The NOVARTIS and the offshore did not work, say, for a far-right displacement in the New Democracy. "Piece of shit" is that too! The Greeks, however, know very well that the New Democracy is the party that unites the Greeks and Greeks at the critical historical moments - and this is the moment - while you 3% ideologists divide. As in the referendum, so is now. When he opposes the use of the term "Macedonia" Mr. Kammenos has his "principals" and "values". But when they express the same desire for Greek women and Greeks throughout the territory, they are marginalists, fascists, extremists and nationalists belonging to a heirly mob or are traders of patriotism. To get to know each other, patriotism dealers are those who trade their patriotism for exchanges, such as debt regulation - and I am not saying that, the citizens say so - or for their chairs. They are not the ones who are protesting about Macedonia and Greece, right-handed. So do not insult and do not cause. One more thing for you colleagues and MPs of the Independent Greeks: The Members of SYRIZA, with 3% of them we knew. But where do you say you disagree with the deal? In fact, did you choose the name "Independent Greeks", which would keep the train on the tracks and have you been the good thing? It is time, then, to prove, by vote and not by words, whether you are Independent Greeks or if you are dependent on your chair. It's time of responsibility and debt. It is a debt to the country, ladies and gentlemen. I, in the attempted national division that you are proposing, in your time-consuming challenge, which says 'they or we', respond very well. I am with those who do not forget the past, who do not forget and who do not want to forget it, those who love our roots and traditions and who want to preserve them, who believe in the esteem, the prophesying, the truth and respect the view of the majority of the Greek people. I'm with those who want to get the cubits back in for Greece, where she deserves it, not 3%, so that the Greeks don't bend the head and go underneath it. I'm with those people who want to see the Greeks again with their head up! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the Corinth Municipal School of Athletics. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this small 3%, together with the support of the Greek people, takes our country out of the memorials, reveals scandals, purifies the place from political and reasonable rhetoric, interoperable, misguided policies, which have taken our homeland back. That's probably what's bothering you. A small 3% with people who had dreams, visions, strong stomach, strength and above all, the support of the Greek people, managed to return a page to this country and, above all, managed to put you in your corner. I am therefore trying, from yesterday, to think and analyse why the New Democracy has tabled a motion of censure to the Government, and indeed at a very important moment for our country, which has completed the last assessment and we are closing the door definitively in the barbaric memorial era. Welcome to the proposal. Besides, we are judged daily by the people for our work, hard work. But for what, do you mistrust? I'd like you to explain. For the thousands of jobs created, for reducing unemployment, for reconstituting and staffing health and education structures, for rationalising expenditure and saving money, which are returning to the people, for increasing exports and investment, for creating basic infrastructures that have not been built for for the last 40 years, why did you want me to be under the table? For the creation of financial tools and a healthy environment in business, for the cutting of hatred, ruses and interlocutory, for the revelation of your scandals, for the release of your executives, who made careers and property on the back of the Greek people, without any interest in his course and future, for the regulation of debt, for the recovery of the economy and the raising of society? What about all this? The second case I can make - micropolitical, of course - is that you are thinking that with the motion of distrust, the ANELs will be pressed down and they will drop the government and you will return to the known chairs and the well-known logic that you have known forty years because your pockets and your funds have been emptying. The third case is the Macedonian. You are putting forward a motion of distrust to stop a framework agreement between the two neighbouring countries and the international community, an agreement which requires the neighbouring country to change Constitution, to change name, to change passports, to change its national structure, history, school books - most importantly - and to redefine it. You are asking for this agreement to be voted on today by Parliament and I ask you: have you lost every trace of intelligence and political thought, even strategically? We must vote in advance and give our approval to an agreement from the Greek Parliament, without the other side complying with the prerequisites that we put in place. In other words, we must approve an agreement and lose the veto negotiating paper if what we are asking for is not implemented on the other side. So you've been negotiating for so many years for the country's interests, really, with so much urgency? The answer is obvious and we have paid her dearly, as a nation and as a country. You are so irresponsible that on a major national issue, which you have caused, you have broken a ton of lies and misled the Greek people. But it suits you to lie, because that's how you've learned to talk. Fear the truth, fear a people informed, fear a people who have all the data open and can judge. It suits you to be watered by lies and nationalistic tribulations to hide your own crimes. Because historically your party has committed crimes in this country, crimes in Thrace, crimes in Macedonia, crimes in Cyprus, crimes in the economy and society, crimes in our history. Remember the bars in Thrace? Known history of your governments. Your policy is the policy of the bar, a bar of exclusion. You want to set up in Macedonia as well. Barrett (PSE). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. But let's go to the point, ladies and gentlemen. Since I began to understand the world, geography, the first narratives of history - I'm younger at age, you see - our neighbouring country was called "Macedonia" and this has been your own only signature: "Macedonia" black. The whole world knows this country as "Macedonia" with your signature. The young and young of my age, who grew up in Skopje and surrounding villages, learn at school that they are descendants of Alexander the Great, with your signature. We grew up, seeing us steal history, culture, our symbols with your signature. We saw that statues of Alexander the Great are standing, that the sun of Berna be used, that our symbols are set everywhere with your signature. They set up their national account and national identity on our history, our culture, with your signature. Really - I want you to answer that - you patriots who have been interested in our country's national interests, where have you been all these years? Where were you, when all this happened, when we were stolen from the story with your own signatures? When did you react? When did you preserve our own history and interests, our culture? When did you claim to be our story, Greek? You guys put your own signatures. Never. You surrendered unconditionally. And we're coming today to get back what you've given us. Why we weren't stolen, you gave it up, you signed it. So now that we are going to defend Greek history, our culture, our language, you refuse to do so. You insist that this country be called the "Macedonia", to set up statues with our own symbols, to maintain the same as a ransom constitution, to chop our Greek history. Because if this agreement is not signed, it will continue to respect the status now being respected, with your signatures, with your tolerance. And explain something to me. Who exactly has sold what? The one he gave? The one he signed? The one who was tolerated? Or are we who claim to take our story back, to preserve Macedonia's Greekity? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are all judged in the face of history and we are all responsible. And yours are devastating for the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are so empty, so empty, so small in my eyes. In view of the national interest, you propose your opportunistic micro-party interest in collecting pins, selling hyperpatriotism. Even the position of your party has changed for your chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Burnedo, ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u12	I look forward to the position of Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Kostas Karamanlis, who from their institutional position have negotiated the issue of Macedonian. Their locations will be of special historical interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u13	He didn't sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u14	Describing their experience, we will learn how with their tolerance or signature our history and homeland has been sold out. Home, a word that you are very often using, but you do not know its content. For you, the country was always a spoil, it was the means to set up careers and property against it. You sell overpatriotism only for votes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. You speak of a country when your party historically has not done either an act of patriotic or one. You never fought for this country. You never defended this country. Your story is accompanied by patriots, partner of the junta, nazis and traitors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u15	Mrs. Gara, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u16	Fortunately, heroic acts have been written by Greeks, in which happiness for us participated heroicly and the Left. History doesn't tell. And whoever knows how to read it knows what Greek country means. For us, the country is not koruna and lame, it is not misery and chairs, it is not a sellout of history, Macedonia, it is not a reinforcement - cooperation with consulates in Thrace, with what this means and you know it well why you did so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u17	Respect the time. Where do you think you are?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u18	For us homeland is the defense of the land that gave birth to us, it is the immunization of history and language, clear relations with our neighbours and the development of cooperation relations. A patriotic act today is living, investing, working at the border, knowing your identity and working with the neighbor, no fear, no hatred. This agreement shields that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u19	Come on, Mrs. Gara, finish it up. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u20	I'll finish in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u21	No, no. There are no thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u22	He's returning as much as you have delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u23	Oh, no. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u24	It strengthens growth and production.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u25	Mrs. Gara, I already gave you a minute. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u26	It places it at a central player in the Balkans in Thessaloniki and overall in Northern Greece. It shields the remote areas which you have neglected for decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u27	You're gonna make me interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u28	One last, Mr President. Two seconds. The House is the home of democracy, it is the place that should give birth to education and culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u29	Mrs. Gara, I'll turn you off your microphone. Mrs Gara, it's unacceptable what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u30	Consider the messages you send to the new generation, fueling the public word with lies, fanaticism and fascist slogans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u31	Do you hear me, Mrs. Gara? It's unacceptable what you're doing. It's at the expense of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u32	Who do you think you are? He can't beat us from the Step!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u33	And you only do that for a few votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u34	Mr Dimitrios - George Karras from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, this is not serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u37	No, no. You don't have the floor. You don't have the floor. Please. No personal references. It's not a personal matter. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u38	He referred insultingly to one party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u39	He wants the floor on personal grounds, Mr President, and you don't give it to him?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u40	Don't shout. I've given Mr. Carras the floor. It's not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u41	He referred personally to all of us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I am entitled to answer. Mr. Carras, with your permission...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u45	Please, Mr. Metarakis. There's a rule. There was no personal reference to you. So you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u46	There was reference to all colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u47	Please be quiet. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u48	It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u49	Mr. President, it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u50	Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I see that tension is born in the Chamber and it will continue with this crucial issue, which concerns us, because it is not just the question of the agreement with Skopje. It is also the criticism against the entire government when a motion of censure is put forward. Before all, I shall attempt a very brief assessment of the agreement, which is to be signed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, between the Greek Government and the government of the neighbouring country. I have to do this because it is an transnational agreement, it is a bilateral agreement between Greece and the government of Skopje, but it reflects consequences for a multilateral organisation such as NATO. We must therefore see what security controls are kept in favour of Greece by this agreement and whether they are secured. I live in the asterisks. Who are the asterisks? We have reservations, we have disagreement on nationality, on the Macedonian language, as it says, on all these points, which, even in the form of a casting, have a counterfactual claim. But let us move on a little bit further. What rights does Greece have if the neighbouring country does not make 100% of the so-called commitments it receives? I therefore read in Article 1: 'This Agreement is final and since its entry into force the Interim Agreement of September 1995'. So it has a final commitment. What should the neighbouring country do? I won't say it in detail. I will say that she will testify to the agreement in her Parliament. After Parliament has ratified it, it will make known that it has ratified an agreement. No change will have occurred until now and the ratification. The second part, if it decides, will hold a referendum. It will launch a process of constitutional amendments and will complete it by the end of 2018. So whatever constitutional or other amendments it makes at the end of 2018, we will be obliged to ratify the agreement immediately and put it into effect. And why am I saying that? For the simple and obvious reason: this agreement, as I said, reflects the consequences of a multilateral organisation such as NATO. So from the moment it is signed by the Greek side and between the Greek and NATO agreements. We do not have the right to retreat, and automatically, we will be subject every day to pressure, possible blackmail, and in any case at the end we will sign, with any changes that have taken place. We will not be able - I am afraid - to check the situations that will arise and classify this as a return-free journey. So from the moment that this agreement is signed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, it is a return-free journey. Can I make another comment, ladies and gentlemen? Who brings this deal? A government which is at least lame in this matter, because the co-pilot, the one who has given the vote of confidence to keep the government in these three years, refuses this agreement. So, is this a government deal? It is a question that arises.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u52	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u53	Leave your comments, Mr. Papadopoulos. I know, you love remarks. So will it be a comprehensive government agreement between the SYRIZA - ANEL, an agreement on one side of the SYRIZA, or is it a unilateral agreement? We are waiting for the result of the vote tomorrow, so that we can see it. I want to say something else, and very soon. For us, this agreement creates a definitive commitment, with its asterisks, to what I have just said. It is therefore still a commitment from the many which the government is constantly undertaking. And I don't want to say much. I just want to mention yesterday's example, because I feel obliged to be time-consuming. Yesterday's example: The so-called bill was passed by parliament. What was the immediate relief of Greek citizens? None. One or two examples I would just like to give, not for the so-called countermeasures, which are uncertain in the future, but which come from the bleeding of the Greek people's income. Is it better, in government view, to take and give? Isn't it better to let the retiree, the microscopic, have it in his pocket and be able to manage it as he wants? This is also the interest of the economy and Greece. Not take it, and then you make a frustration if you can return something to him. These are not solutions. Yesterday, we noted the following: an issue which I brought to Parliament. They will pay interest and those who didn't expect to pay the banks interest. And I'm talking about them with the Kasselis law, to which we had given a privilege since 2010 - the PASOK Government then - to stop arraignment until it is judged whether they are good or bad or whether they are able to meet the obligations or not. So what comes yesterday and says the fourth memorial? You know, once you're rejected, you're considered a malicious payer, and you're invited to pay interest for late five, six, seven years. Otistin, Mr. Mitarakis, you're tracking the financial, 60% charge of the loan. So to the glory of the banks' economy, not the Greek people. Of course, I do not want to mention a second example, because I have to go along with the agreement, which is currently going to be discussed between Greece and Skopje, which, at least in my personal opinion - I do not want to commit anyone other than that - contains excessive commitments. And it certainly contains an assignment of even national sovereignty, when it comes to questioning symbols, history, language, ethnicity. And remind me: What? North-South Macedonia? Let us historically see where these divisions exist, even though the separation appears as a geographical part. It's not. Indeed, this determination is essential, which refers to the continuation of claims. So - and I shall end, Mr President, because I promised to be consistent - from now on: a commitment to national sovereignty is the agreement. And another commitment is yesterday, the surplus fund, with the guarantees of 25 billion, granted by Greece to creditors. To our glory, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u54	The Minister of Tourism, Mr. Koudoura, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our government has been instructed by the Greek people to take the country out of monuments, to ensure conditions of real growth for the economy and the well-being of our people. All this is now under way and is taking a step - a reality, regaining our country's lost credibility. The Civic Opposition, unfortunately, is undermining this national effort, thereby attempting to hide the responsibilities of the past, which are burdening it, because the government is now releasing Greece from the hard commitments they have imposed on them in the past. Especially after yesterday's positive development of the approval of disbursement of a billion by the European Stability Mechanism and the closure of a long period of negotiation, Greece is ready for a successful exit from the Programme in August, finally closing the cycle of austerity and recession. It is understandable that what is at stake is now political survival. With every means and all kinds of tricks, he tries to hide the truth about the success of this government, which is a success of all of us, a success of Greece. It is not a few times that various opposition voices, irresponsible and imprudent, have attempted to deceive even the great tourist leap in the country: despite the most unfavourable conditions, we have managed to increase our tourism, by 25% in the last three years. Tourism is a strong driving force for the Greek economy and has contributed decisively, with the continuous revenue record, to the country's return on development path. It also creates new opportunities for the welfare of every local society and all of Greece. It is the same opposition voices that are constantly trying to undermine every success of this government, consciously abstaining from a framework of creative opposition and substantial political dialogue. Our government, with a strong political will, with a high sense of responsibility and a concrete plan, has achieved over-performance of budgetary objectives and is progressing steadily in the country's budgetary consolidation. It has led the economy to positive growth rates, the highest in the last decade. In 2017 it was closed with an increase of 1.4% and the first quarter of 2018 with a growth of 2.3%, almost twice the Eurozone. It increased employment, with unemployment falling by seven points. All production indicators, economic climate and business confidence indicators improved. Foreign investment and a new historical record were recorded in 2017. Tourism directly and indirectly contributes over 20% of GDP, with some one million jobs, while recent studies, published, show that their overall contribution to the economy is up to 27.5% of GDP, representing 48 billion euros. We have managed to get the country out of the margin of international developments and political isolation. We fully restored Greece's reputation, internationally. We supported the country's geopolitical position and its strategic role as a pillar of stability and cooperation in the wider region. And together with the trust of the international community, we have also gained the confidence of the Greek people. The Greek people know that this government has now accomplished its mission. He responded in the best way to what he had been instructed to do and created all those conditions, which will allow him after August to look at the future with greater optimism. The future of Greece is now being built on new and healthy foundations, which will lead to the overall reconstruction of our country. I would therefore ask you to reject this motion of censure, because it is only a hypocrisy action. The Civic Opposition seeks to hide, avoid being placed responsibly towards the Greek people and seeks to destabilise the country and the development process, to which it has already entered, and we cannot allow this to happen. We support the government, because above all we respect the excessive sacrifices that all Greeks and all Greeks have made in recent years. We honour the confidence of the Greek people. We are implementing our commitments in full. SYRIZA, ANEL and Efologist Greens have an honest cooperation. But we remain firm in our positions and are responsible for fighting for the interests of the Greek people. We continue and work hard to create the opportunities which everyone deserves for growth, progress, prosperity and a better future for the next generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you to the Minister for the time economy. Mr. Geramos Balaouras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, men and women, yesterday afternoon we closed a big chapter, opening the way out of the memoranda. But it seems that the class war continues in another form, as the old communists would say. But I wonder, in this class war, what position will the liberals of the New Democracy have? Liberals, not neoliberals. What position will they take? Because I see an embarrassment, for example, in the newspaper "KATHMERINI", which was supposed to be a pioneer in these issues. I wonder, Mr. Hatzidakis. What position - did you take - your friends, your liberals? What position will they take on these issues?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u58	You're talking about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u59	Sure. So we are trying to close an issue, a big problem, which was poisoning, not only our peoples, but it was poisoning extensive masses of our region and leading at the same time to the loss of our national strategy. Let us imagine the context in which we are in. We are on a Balkan peninsula, which has conducted two global wars so far. It was Europe's silhouette. Yeah, or not? And what do we have on the other side? We have in our eastern borders a state which is extremely aggressive, its Sultan is trying to play games in the wider region, whether they concern the southern part of its state, such as Syria, the Kurds and all of this, whether they concern the Aegean, Cyprus and our islands or the wider Balkans. What have we lost so many years, for thirty years we've been talking about? We have lost contact with the northern part of our region, i.e. the northern Balkans, because we have given some ground to these forces to set foot. Many of you have said so, I guess. I do not remember your colleague from New Democracy who has said that FYROM's army is being trained by the Turkish army. Aren't these things that we need to think about at least and see where they came from? We are not starting, ladies and gentlemen, from scratch. We're starting with data. As in the economy, you have drawn up data, and within that we fought, to better and better things, so in international relations and foreign policy we start with some data. What are these data? Data first: Complex name. Others have said it. It is well known that since 2008 at least - I am not saying for the past - the government of Costa Karamanlis with Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dora Bakoyannis has agreed to a complex name 'erga omnes'. What is the problem, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? We follow the policy of the then government. But you didn't dare. The only one who tried to dare was Constantine Mitsotakis, who took steps, but had a 'currant horse' within the government. That's well known. I'm talking about Antonis Samaras. That's why he stopped where he had to move. That's why he left the ship and left the matter like this. At least, however, Constantine had a daring Mitsotakis. We are rivals, even strong opponents, but it has had the boldness of some things to move on. I remember attributes that on our northern border it was the first politician - then Andreas Papandreou followed - who dissolved and broke the bars in Greece, because the Pomacians and Muslims could not go without a passport, just like the Greeks could not go to the opposite side. These things are well known. Aren't they familiar? Let's go to the next one. Even "Macedonia" was played during Samara's period. Why these things? Many of you have gone to international fora. I have been there many times before, and now I see on the label next to Macedonia. What did you do? Did you get a revolver out? How was the recognition of that state imposed by a hundred and forty-nine countries as Macedonia imposed? By God or by action specific to political power, which was managed at that time? Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a reference to the inadequacy and weakness of our foreign and internal policy. More I want to address the JRC's partners. There are still remains of the Civil War, which had fought for the liberation of the country and with the EAM, but afterward, with the conflict with the Civil War, which are not yet able to come to visit and stay in the country that were born and loved, Greek Macedonia. We therefore need to make moves, as I said about Turkey, and so on. Mr Kumucasakos said yesterday, predicted, prophesied, said so, I don't know, but he said one truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u60	She's wishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u61	Is she happy? He's wishing! He said a truth, a half truth. Who was she? That Mitsotakis fell when he tried to solve the Macedonian. And he said: take care of yourself - addressing the Prime Minister - do not fall too. Last night I couldn't sleep. I was wondering who of us would be Samaras throwing the government we have today, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that the leadership of the New Democracy now by patrons who are, are also ethnocides. See today's and yesterday's international media. The story sends you a great 'good night, Mr. Kyriakos Samaras and Mr. Antony Gruevski'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u62	Mrs Olga Kefalayannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, faithful and committed to authoritarian logic, you negotiated in terms of secret diplomacy to find a solution to the issue of the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Since the end of last November and throughout the critical negotiation process, you have not made any official information from the political parties, no information from the Greek people. This is a historically unprecedented disdain for the political forces of the country, the parliamentary institutions and, of course, the Greek citizens and democracy itself. I repeat, there was no official briefing. Leaks, interviews, non paper, propaganda. These were your tools. This is your understanding of democracy and institutions that serve it. Our perception is that, so crucial political issues must find appropriate solutions at the appropriate time, with the maximum possible consent of the parties, but also of the people, realistic solutions that serve the national interest and strengthen the country's position in the international environment. Greece was and should remain a stability factor across the south-eastern Mediterranean, at the core and at the heart of Europe, without playing the role of the troublemaker, as you did in the six disastrous months of 2015. With this in mind, New Democracy always stands at the height of the circumstances, showing the way of responsibility and patriotism. Even at a cost. Neither of us, nor the Greek people, forget the dramatic summer of 2015 and the attitude of responsibility that we held in August. So, on the issue of the name of Macedonia, we have recognised from the outset the need for an integrated agreement, with mutual retreat, which will, of course, not go beyond the national red lines. We have also decided that the juncture is on condition that it is favourable. The need for a realistic national solution, however, does not mean a national setback, does not mean that we are becoming the subject of the nationalist pursuits of our neighbours. 'Yes', defeat 'no'. And you brought a bad deal, which creates more problems than it solves. And in order to be perfectly understandable, the use of the surname "Macedonian" for ethnic and language cannot be accepted, because not only does it not eliminate, but, on the contrary, it is the quintusy of the perpetuation of the neighbouring country and therefore opens the way for future Balkan instability. We are falling into the trap of nationalism of neighbors, which is formed around ethnicity and language. This is bad nationalism, but bad nationalism, gentlemen of SYRIZA, too. Internationals with selective love for some nationalists don't exist. And these nationalisms, these acrobatics in the Balkans have been paid for by wars, divisions, blood. That's enough! Say things with their real name, Prime Minister. Discontinue your conversation with history and finally speak with honesty to the Greek people. Listen to him. Think of what is at stake and assume your responsibilities. And all this, when your partner, thanks to which you are in power, states that he does not accept any agreement under the name of Macedonia. We're talking about such absurdity. You rule the country with extreme nationalists and talk with a lot of nerve about far right showing our own side. You are working on a major national issue, to politicize the political climate, you are using it to create a problem in Civic Opposition. You didn't make it. You wanted to divide us, but we are here even more united, even stronger and closer to the Greek people. The Greek people you are struggling for, the one you are trying to mold systematically and with a plan. All that, of course, you do with the look on the polls. Polarization is your last lifesaving, before the great defeat, which the Greek people are looking after you, to you and your government partner, who makes his last public lessons of political amoralism. The conclusion is one: you both play dangerous games to prolong your stay in power and continue the impoverishment of Greek households, the shrinking of the middle class, the creation of a new client state. Greece, ladies and gentlemen of the government, does not need your extremes, your split voices, it cannot withstand your amoralistic games. It needs a new national unity, a new national self-confidence, a new patriotism, away from anachronistic nationalism and dangerous populism, with a gaze in the future for a proud, strong and prosperous Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Mr Papadopoulos Nikolaos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Today, probably for some time now, the New Democracy has been trying to target the Independent Greeks, because you make them look like the weak link of the government. And this reproach you make, you do not make it on the substance of the government, you do it for Mr Kammenos. Things need to be simpler for people to understand you. You're confusing it. But people understand you very well. You think it's the weak link. Lately, your bosses are talking about junta and we're going to fall. So, you're making the last effort to throw that government down. From what I understand, and from what I see you will not achieve that either. We'll probably go to other procedures. Secondly, with this agreement you say, I believe that we are almost all getting it, our culture and everything that that brings from behind it. I could say, up to the statues of Vuphala, we'll get them back, too, as it turns out. So you do not have a case for accusing the government and trying to find out to the extent that you are stumbling. What I know is that the people find their pace and cooperate. I will say very few things, in my opinion, because I should also say that as a refugee child I experienced - what they say - my self-determination. I didn't know what I was, what my grandfather was when he came. "Turco" was named "Turkish seed" as they called him. It's a big deal to be able to identify yourself. It is a big assumption that people have a way of understanding. It's their music. When we left Cappadocia, we also took our dances and our customs. If you go to Cappadocia now, the same dances are, the same music is played. So people have the way to coexist and find them. However, what we must say - and we all agree here - is that Macedonia is one, it is Greek. So, why the fight? So, we can't understand the geographical definition? There's also the intelligence that says there's the north, and we'll be the south. So many arguments are you saying, because we cannot understand a geographical definition, which shows that another state has been born and that we have good neighbourly relations with that state? I would like to leave a 1977 map, which is from a school book, which mentioned Macedonia as 'Macedonia'. Exactly, "Macedonia" was called it. So, we took that and set him up. I'll testify to it that they exist. It's 1977. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Will you tell us, as you all say that we do not want that, your position on this matter? What do you want from this deal? To have what? Saying what? Are you going to tell us? Everyone here says what they want and criticize. Will you tell us your position? You want a name? How do you want it? You want what? Will you tell us a complete proposal of yours, to understand what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u66	We'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u67	Your personal name or New Democracy? That makes a difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u68	The New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u69	So far, I haven't heard it. Here we are listening to her, applaud her. Secondly, we should go to other policies, because, when you go into this story, you have other issues. I've heard your Chief and your officers accuse the government of reducing duty. In fact, the tax-free will be reduced. You, when you come to power, will you take it back to EUR 9,600? You're not saying that. Why don't you say it? So you're negative. Refugee and suggest nothing positive. Tell us about HICPIA. You're going to change HISBIA? Why don't you tell us what you're going to do about these things, let us see where our mistake is to be corrected. So you don't have positions. Your only misery is that the government falls, that SYRIZA falls, that's what you're poor - to come to things. I would, however, like to say, since the government is here, ladies and gentlemen, that this agreement still has a great deal to do, it has a great deal to do. The Minister for Rural Development is here, too. There will also be continuations with the trade names, because this is a big issue, which we have to reach agreement on, as regards what will happen with these names in commercial uses. This is a very serious matter, because it is of interest to the rural world. There are products in these countries. He wants a lot of work here, too. So we are the ones who will resolve all the issues. We'll be right here. Slow down! See ya! Hello!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u70	Mr Constantine Barbarousis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u71	We have almost three years of left-wing governance. Not that in the past few years the left did not rule. And in PASOK and in New Democracy the Left ruled. Because, if you don't go through the "great ""Rissospasti" school, you don't make progress in politics. In the last three years, however, we have a genuine left-wing communist government. In three years' time, then, and a few months, you communists have charged the country with 90 billion euros, sold out all public property, put Greece under surveillance for a hundred years, hard taxed the middle-class, which is the power of every state, fill Greece with illegal immigrants and Hellenize them constantly, altering the social fabric of the country, liberating the criminals from prisons, leaving to the declared enemies and vindicators of our territory the right to take the name of Macedonia and the language. And finally, unleash paid parastates to vandalize and threaten anyone who resists. Alexis Tsipras, your days are over! And know one thing, that leaving power, surely things for our homeland will have been so mad. I'm sorry, I was wrong, I'm gonna make a correction: "Not for our country," but "for my country", because you, Alexis, have no home, you are a stateless man. I don't know if you've thought about it, Alexis Tsipras, but you need to know that after the end of your term, which is near, you won't have twenty police cages of you guarding you, unless in the negotiations you've made, and how the secret services of the foreign states will blow you away, who want this newly established state to join NATO for many reasons and various reasons. Alexis Tsipras, you have not respected the will of the Greek nation, which was aggregated throughout Greece and the whole world. And this is the second time that you do not respect the will of the Greek people, because it has preceded a referendum for another reason, of course, but also there you have proved how "democratic" you are. And not only did you not respect, but you fooled and ironed and put your "pads" to say that it was a hundred forty thousand in Athens. And these same "pads" a few days ago came out and said that in the Perephania Parade, as you call it, some seventy-five thousand participated, that is, almost half of those who participated in the rally for Macedonia. That's what you told us. Rise and excruciate on the blood of the Macedonian people, such as Captain Kotta, Mr. Agra, Paul Mella, the stateless Cretan George Skalidis and the Metropolitan German Karavangelis and so many others, who struggled for what you are giving this way today. But you should know, all of you - and when I say all of you, I mean from the paid bunkers and the paid 'pads' up to the top of the political leadership - that after then the nemesis comes. Panagiotis Kammene, you said: “I don’t even work with a party that supports the memos. I will shoot the government if it harms the interests of our country in Thrace. If a memorandum comes, I will leave the government, the Independent Greeks and the politics. I'd drop the government if there was a break with the Church. I will never consent to the use of the term “Macedonia””. Pano Cammene, you're all in it. Your comrades did all the above. But you didn't do anything you said. But even now, at the very last moment, if you've got a little esteemed, you can throw the government away and you can dignify politics. But you, Pano Kammene - and I wish I could be mistaken - instead of riding the Vuphala with your armor and saving Macedonia, you'll come in a whipped skirt once more, with ribbons on the hair, on my little pony.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Barbarousis, please withdraw immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u73	I'm not rescinding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u74	These are the 'dusts' and the 'patriots'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u75	What's wrong with you? "My little pony"?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u76	What you charged the Prime Minister with...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u77	"My little pony"? I have more to say. Wait. In Greece, we have a word that cannot be translated into any other language in the world, the word 'friendly'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Barbarousis, you will be revoked or deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u79	Sadly, however, in here this thing is scarce. I mean, if there was, even a little friendly in this Chamber, no matter how clever you are, no matter how much money they gave you, those things wouldn't do. To boil both the money and the swimming pools and the dough, when I know that because of me an entire people is miserable and suffering. In fact, I feel really bad seeing my homeland shrinking into some little people and I can't save her. Maybe I'm little too. But homeland must be saved in any way. And I say that so everyone can hear it, and especially those who wear the uniform, who sweared faith at home and not in the monthly. I don't know if you've figured it out, but Greece's dividing has started. So, listen, you who swore faith in the homeland how the pope swore the new Macedonians: He put on the Gospel a revolver and a hiasti knife and on the dark depth of St. Demetrius, where a few candlesticks trembled, said to them: Do you swear that he will not tremble your hand and your heart when you hold the pistol and the knife? Do you swear you'll ruthlessly kill whoever you order? That you would rather kill yourself than betray your companions?' So the hands that are spread out to grab our homeland are cut off. As Odysseus Elitius said, "the wrath of the dead must be afraid of statues and rocks." Above all, the paw and the nation! And since the political leadership of the country does not legislate in the interests of the nation, but for its own personal interests, I call upon the country's military leadership to respect its oath, arrest Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, Panos Kammenos and Prokopi Pavlopoulos to prevent this betrayal. Get your heads on the Prespes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u80	Fascist! You're ridiculous.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u81	This is equivalent to a demand for a coup!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u82	Please, sit down. Easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, what are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Voutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, we have to delete and condemn what has been said! That was a call to a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u87	Please. May I? You've all risen and yelled. The President of Parliament has asked for the floor. I am sorry, but you do not allow me, as President-in-Office, to do what I thought, at least to propose to this House, as I said at the time of that speaker, that certain phrases should be deleted. But from there on, because they asked for the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u88	The President of Parliament has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u89	I'm sorry, but do you want to substitute me? Come on, please, here. Come on, Mr. Papadopoulos, here. Mr Voutsis asked for the floor, Mrs Bakoyannis asked for the floor. Well...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u90	Next up. The President of Parliament is the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u91	Let's go again! Mr. Papadopoulos, do you hear or do you want HORL?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u92	I insist that the President of Parliament takes precedence over this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u93	Excuse me very much, but did you understand the order in which I'm going to give the floor? I don't understand why that tension. We need to be cool. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u94	First of all, I congratulate you on the way you chaired. I say this from the heart, because, when the previous speaker arrived at the limits of the patriocope and mentioned the stateless Prime Minister and stateless men, you indulged him in order and then the other unacceptable things Mr Barbarousis said. I think that, in fact, with these reflexes, the Bureau should also raise matters on the ground. But the previous ones are things that have been heard before and have had their limits. The question is that the masks fell in the Greek Parliament today. The political force of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, which, of course, has come here three - four times with the vote of some of our fellow citizens, has rightly called for a military coup against the democratic culture and indeed, with the inspiration of the majority, I understand, of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. I want to be clear and fair, because the moments are critical. Yesterday, the president of the Golden Dawn spoke. He didn't raise these issues. It is obvious that we are faced with an escalation, which is absolutely deliberate, designed, divided and wants to provoke today, tomorrow and Sunday violent incidents and division within the Greek people and wants to cause even few, potential, enthusiasm or persons - which I also question - in the Armed Forces, a turbulence. These are things which cannot be accepted in any way in the context of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, and of course, measures will be taken and recommendations will be made in the Ethics Committee. However, I think and recommend that an extraordinary conference be held on this issue for the absence of these gentlemen and gentlemen further in this House, at least until the end of tomorrow's procedure. From that point on, we'll see. It is an open challenge for a coup after a headline for which the prosecutor has already intervened on the execution of political opponents and after what has been done for two and a half days, given all the mobile phones of all the Members of Parliament, and which disturb us daily supposedly patriots who are patriots and who have in their historical and political curriculum clear responsibilities for the greatest divisions, misery and tragedies of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Electoral School of Nea Alikarnassos Heraklion Crete. We welcome you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] With regard to the specific words of this speaker, which were also addressed to the Prime Minister, but also to the Minister of Defence, I have asked for them to be deleted at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u97	Of course, we denounce and condemn - and that obviously includes the view of the majority of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u98	Everybody, everybody! The overwhelming majority, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u99	These are the last ones, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u100	Let me talk. You will take the floor, if you want, to say your opinion, suggest, etc. I have no objections to that. After all, Mrs Bakoyannis, you asked for the floor and I will give it to you. It's not a matter. So they should be deleted from the Minutes - that was the proposal and I think we all agree - as well as...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u102	...and the last condemned expressions of this speaker, on the basis of what was said by the President of the Parliament. As far as I can see, Mr. Hatzidakis, Mrs. Bakoyannis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, you have put in a series before us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Loverdo, okay, excuse me. Mrs Bakoyannis asked for the floor. We had set a row for Mr. Voutsis, Mrs. Bakoyannis, to talk to you. Good. Mr. Hatzidakis will take the floor and then you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u106	All right, Minister. Mr. Hatzidakis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I have asked for the floor. Don't do what you don't see me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u108	I saw you, I saw you. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, what we have heard before is indeed above rivers. They have never been heard in the Chamber of Parliament of the Greek Parliament, and without any doubt we are all condemning them in the most intense way. Indeed, they are beyond the imagination of what has been heard and I agree with the President of this House that the Rules of Procedure should be applied and the competent institutions of this House convened immediately. We may disagree - and disagree strongly - but we cannot question the democratic city, which is the conquest of the Greek people. [[Applause]] We are, and we will be against the government majority on the Skopje issue. People belonging to New Democracy are going down and going down to the rally to protest against government policy. But the world of New Democracy is Greek democrats who support our democracy and the European perspective of the country. Mr President, on this occasion I should like to address all the wings and Members of all the parties. This morning in this Chamber - I obviously do not vote for it, but I also speak to the Members and to our party - a colleague from SYRIZA spoke in a very contemptuous and abusive manner about our resignation. He talked about Nazis, about junta partners, etc., things also unacceptable. This party, the New Democracy party, was the party that restored the Republic with Constantine Karamanlis Head in 1974. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I therefore recommend restraint to my colleague and all my fellow Members, even to my colleagues - I repeat - of the New Democracy. It will be two - three difficult days in the context of the debate on this motion of censure. We can disagree. We can present our arguments, our different positions. The insults don't match the Greek Parliament. The insults don't match the Greek culture. Let us stand back and try to move forward together through our differences. The country has to stand. And the Republic will stand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr. Gabroglou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I would like to add a reflection and, obviously, the Bureau will decide. At a time when there is such a universal condemnation of this phenomenon, they should not be deleted from the Minutes, because the Minutes are also presumptions of future history. [[Applause]] Nazism must in no way have this privilege of oblivion, even in such matters. I therefore propose that your consideration, with all due respect, be added to the Minutes, because they will be part of the lengthy condemnation of such behaviours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u112	Good. Thank you. Mr. Pappa, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u113	You've forgotten me, Mr. President. I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u114	I'm sorry. All right, let's keep the show. You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, our party, addressing the Greek people, has the honour to be able to state with sufficient authority that it is both nationalism, which has accumulated so badly in the country as well as in ethnicism. We've never organized condolences on FYROM issues, we haven't invited people to go to them. We're holding a stand of responsibility. This does not mean that we have no room for criticism. We've got too much. You've heard them since yesterday, you'll hear them today. However, today, the course of the meeting is interrupted because I do not know what he had in mind, and he has called on the Armed Forces' leadership to commit the felony of the last treason. This must be explicitly and unequivocally condemned by the whole House. And I think your attitude is very right. But I do not agree with the deletion from the Minutes of these phrases. They have to stay in the Minutes. And we must all ask those who have expelled not just insults, but the invitation to commit a felony to withdraw here and now. Otherwise, Mr President, the debate does not end here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Mavrota, after Mr. Poppa, you will also speak. Come on, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u117	First of all, Mr President, I would like to say something following on from what Mr Lovers said. Why, Mr President, do you say'revoke'? Here in this Chamber each Member is a representative of the nation, is responsible for his words and assumes responsibility for his words. I wasn't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u118	They all applauded.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u119	I won't have a dialogue. Let me talk. At least let me do that. And in other doses you have applauded. I didn't hear exactly what happened. However, I conclude things from what the President of the House has said, which operates in an unethical way. Why, Mr. Voutsi? Why do you apply - and the tactics of the Left are known - and, I would say, the left - not to which you may be renounced and do not belong, the Stalinist Left - the rule of collective responsibility? That hurts you. The presence of the voice of Greek nationalists, a voice that is also within the House, but is now outside the House and is shouting "not in the agreement, no compromise for our Macedonia". I am coming to support the hypocritical attitude of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u120	Will you tell us about your congressman?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u121	I told you. And I come to add to Mr. Voutsi who is much older than me and said they have in their CV that I am in '62 born. You may have in your bibliographical dividing issues and so on. But Mr Hatzidakis said that the New Democracy restored democracy in Greece in 1974. Do you know that the 'national authority' - within introductorys - was elected President of the Republic with the votes of the pigs of the national party?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u122	Please, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u123	Do you know that in your ranks was George Rallys, the domicile Prime Minister of occupation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Pappa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u125	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Pappa, for your congressman and for what he said you're going to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u127	Do you know that the New Democracy MPs are election in Athens - and I have a name, if you would like, to say to you - did they dance 'oh, Giorgos Papadopoulos' in order to get a few pins?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u128	Mercy! Until when will we tolerate them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u129	You should turn him off the microphone, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u130	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Pappa! Mr. Mavrosh has the floor. Come on, Mr. Black. Close Mr. Pappa's microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u132	And if anything, at the hanger's house, we're not talking about rope.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u133	Close Mr. Pappa's microphone. Mr. Black, you'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u134	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u135	Please! You don't have the floor, Mr. Pappa. You don't have the floor. You have not said much more, Mr Pappas, as a parliamentary representative if you welcome what has been said by this House by your Member. You didn't say a word! So you accept it and you welcome it. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, we, of course, condemn what was not acceptable to the Member of the Golden Dawn. We, too, feel that they should not be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u137	Be quiet for the Parliamentary Representative of the River to be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u138	Yes, of course. Of course we too condemn what was unacceptably heard by the Member of the Golden Dawn. Perhaps I, too, agree that these should not be deleted from the Minutes, because they should not be deleted from the collective memory, not only of the House, but, in general, of the Greek people, even of the justice. From there on, however, and with the agreement of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, I think that tons of us should fall a bit. For through such situations and by exacerbation of such contradictions, the snake’s egg is incubated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u139	To complete the intervention cycle...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u141	And you, Mr. Xydakis, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u142	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u143	Good. To give the floor to Mr Saridis who had asked for the floor before you and then you will have the floor. Obviously, you are the last parliamentary representative to take the floor and close with you, Mr Xydakis. I would also like to ask the House to continue the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party condemns the words that have been spoken in this Chamber by the Members of the Golden Dawn, the thoughts and, possibly, the deeds that may be motivated by these thoughts. Look, Mr. President. Our democracy, for this democracy that we are living in, which we are managing, has given its blood to the Greek people. We serve this democracy. It may not be the perfect democracy, the one we might have dreamed or wanted, but it is democracy and it is the one we are serving here in this Chamber. In these words, I would like to express my unequivocal condemnation of the thoughts of the Member of the Golden Dawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u145	Good, Mr. Saridis. Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u147	Wait, Mr. Baroness. Mr Xydakis has the floor and then Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, this is not the first time that an incident has been caused by members of the denies of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u149	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u150	We cannot deal only with the formal rules of the people of democracy, the negative and the candidates for condemnation of a criminal organisation. I agree with the maintenance of what is said in the Minutes, that the Conference of Presidents and the Ethics Committee on Benchmarks should be held. But I would like to appeal to all Members too, because since yesterday's sitting some things have started to be heard, with high tones, with threatening times. The serious discussion and historical responsibility we have in this Chamber, when discussing an issue of historical, national importance, does not allow us to ignore the history of arson speeches and divisions, which is sealing in the 20th century. We are in the 21st century facing a historic challenge for eight years to rectify our society and our nation and face major geopolitical challenges in our region, to which we must respond with a sense of responsibility and seriousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u151	Your Minister yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u152	Please. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u153	Don't interrupt, please. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Come on, take it easy! Please calm down. Come on, Mr. Xydakis, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u154	I appeal to the forces of the so-called democratic arch, to those who accept the fundamental rules of democracy and the requirements of the Constitution, to which we have all sworn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Xydakis, your Minister yesterday called Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u156	Please! Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Cryazides, calm down. Go on, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u158	We have all sworn to the same constitution and we know very well that we need our responsibility and our vigilance in all dimensions. With a strong historical perspective and historical responsibility, let us keep a level for today, but also for tomorrow's day. The negligents of democracy and the convicts should not disturb our responsibility and our own debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u159	Good. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. The conviction is self-evident. I would like to use a popular proverb, which is very wise: 'From the oral coral wine you will hear.' In this case, of course, we are also insulting the crows. It is very natural - and this is not the first time - from the Nazi criminal organisation Golden Dawn - that I do not want to open parentheses, which some have forbidden us to say so - that is what no one will hear. It's a given that they support the junta. What's Mr. Pappas talking about? Here is a picture of the tour of Crete with the flag of the junta. Here raw and openly proclaimed - and they always proclaim - that they are fans of the dictatorship. Their political origin is known. Who's talking about home? The German partners, their ancestors? The security battalions? The motto of the Golden Dawn was: "Glory and honor to the Hippies and Tatars". They're coming from. Who's talking? The gangs of Godzamani and the parastate in the post-war regime? Who's talking? The fussies of the junta that oppressed the entire Greek people and had too many privileges? Who's talking about home in the final analysis? Those who documently denounce Cretan resistance against the Germans and greet Maleme's heroes? That's all there is. And the question we want to put, beyond the political conviction, is that it is not possible for the 'independent' - within eight hundred introductory forms - to be delayed for so many years to make a decision on their crimes. Because they're stabbing, being weak, being the head of the spear of the most aggressive parts of capital, is known, despite what they say. And we're still waiting for decisions. And instead, we have convicted MEPs from the JRC, Zarianopoulos, who paid a fine. We have convicted the court that he insulted them because he told them fascists and Nazis and that they stink the place instead of putting them in prison. We have condemned journalists as well from the Marios Ice on the grounds that it offends them because they are called "nazis" and "fascists". That's the situation. That's why they're plucking out. So the condemnation must also be accompanied by specific acts. And one last thing: let them shout. The people have experience. He pissed them off, and he's gonna get them back. And he'll send them to the trash can in history. This is a promise, at least on the part of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u161	I think the interventions have been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u163	Have you asked for the floor? Let's finish with you guys. Mr. Bored, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u164	I would also like the floor, Mr President, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u165	Here you go, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to represent the Independent Greeks in the Chamber. We condemn the content of the aggressive, highly fascist, fascist speech of hatred and their undemocraticity - in introductory - 'collectors' of the Golden Dawn. Please stay in the Minutes, because I am sure that the prosecutor will be seized and we need the minutes. Apart from the Committee on Ethics and the Conference of Presidents, we must be very strict. We're not strict enough. We are a rule of law, but we must be stricter. When we talk about falling heads in the 21st century and destroying democracy, talking to committees to cut one grand a month's salary is the least we can do. And we're ashamed of each other. And we're ashamed of the citizens outside too. It's like mocking lawlessness, nazis and fascists. The punishment must be much heavier. Let's see the code again. Let us see again - and the President-in-Office, Mr Voutsi - what is envisaged to be punished. The conviction doesn't say anything. There must be punishment. It is impunity or due diligence that brings repetitive 'crime', inside and out of import. And it's a crime against democracy. Please, the Minutes will be kept because I'm sure the prosecutor will intervene on his own initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Monsieur Baroness, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u168	I would like to make a comment on what Mr Hatzidakis said about insults against the Members of the New Democracy. I would like to say that from yesterday there are designations, such as 'you are exploring Macedonia' and much worse, Mr Hatzidakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u169	Why? Don't you get rid of her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u170	Why don't you get rid of her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u171	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u172	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u173	You repeat it, don't you? I would say that this is to be avoided until the end of the debate, because a monster is fed up, which threatens to devour those who feed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u174	Good. Let's keep...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute. I'm not going to be arsonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u176	All right, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u177	I think Mr. Bored has misunderstood my intervention earlier. I spoke of the unacceptable position of the representative of the Golden Dawn. I referred to one - without compromising - the position of a colleague in the morning who spoke about Nazis, supposedly associates of the New Democracy, and I said to all the wings, and I mentioned to the New Democracy that we must all show restraint. Where's the mebton, Mr. Barremene? I think I am expressing the whole of the House, and that is what I repeat. That's what I repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u178	All right, Mr Hatzidakis, the explanations have been given and I think that this procedure is closed with regard to interventions on this particular occasion. In conclusion, I would like to say that at the beginning of the event it was said to delete the minutes, it is a common practice. And there is no objection either from me personally, but from all the parties, as expressed in the Chamber, to remain those words in the Minutes. As far as the next steps are concerned, we will see them at the Conference of Presidents in the next few years. Allow me to make a statement before I give the floor to the next speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the "Agia Catherine" School of the British Embassy. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stephen John has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed, just now, an uncovered attack on the people and the Constitution of this country, an attack which must in no way remain unanswered, since we are not in danger of being judged as consortia, but we risk being seen as deceivable. Therefore, not only the responsibilities arising from Parliament's Rules of Procedure must be attributed, but those criminal responsibilities must be attributed to a man who has violently called on the people to act. And it is not unfortunate that all of these days, where organizations, unions and the people of this country are called upon to come to demonstrations which we are not afraid of at all. Besides, the government president, Alexis Tsipras, said the other day in his interview that there are people coming down to these demonstrations with feelings ahead and often the historical ignorance, but there are fascists who want to provoke violent incidents. This has proved in the most obvious way today. Obviously I have completely changed my speech and will be placed at the rest of my time by breasts. Let's go back to history and see what exactly has happened with this famous Macedonia and see how we deliver the name. In 1991 there was a historic agreement, the protagonist of which was Constantine Mitsotakis and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Antonis Samaras. Then we accepted the name FYROM. I will not go into the details of this debate, I will not say whether it was moral defeat or not, because long before 1977, in our country's schools, in our country's teaching rooms were hanged on the maps of Dimitrakopoulos that said we were bordering Macedonia. Of course, I am tabling the relevant maps in the Minutes. Geography of 1977: writes that we are bordering Macedonia. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Stefos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Shortly before, the Encyclopedia 'Papyros Larousse' appears to be which countries are the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in 1963. It is clear and clear that Macedonia also exists at 25,000 square kilometres and 1.5 million people. This painting on this page of encyclopedia was in all the languages of the junta's geography, which had censored what was written and what was not written. No one's ever touched that painting. I'm filing him for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Stefos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And earlier, at "RIZOPASTI" we often read on the headlines how much the Macedonian people were dying by the Greek people. So I mention them to know what we are saying today and how traitors we are and exactly what happened then. Earlier, of course, in 1959, as was said by many colleagues in the last few days, we know what had happened and what we had accepted. So for 1977, we know what we accepted for the language and the Cyril and Macedonian alphabet. Listen, I don't think anyone's a traitor on the subject. I'm telling you, I don't think anyone is. But these last few days I've become wiser. Sager in what? In what Constantine Mitsotakis said in 1991 and I did not understand them or do not understand them politically, as I had to analyse them and stop here. We are therefore accused of bringing an agreement, which has been characterised by all the political world of Europe - and not just Europe - as a very good agreement on the Greek side and many have written about the leadership of the Prime Minister. But here, we find a good chance, again, to start eating our flesh. Do we want to close this? Obviously we do. Do we want bread? Oh, no. Will we be discussing another twenty-five years, as Mr Kumucasos said, and when we decide to resolve it, will we resolve it, or will we now be showing political courage? What exactly does that deal say? What exactly does the state say about our own state, about Greece, about Macedonia, about our own, which in geography we know is the largest, about our Macedonia and that no one will ever be able to question it? He's putting things in the Balkans. I am absolutely certain that you, too, know that this is exactly the way it is. We raised up a people in 1991 with the rallyings in Thessaloniki, so that today we could not put together the unbelievable ones. However, an essential question arises. Why are you currently picking up this high? This is precisely the moment, which burns you in the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, because we are now coming out of the memoranda. It's the end of the story of the memorials, a story you fought with nails and teeth so that it never ends. We're coming out of the memos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u180	Yeah, we're dating.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u181	Mrs. Bakoyannis, this is reality and you know it very well. We come out of the story of the memorials. Mr Samaras believed, naïvely, as he moved all the years of his political career, that in three months the government would fall. You have invested in the division of this government in the conflict with the Independent Greeks. And that's exactly what you're fighting now. Because you know very well that if there are no Independent Greeks, things for you will be easier. You have fought a government, forgetting that it has made it possible for a country to stand on its feet for the past three and a half years. It has been able to enable people who did not have it, to live with dignity through social solidarity benefits, through the introduction of the possibility of these Greek citizens - more than two million - going to the doctor without the hospital service sending them the tax notes. You are the ones who have reached the minimum wage at terrible levels, at EUR 450 and EUR 550 respectively. We succeeded and succeeded, Mr. Chiara, through collective agreements...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u182	Take him to 380 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u183	You're wrong. It has not changed anything at all by collective agreements. And not only that, you will not have the political courage to vote when he comes to Parliament. That's exactly what's true. You don't want to hear it. And what's the main thing? The phenomena of corruption and interlocutory, which with nails and teeth you never want the Greek people to know - so you are constantly trying to tear us down in some way - have been uncovered. Of course, how this story will proceed will be judged by Greek justice. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today we have witnessed a terrible incident, a disgraceful political challenge. So I can say "the fascism deep understand him, he won't die alone, prick him." That is the reality and that is the political responsibility of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Dousina from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, nationalism is like cancer. It starts like a sign, like a stigma on the skin or on the liver and slowly grows, blacks, blacks, blacks and then dies. Man dies with cancer and communities and collectives when nationalism breaks them. Because we have been in this debate today and we have had this problem for thirty years, as we have nationalism upstairs. Those who put the statues of Alexander the Great, Philip, Justinian and told us that they came from ancient Greece, who believed them? Nobody in the world. But there was also our nationalism, which I fear, yesterday, at the level of the stigma, at the level of a small bruise, unfortunately was also expressed by colleagues from the Officership. He said yesterday that the talented Mr Kumoucascus - whom I have travelled on several occasions, and I have heard him repeatedly change his mind within a month and a half - that the language of the neighbours is artificial, is not essential. People are speechless, they are mugs, they have no tongue. Because - it says - the language of these people, who have no language, was artificially recognized in 1977. He told us that diplomats were taking orders from political leaders, from ministers to raise objections if the word "Macedonian" or "Macedonian" is heard. Let me tell you my own experience. For many years I've been at conferences. I've probably been to hundreds of conferences. In 1993, the London Embassy says that when the word "Macedonian" or "Macedonian" is heard, you must object to what Mr Koumucasos said about diplomats. And we said jokers in London and other colleagues that 'we are going to buy a Macedonian radar, a tracer of the word 'Macedonia', and only when the word 'Macedonia' was heard, would we run and say 'you can't say that you are Macedonia? You're FYROM - later - or you're not that thing anyway." Very quickly we understood that not only forty states we have heard them repeatedly, they were called "Macedonia Republic", but the whole world, all universities, newspapers, all the creators of international public opinion. So what did we do? We were playing the ostrich. We were all told that this is not their name and we said: 'No, that's their name, it's different.' And so we have come to the situation we are now. And yesterday, unfortunately, we heard from the talented Mr Kumucaco also a reference to emotion and feeling. And I admit it and respect the world, apart from the fascists, who will come to rally, because always the nation as a fantasy community, as Bennett Anderson says, is something that speaks to your heart and your soul. We also have arguments here, however, and we have a good reason. Let us see, then, two - three of the arguments why the agreement had to be made. Firstly, because the world might not know about it, Greece is far away the most powerful power in the Balkans. Our GDP is more than twice as high in all the Western Balkan countries and is equal to all the Balkans. Therefore, if this problem is solved, Greece and Thessaloniki will become the Balkan shopping center and the passage from Greece and Thessaloniki to the north for communications, for trade, for logistics. That is the first argument. Of course, it combines that there is no threat. Who would threaten you and why threaten you? We will become a leader, but for us there is something else and that is our values. We believe in peace, we believe in friendship, coexistence, and we have been talking about it for thirty years. We didn't change anything, not a single line of what we thought. However, we must also turn to some legal arguments. The only thing we heard yesterday is 'yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, no, no, no, where the ball will sit'. No arguments were heard, the legal arguments. He doesn't have, he says, legalizing the Prime Minister to sign this agreement. Excuse me, legalization according to our political and state system is given by whom? It is given by the Greek people, that is to say the elections. It doesn't have legalization to sign, then? When he loses the declared one, as happened in Spain and falls, then we should go to elections. When you ask Mr. Pavlopoulou to become a Matarella, that is to say, to go against the democratic decision of the Greek people, you go to manoeuvre and state and constitutional, but also deeply democratic. Then Mr Voorides told us, another very talented and axed man, that when Mr Kotzias signs, there will immediately be some legal consequences and some international responsibility. He is a good lawmaker, but he read an article from some secondary law in a newspaper and copied it, just carried it, because the situation is very different. Under contractual international law, but also under the Vienna Convention on Conventions, under the 1969 Treaties, Article 14 and Article 24, an international convention providing for ratification is binding upon the time of its ratification, if it is signed after ratification in Parliament, a ratification protocol and sent to the relevant international organisations. That's the situation. Since the agreement also provides for a number of steps, binding clauses and these clauses have not been implemented, it is clear that this is not the case. This is the legal situation and we have heard again a number of lies about this story. I shall therefore conclude with this. Let me tell you, Mr. Kumucaco, talented, that it is not possible to compare you with Mr. Kotzia. I was close because of my position in the negotiations and I saw Mr Kotzia and his team, the team of lawyers, the team of diplomats who did a terrible job and must be recognized by the Greek Parliament whether you agree or not. I have also seen Mr Tsipras, who, from a Prime Minister and leader, became what we say in English - you understand - a great international leader. Unfortunately - and here I am ending - and I say this with some regret, the decision by the leader of the New Democracy yesterday to adopt the attitude he adopted means a first divorce between an important and historic party - and I agree with what Mr Hatzidakis said - and the European direction and the horizon of the country. You may have put us in Europe, but what do everyone writes today? What did the papers say yesterday? What did the international newspapers and Greeks say? They write that Mr. Mitsotakis returns to old Greece, in old Greece, which Mr. Tsipras finished. It was written here by a different colleague that Mr Mitsotakis should not become a extreme right. I think, therefore, that the conscientious, rationalists, the democratic ones among you - and there are too many, Mr Hatzidakis, and you are one of them too - should put an end to this, because otherwise, for the first time after the civilisation, your party will have officially entered, at least with a small stigma, into this cancer of nationalism, and this must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u186	The Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostleou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with your motion of censure, you have done nothing but to bring your complete discomfort to the forefront, when you see big and critical issues resolved, which you have created and which you have not dared to deal with, by a left-wing government for which you were sure it would be a short parenthesis. It also demonstrates your proposal to the absolute political deadlock in which your Chief, Mr. Mitsotakis, has arrived. He knows both himself and most of you that the agreement with the government of our northern neighbours is an honest agreement, an agreement that is in correspondence and proportionality with the real facts, as it has been in the last twenty-five years. But a commitment as it is in the tough line imposed on him by the extremists of your party, a commitment also to the populist, isotopeic counter-population that he has chosen to do on all issues, no longer hesitates to use a national theme purely for micro-political purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, what other than micro-policy is the constant changes in the New Democracy's position in recent years, depending on where things are going? What else does retreat from the positions that Mr Mitsotakis himself and his resignation had served in the past? Your only firm attitude, colleagues in the New Democracy, has recently been the absolute refusal, not to say the undermining of the national effort. We in the agreement have maintained the red lines of national interest intact, we have succeeded in establishing a name of erga omnes, the change in the constitution of Skopje, the abandonment of saltism, the end of an attempt to counterfeit history. But it must be made clear that the agreement we have reached is the result of negotiation and compromise. We didn't impose our terms. They didn't force us on their terms. There has been respect for the values and dignity and theirs and ours, so that, among other things, the agreement can be accepted by the two peoples and, above all, sustainable in time. In this sense, it is also a victory for diplomacy, understanding and good neighbourliness and it is, at the same time, a defeat of patriocapilia on both sides of the border. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people see and judge the efforts and results of this government, not only in the so-called big issues - with the country, for example, coming out of the cords of the memoranda - but also in the individual policies. Let me say a few words about the area I am serving, the agri-food sector. We have received, ladies and gentlemen, a mess, a management of Community funds, with fines and charges of up to 3 billion and farmers not knowing when they will be paid and how much they will get. Not only did we put order and stopped fines, but we also entered the impairment process through negotiations. Yesterday's example is the acceptance by the committee of our proposal to reduce the allocations of cooperatives. It's a great effort. We have a course ahead of us. I'll see you again. The same happened with the Hatzigakis package. It'll be tomorrow with the rest. That's what we do. We don't hide the problems under the drawers, under the rugs, like you've done for so many years. We have a specific strategic plan for the rural area. We have already tabled this to the institutions, taking into account the initiatives currently being discussed in all the Commission's fora. What are we serving with? Firstly, ensuring adequacy of basic products quality for the inhabitants and visitors of this country. Secondly, we are serving to increase the competitiveness of food at international level through added value. And thirdly, we are serving the productive, social, cultural and cultural relocation of the countryside. And what tools? By making full use of the resources of the Rural Development Programme and the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme 2014-2020, amounting to EUR 6 billion. The majority of development operations have already been launched. Up to now EUR 2.5 billion has been committed, while another EUR 1.5 billion has been committed to ongoing projects, that is, 70% of the public expenditure on the programmes. We have made progress in payments which have reached EUR 2 billion, i.e. 35%. We also serve the space and with interventions in production costs, such as the use of the farmer's bachelor's card and low-interest farmer's card. Have you ever heard of interest rates, especially in the rural area, around 4%? We are serving the area with interventions in the functioning of the market, such as defending the national identity of the products of animal production with compulsory labelling and paying for sensitive and fresh products in sixty days' time. But we are also fighting through alliances that we have entered into with other Member States - for the strict targeting of the use and the optimum use of the Common Agricultural Policy after 2020. That is why we are insisting, firstly, that the common agricultural policy budget should not be reduced and, secondly, that there should not be full external convergence of direct payments. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, we have already managed to avoid it and it was a very serious issue, because if external convergence were to take place in the way it took place in the previous programming period - and you agreed, who were dealing with these matters at the time - you know what we would have had? Loss of around EUR 746 million, while in the negotiation we have made, we have ensured that at least it will be more than twice the average of the European Union and, in fact, we will have a loss of EUR 140 million over a seven-year period when we would lose EUR 750 million. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] We are also seeking to prevent any idea of small-scale cofinancing of direct payments from national funds, because this will open the door to renationalisation. And it is good that there is a commitment from the Commissioner that this will not be the case. You realise that countries with problems will not be able to withstand competition from the allocation of national resources in the rural area. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing my fellow Members of the Com mittee on Culture - that is all we are doing. This government in all areas, unlike what the lyssy propaganda advocates, has measurable results, has effective, carves roads, creates prospects. And you know why? Do you know what the secret is? We are in politics, not because we have waited very long for us to enjoy the privileges of power, not because that is what personal ambition and family tradition have imposed. We are in politics from passion to improve the lives of the citizen and to have a better future for the country. That's our criterion, that's our stimulus. That is why we have the courage to take initiatives and bring solutions, even to issues that are filled with thorns, such as our relations with the neighbouring country. And these initiatives we are sure that history will assess them positively, as will the irresponsible attitude of others. So let them bear in mind that the politician becomes leader of the decisions he makes and of the attitude he holds when the critical time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago in the Greek Parliament there was an unprecedented event, as a party representative called for an open call for a military coup against the legitimately elected government of the country and against the stateless, as he said, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u189	Name and party say!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u190	It's Mr. Barbarousi of the Golden Dawn. These expressions, in addition to all others, of obvious and self-evident, also affect the honour of the country's Armed Forces, which are obviously not affected by such challenges. At the same time, they are a challenge of division, a challenge towards democracy, with the potential to provoke extremist elements to create incidents across the country. I take the responsibility of proposing to the House, by decision of this House, that none of the Members and gentlemen of the Golden Dawn who are registered to speak until the end of this procedure tomorrow night, should have this privilege that this Chamber gives in their presence, because a message must be given by the Greek Parliament to the whole people. It's not a point of order. It is a message of unity, democracy, of real political confrontation on the issues we are concerned with and, at the same time, a message of condemnation of fascism and of the patriots who in this way want to create this atmosphere. I'm clear. This challenge - after the presence of the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, who said that he does not know exactly what was said, but on the substance he has covered this behaviour and has not covered any dimension and concept of collective responsibility outside democratic culture - concerns all members of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn. In this sense, I suggest that a decision be taken by the plenary on depriving the right to debate. I do not want to hear again - and I speak personally from the heart, because after a few speakers it is for other representatives to speak - this challenge, which is clearly planned, systematic, divisive and has something to do with what is going to happen today, tomorrow, tomorrow, in this place. We have to put an end to this, and we have to take responsibility for it all. Thank you. [[Applause]] I would ask, if there is no objection, that it be written in the Minutes that the House and the current democratic arch forces agree with this proposal by the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary-General of the JRC, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, despite the fact that we have already raised the specific issue you have just mentioned and decided, I would like to make a comment. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] It is not enough to condemn or simply condemn the stance of Nazi Goldenmen, whenever they make an extreme fascist propaganda in or out of this House, or simply take the measures based on the procedure and operation of their Parliament for a day or two when we talk about murderers, about a criminal Nazi organisation, which is under trial. This in itself tells all about its leadership, both of its Members and of the individual paid veins that it uses as its members to murder our innocent fellow citizens. [[Applause]] That is why the Greek people must take the case in their hands, the people's movement as well and finally break them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people will give their reproach to any government and to any government to which they are bleeding either by the harsh measures such as those adopted yesterday by the government majority of SYRIZA - ANELs, or by placing him in the warships of Naples, the European Union, leading the country and the region to destabilisation, insecurity, in the interests of the vast majority of the hard-working Greek people. Today's motion for distrust by Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy, in our view, is butter on the bread of Mr Tsipras, Mr Kammenos, SYRIZA and ANEL. It contributes not to the people's real information, but to their disorientation from the real and essential problem of the upcoming Tsipras-Zev agreement. We are not missed by the fact that the New Democracy is mainly aimed at turning Kammenos, the ANELs, looking at this about 3% of the former Neo-Democratic voters of the ANELs. And on his part, of course, SYRIZA, taking advantage of this whole New Democracy, aims mainly at turning the Change Movement, Ms. Gennimatas, Mr. Theodorakis and deepening the gap of their enthusiasm, seeking an approach to widen the already slim governmental majority, which, as the Prime Minister has already said, is due to end in August. This, of course, is the case at the end of the memorials on which it has been built, as you have also confessed, as many SYRIZA Members are calling it - cooperation with SYRIZA - ANEL. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are systematically cultivating disorientation, the overhaul of the problems that arise for our people yesterday in the resolution of the new anti-grassroots measures which will come into force with the supposed end of the memorial tombs in August, because you are on the same line as the 'yes, man', in the face of NATO, the European Union, BSE, the domestic and foreign pluralism. That's why you're looking for all your subdivisions, whatever your differentiations, your asterisks in secondary, trio, in impressive, cheap and occasional moves. Let us talk more about the object that caused the motion of censure, the Agreement between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Your political courage has no limit, Mr. Tsipras. I imagine you're seeing the meeting because you're not in the Chamber. Of course, this place has met too many "bads" and others who appear as if they had eaten Lenin and Marx with the spoon, by Hitler's disguised orphans, who put Lenin in their mouths the other day, like the other ones, until refreshers, reviewers of evil calamity. I will not say the well-known people's wise saying "misleading is worse than learning", because it really takes for all this and a lot of courage, to invoke Lenin, who spoke of the self-determination of people from imperialist centers and lit the way out of the socialist revolution. And say this to a TV interview when you sign an agreement to imprison another people in NATO's war lupus, uh, it takes courage to confuse each people's self-determination from the oppression of every foreigner, but also from the domestic bourgeoisie, with the Atlantic toys that trigger the so-called self-determination of minorities, to implement NATO's well-known policy divides and reigns in the Balkans. You may shortly unravel us some new approach to Thrace as well, where some centres are working on self-determination plans. We expect all of you now! That's why we say you're politically dangerous. You open the way that will turn Greece into a great military target in the event of a generalised imperialist war. You are turning Greece into a great military premier of NATO, from Alexandroupolis to Souda, into a hub for implementing all the Atlantic economic plans that concern the Balkans, and you even call it a courageously this dangerous policy for our people as a so-called peace and stability policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Agreement between the Greek Governments and FYROM has been reached by the unambiguous intervention of the United States of America, NATO and the European Union. It has their seal and has been signed on the basis of the deadlines and timetables set by these agencies to proceed with Euro-Alantic integration in the Western Balkans. SYRIZA - ANEL Government has evolved into the best signifier of NATO and European Union planning in the region for the sake of parts of Greek capital, which, of course, claim greater shares, greater profits than the robbery and exploitation of the people. It is the other side of anti-popular politics that breaks our people's income and rights. The SYRIZA Government is being called upon to play its leading role in the Balkans, which of course seeks to be entrusted to it by the American and European imperialists in the Balkans, so that we can be more precise in our words. For this reason, the whole process has focused on the name of the neighbouring country, while a number of crucial issues, such as addressing the alutism, with the necessary changes to the constitution of the neighbouring country, are not only referred to in the future, but the situation is complicated by the acceptance by the Greek Government of the unscrupulous positions on Macedonian nation, Macedonian language, which are basic supports of pervertism. Therefore, it is an agreement that cannot secure a solution for the benefit of the Greek people and the people of the neighbouring country, all the peoples of the region. Government claims that this agreement will allegedly ensure peace, cooperation, stability and the Balkans and the wider region are beyond false, misleading and unscrupulous. This agreement is only a letter of recommendation from Mr Tsipras to Zaev, for him to use it both within his own country and at the European Union and NATO sessions next June and July to receive the invitation to join these twilights. In fact, Mr Tsipras gives the green light to the intensity of destabilisation, insecurity, conflicts in the Balkan region. It is a criminal fact that you are consciously ignoring and disclosing that NATO, the European Union are factors of insecurity, of changing borders, of subjugation of nationalism and of mutilation. In particular, the peoples of the Balkans have come to know the policy of imperialists in their minds. You can assure that the course of Greece, Turkey, Albania, Montenegro, Bulgaria and Romania in NATO and the expansion of European Union planning coexist with border disputes, violations of sovereign rights, stirring even non-existent minority issues to the detriment of the peoples of the region. You also avoid that the wider region is in the eye of the competition ring, which is why the interventions, the movement of powerful military forces, the establishment of new military bases and so on. The integration of the Western Balkan countries into NATO and the European Union is part of these overall plans, in the context of their competition with other powerful states, such as Russia and China. In the Balkans, Imperialist forces compete with each other about who will sell his equipment, who will secure military support with relevant bases and developed military cooperation, who will do the biggest business in the region. That is why the United States of America and NATO are strengthening their bases both in Bulgaria and Romania and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, in Albania, in Kosovo and of course in Greece. Their plans are hierarchy by prioritising the integration of the Western Balkan countries into NATO's imperialist alliance. That is why we insist that the guarantee for a real solution is that FYROM should not join NATO, because NATO membership is a factor of insecurity, further destabilisation of complications and problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece since 1992, when it raised the issue of the name of the neighbouring state following the dissolution and the division of the former Yugoslavia, has been placed on this issue by positions of principle, with a view to promoting friendship, cooperation, solidarity among the peoples, against the plans of the imperialists and changing borders in the region. He supported his positions on the undeniable fact that Macedonia is a broad geographical area and after the end of the Second Balkan War and the signing of the Treaty of Bucharest in 1913 Greece received 51.57%, Serbia in 38.32% and Bulgaria 10.11%. It is a large geographical region that does not belong exclusively to Greece, but has been shared between Balkan countries. In this wider region of Macedonia they spoke Greek, Albanian, Slavic dialect, Hebrew, Armenian, Turkish and others, and nothing can substantiate that within this mosaic there was or is there a uniquely shaped single Macedonian language. The same applies to the position on Macedonian nation. This position does not really fit in because, among other things, it does not meet the criteria that stress that the nation as a historically shaped historical community of people has appeared on the basis of the community of language, territory, economic life, the psychiatry manifested in the community of culture. The dominant nation in FYROM was formed after World War II, on the basis of these terms, but with the entity created within the framework of the single Yugoslavia, and there is a lot of evidence that, until a period of designation, the Slavic origin was used. That's why we're telling you that an agreement is getting you serious, no matter how much you present yourself to celebrate today. It is not the first time, so you always do, until the Greek people are bleeding again or until we see in practice what is going to happen. With the green light you have given Zaf to join NATO and the European Union, you are taking serious responsibility. You will be accountable to the present and future working class of Greece, the Greek people and the struggle to free themselves from these twilight alliances, in order to live truly peaceful, with friendship and cooperation with neighbouring peoples, with prosperity and development. At the same time, we have pointed out to you at the very first moment, and it was confirmed by the study of the agreement which he officially shared with us yesterday, that it has the sperm of insecticism. Not for the name in which all of you are completely wrongly focused, leading to constant compromises, to the rest. The name may have a geographical definition of erga omnes, but this is largely overthrown by accepting and safeguarding the concepts of nationality of Macedonian citizen and Macedonian language. And, indeed, having been identified, as you say, strictly geographically, the name 'North Macedonia', what is the reason why this country's national should not be named in this way and in its official documents, i.e. as a citizen of the State of Northern Macedonia and its language as the language of the State of Northern Macedonia? Why don't you do the self-evident thing, as you say, after having accepted it and Skopje - at another point, but in another article in the agreement - that their language is slavic or, they say, falls under the category of southern Slavic languages? Why, then, is it not specified in the agreement as Macedonians, for example? Why don't you name their language as a Slav-Macedonian? Some of these formalities would not be left alive and the sperm of alutism would be used by anyone in the future. And that's what you don't understand. Because your compromise, as you say, has not only been made to facilitate Zafe today with his counter-population within him, but also to tell them there is a bit of openness and tomorrow, since he will have guaranteed his membership of NATO, of the European Union, of organisations which, like all of our great experiences, are aware of, that when a problem arises bilaterally, that is to say, not to observe the agreement, as may be the case tomorrow, they are washing their hands as Pontius Pilates. Many years have not been doing this with Turkey and its unacceptable claims to the Aegean Sea and its non-compliance with it? So who are you selling these to? Because, ladies and gentlemen, the political and other connections are also changing here in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the whole of the Balkans and around the world. They don't stay unaltered. And unfortunately, many times change to the worst for the interests of the Greek people, the other peoples in the region, and not for the best, as is desirable. So the JRC will not give you a letter of recommendation and a green light to the dangerous designs of NATO and European Union imperialists, that is to say, the well-known and unexplained butchers of the peoples. We leave this whole work to you. The Americans take advantage of your willingness and your "yes man" to serve only their own pursuits and goals, especially when they saw Tsipras and Kammenos as enthusiastically enthusiastic with the designation given by the American Ambassador as geostrategic hinges of the Balkans. Unfortunately, for the Greek people, you do not seem to understand what pain and misery is hidden for the peoples of the Balkans behind these words. And what can you understand, of course? I guess you're fascinated by the high chair of power. All you have left is to rise like turkeys of pride, because you think you play a leading role in the Balkans too. I'm scared of you! Mr Tsipras, I am not saying anything new since after a decade you have been in the SYRIZA presidency and about four years in a few months' time in the government's presidency, it is well known both within Greece and abroad that you have become synonymous with opportunism, political turbulence. But you have now exceeded that limit. If someone records what you have said about a number of issues, what you have said to me in our meetings - but leave that, I say the public - they'll freak out. Especially if she sees how easy and relatively innocent shepherd she is lying. Let me remind you that you were sworn that Macedonia's accession to NATO and the European Union has nothing to do with the name agreement as a basic condition. You assured all tons that the invitation to join NATO and the European Union is irrelevant and independent of the agreement and will only be a choice of the neighbouring country later. And you share with us an agreement that in the first article has the name "North Macedonia", the rest to which I have already referred about Macedonian ethnicity, language, etc., and immediately to the next article, it states that once you sign it, you should immediately send a letter to NATO and the European Union to put in the neighbouring country. And you are now also the ones affected because we are telling you that you have actually done this agreement only to get Skopje into NATO and the European Union, to get June and July. And that's why you're cut off to the Prespes bread to sign them with Zafe tomorrow. But for all this, you, as well as other parties, and Civic Opposition, as well as those controlled by you, those who are controlled, and by the various embassies, civil journalism in our country. And that's not all you got, because you don't have Alzheimer's. Amnesia too, I don't believe it. Your statements show that the JRC has forgotten what the JRC said from 1992 until now, with stability and consistency as always. And the tubers you have to write in "AGEI" and in various other brochures are forgetting it. Let me remind you again briefly once again, because I have already said so to inspire them. Any agreement far from NATO and the European Union divided it and reigned the imperialists. Complex name, with strict geographical identification, against all, eradicating alphabetically from the neighbouring country's constitution, not accepting unspeakable concepts of Macedonian nation or language, etc. And all this, of course, is unified and a package. Why did we not see and see as you all did, coalition, New Democracy, PASOK, ever since, relations with our neighboring country as a baptism. So we didn't see ourselves as a godfather, as a best man. Only you guys seem to know how to play them. That is why Mr Mitsotakis' criticism of you stays in the air. He doesn't convince the Greek people. Because this story has a bad past and a question mark. That is why the confusion in which it is found and expressed by the Change Movement today with its components, from Potami and others. You see, it's been this cologne for years, because you might be different parties between you two, but you have a common strategic cruising. Because the strategic program of all of you is one: NATO and dry bread, European Union and dry bread, management of the system of capitalism, capital profitability, group competitiveness, restructuring and reforms that intensify the exploitation of human beings. And that is why, because you serve this god of money, Mammon and his system, you raise tons of corruption by sharing the business interests each politically represents or wants to represent. Both "NOVARTIS" and "SIEMENS" and the scandals of one another have the role only of disorientation of the people from the harsh reality. The more we go for parliamentary elections, probably September this year, the more that will strengthen. Indeed, it sounds like they played a role, especially for "NOVARTIS", "lisveris" with Americans and others to achieve this agreement. We say this in order to record and, of course, it remains politically to see how it will be expressed, unless the SYRIZA MPs who are moving something like this right and left, even claiming that they have Maximos as their source. For all of this, therefore, the people must turn their backs on you, tell you a great "suffer!" That's why we in the House today tell you that you are playing the game of well-known bipartisanism, bipolarism, with meaningless cockfighting, carving about the substance of the problems. You've just voted for a new plan. You have just sworn that now the memorials will be put on you after you have naturally agreed with your partners, as if so many years you didn't vote for them all together, all the things that bound our people with hundreds of anti-popular laws and measures. We have these days been held with speeches by all of our Members, strictly but with arguments. We have not so far heard any serious correspondence or argument of the prerogative. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will not give any more legitimacy to this process, both to you in the SYRIZA – ANEL and to you in the Opposition Officer, the New Democracy. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will no longer take part in this paradigm of parliamentary procedure, in this theatre, a true neo-Greek tragedy, a two-day tragedy for our people. We are now leaving the process. In any case, the distrust of the Greek people, both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, will be given by the people themselves with their struggles, with their struggle, with the definitive overthrow of all the anti-grassroots, economic policies and the various imperialist agreements that want to knee him down with the pistol on the forehead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, thirteen members of the Pan-Hellenic Union for Psychosocial Rehabilitation and Professional Reintegration. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Venizelos, I would like to ask you not to give you the floor right now. I would ask Mr Loverdos to speak immediately after you, then two other colleagues will then speak and I will ask him if he wants to be placed later or later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u194	Later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u195	Later, okay. It's easy for us, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Venizelo, thank you very much. I'm making a request for the maintenance of the years. Mr Katsafandos has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me, as a member of the National Representation, also stand in the unacceptable incident with the Golden Dawn MP and in the most unequivocal way to condemn his views and actions. I would, however, like to remind my fellow Member, Mr Dousina, who is not now in the Chamber, that all this scientific, medical, analysis of nationalism and Naziism and what all this can bring to a society and to a country, perhaps he should do so earlier with his companions and his colleagues SYRIZA, because the reality, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is that with this Golden Dawn format in the same square you were, the same slogans you were saying, this Parliament wanted to burn. This is the raw reality. But allow me now, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the motion of censure. We have so far become accustomed to the irresponsible policy of this government on the issues of economy, your ideas and your obsessions. We've had other things to say to you to vote. We said - and we say - that economic crimes can be corrected through a structured plan and through hard work. A national amputation, though? You, unfortunately, decided without any command something that no Greek government dared to do, give the name "Macedonia" to the Skopje, presenting identity and language. It's a deal Mr. Tsipras didn't want to bring to the House and he wanted to sign it in secret. That is why the New Democracy has tabled the motion of censure and not as you say, ladies and gentlemen, to break the record of exiting the memorials and to save all this Scandal, which you are bringing or some inner-party conflicts in the New Democracy. We testified for Macedonia and the Macedonians. For Greece and our history we testified it. To find out what is behind this agreement, which will be signed behind its back on Sunday. Finally fall the masks. Each one in this Chamber must assume his responsibilities. You, the democrats. You, the progressives. You, who set up referendums in the squares and neighborhoods. You who, in the summer of the '15s, had a referendum in time to bring us to the price of one, two memos. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much it hurts you. And now, on a major national issue you do not dare ask for the opinion of the people. And worse, you blame those who participate in the demonstrations, expressing their patriotism, stigmatizing them as nationalists. He said my dear colleague, Mr Dousinas, in his speech - and I am glad that SYRIZA has been here for thirty years - has been firmly faithful to what he believed in the Skopje issue. Yes, it's true, Mr. Dozena. You did a little retreat, of course. Thirty years Skopje you called it "Macedonia". Now you put the North in front of it. But for thirty years you have been talking about Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian language. But you are also making another big mistake, Mr Colleague, and that is probably the mistake the Left is making. You blame patriotism and you identify him with nationalism. You cannot accuse those who speak of their homeland and those who want to show their love to her of being nationalists. Mr. Tsipras was invited Constantine Karamanlis, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Kostas Karamanlis. But the latter in Bucharest, ladies and gentlemen, has refused, despite the enormous pressures he has accepted, to conclude and accept what he accepts today. Kostas Karamanlis had sought to form a national line, informing the Heads of the Parties. However, Mr Tsipras chose the practice of secret diplomacy, without national agreement, without a national negotiating line. You are talking about erga omnes, when, for at least five years from now, the documents and the public administration material used for abroad will continue to have the name "Macedonia". And internally, any changes will be made first in relation to the progress of the accession negotiations in the European Union and NATO. I mean, no time limit. Recognition of Macedonian ethnicity can be matched by SYRIZA's ethnic-denominated concepts of 3%, but also by the unequivocal recognition of Macedonian language, unfortunately, it leaves the liquor of alutism wide open. Article 13 obliges us to move out of the sea to Skopje with what this implies, with the argument that this is a closed state. In the preamble to the agreement in Article 36 there is reference to the special rights of those who have fought for the ideas of the special identity of the Macedonian people. Article 56 speaks of protecting the historical and cultural heritage of the Macedonian people. In the agreement - listen, listen - a group is set up to check the history books of the two countries on albumin issues. Is that what you accept, ladies and gentlemen? Because that's what Mr. Tsipras has agreed with Mr. Zaev. Do you not realize that the recognition of Macedonian nationality and language is the core of Skopje's alutism? Is that what the Greek Prime Minister will sign on Sunday? And since we're talking about corrosion symbols, with the flag of Skopje, what about it? What about the Skopje national anthem? Have you put these on? Does the Prime Minister not know that the flag of Skopje is the symbol of the sun in Vergina? Has he bothered anyone in the negotiation, or have you forgotten, and have you not even put it? And of course, here we have your government partner, who, in order not to make another cubism, has set out all his hopes that the Skopje will not vote for the agreement. This is the responsible foreign policy implemented by ANLE. This is the patriotism of the Independent Greeks, throwing the ball to others and hoping that others will save you. Except this attitude does not characterize patriots, but the smugglers of history. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of New Democracy's reproach is not a party, it is a national one. It expresses the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens within the country and wherever they are located. You leave the Skopje with this agreement - telling us emphatically that they have recognized it forty countries - to be called 'Macedonians'. Because first the Skopje know very well that without our green light, without our recognition, they would never be Macedonians. They're Slavs, they're Bulgarians, they're Albanians, they're everything else you want, but they're not Macedonians. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. We are therefore deciding, ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday if we will be worthy of our history. It is worthy of our duty to it, but also to the future generations. For some, I understand that this vote is the time of the chair. For others, however, it is time for responsibility. So one thing is certain, ladies and gentlemen. That on Saturday we will all judge the fate of our country with our vote. Nobody will be able to hide behind their responsibilities. And there is also something else that certainly has something to do with the New Democracy. Whatever you may try to open up, we'll be there to close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u198	Why are you asking for a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Katasafantus, who is from...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u200	Wait a minute. Why...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u201	He referred to me personally and made a complete deformation of what I said. To be practically correct...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u202	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u203	For a minute, Mr President, thank you. To tell my dear Mr Katsafado that what I said is that the Left has always remained faithful to certain values and I named them. It is the value of friendship, peace, good neighbourliness and international law. For thirty years we have been in these values. I didn't say anything else. As for the issue of ethnicity, which I said about ethnicity, I was sorry, but we should be able to understand that the word 'nationality', in the sense of ethnic integration and citizenship, which in English and French is called 'nationalite' - and perhaps not understand - has a great difference. Nationality is the citizen's relationship with the state. Ethnicity is what I believe in myself, in my conscience in Latin languages called ethnicité. No international treaty, no international law has ever tried to change ethnicity, nor can it change it. I have talked about citizenship, and that is what is in the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u205	Mr Katzafadou, that is not how the other colleagues will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, if each Member should respond, you can understand that we are entering another logic at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u207	Yes, we're entering his logic that some people towards the end of the list won't talk. That's the only reason we're getting in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, please, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u209	Here, you have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u210	First of all, I am pleased that Mr Doussinas - because he has not reversed my argument - admitted that he has identified patriotism with nationalism and that is the problem I have said. The first is that. Second one. No one has denied, Mr. Dousina, that SYRIZA was speaking of Macedonian language and Macedonian nation. That's the reality, Mr. Doussina. You made a retreat. The retreat that you guys made...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u211	First of all, Mr Katsafandos, you must address the Bureau. You are not addressing my colleague. Mrs Tasia Christododoulou then Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. We claim that this signing of this agreement is a historic event of great historical importance. The questions that need to be answered by all of us are why this agreement was made possible today. Why, for thirty years, couldn't this deal be made? What were the factors that prevented its signature and who are today the factors that accelerated this agreement, for which we all consider, at least by SYRIZA, that it is not an agreement that is embarrassing or anything else. I would like to remind you that in the 1990s that the most serious attempt to resolve this issue occurred in the world. Existing socialism collapsed and everyone sought a refuge through nationalism to set up a state. That's what our neighbouring country did. What, then, did our neighbouring country do exactly? He sought those materials that would allow its own social formation to exist in an imaginary institution that there is a nation state and a nation. So she took over to borrow the story from her neighbors. This has not only happened in this particular region, it has occurred in dozens of parts of the world. Was it possible, then, to resolve this issue, when nationalism was a sovereign ideology of the neighbouring country, when it was trying to form a national state? Was it possible to retreat? Was it possible to sign a deal? What about Greece, however much it claimed, and no matter how much it wanted, was it possible to achieve it? I would like, therefore, finally to say that today this agreement was made possible because three separate events, three unscrupulous factors, occurred at the same time in history. The first was that in Greece Tsipras and in the neighboring country Zaev was Prime Minister. The second factor was that the neighbouring country was tired of political and economic isolation and needed to open wings. At the same time, nationalism was politically defeated in that country. And the third is that the SYRIZA government, a government that had as a remarkable pretext social emancipation, people's friendship and the right to self-determination, was in the government. These three unscrupulous factors have shaped what we call 'historical time' to resolve this issue after so many years. What does historical time mean? It means that, first of all, historical time is shaped by political subjects who act and not by those who react. Secondly, historical time means being able to exploit, understand and propose within a specific historical context a political proposal that has a future. So this time SYRIZA took advantage of it. Why don't the rest of us want him? Why do they consider that a political force that exploits this historic time must be subjected to the test of distrust and reproach? So does not a political force perceive what is happening around it, which perceives the political and social phenomena to act, but must seek permission? And who did he ask for permission from? I would therefore like to say at this point that nationalism, apart from what everyone thinks it is, has some common features, such as dedication to tradition, history, yesterday, hatred in the future and any progress. These elements are that define the political policies of the parties that disagree with this agreement. And to support what I'm saying is that because these political forces consider history to be unchanged, that history is an eternal continuum, they were the same ones who could not reconcile with the idea that SYRIZA won in 2015, because they thought they would be eternal, unchangeable, that Greece would be as it once was and will continue to be. They couldn't understand why the social forces in this country have instructed SYRIZA to resolve and manage the issues of the crisis and they still can't understand it, because they don't care about it, but they're dealing with how this past will be consolidated forever in the future. But the laws of history can't be any more. And whoever goes against the laws of history can only collect defeat. Today, then, what we need to say once again is that SYRIZA dared. And at the moment there is a reproach against him because he had the political courage to resolve this issue, to understand it and to lay the foundations for a future peaceful in the region. What was the other proposal? We should stay the same. What's he doing? In other words, we must be like we have been for so many years, the state of national sanctuaries, the state of anti-communism, the state of donors, which has existed in Greece for so many years. This must not be disturbed, because it keeps the social forces in a political delay so that the respective authority can be reproduced. So now what do we think? That through this proposal the ANLLs will be forced to drop the government, where is everyone's dream? That's not gonna happen. We understand that the theory of the'chairs', which is constantly reproduced by everyone - and I have heard the representative of the JRC reproducing it - is a theory because he wants to take these'chairs' to make revansism and regression. Fortunately, however, the social forces understand that because the three years that we have been in the government, which we have the chair, we have not become a chair. Some others are chairmen who were in power for fifty and a hundred years. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] So let us see that and let us see that the governments do not fall. Governments are not falling because we are trying to make use of political gaps, which, in our opinion, are recently discovered through the pressure on ANELs to try and solve the issue, to get rid of SYRIZA. SYRIZA came because society wanted it and will remain, too, if society wants it. Everything else is too much. Of course, those who think that they are working in their time and can take advantage of opportunities are the real leaders. It is no coincidence that even the German, hostile newspaper to SYRIZA came out yesterday, titled "The Tsipras leader, Kyriakos Mitsotakis represents the failed Greece". It's all about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u213	Madam President, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u214	I'll be back in a minute. And I say that for the JRC, which says that we have made progress on this agreement because it has forced us to force NATO and the European Union, while it was just said: 'Oh, you always wanted this.' If we always wanted to, who pushed us? So we always wanted to resolve the issue. But there was no historical time, because historical time was sometimes slow and afflicted, and he was sometimes concentrated and producing political developments. The point is to understand when he's slow and when he's concentrated to be able to make politics, and that's what you can't forgive SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u215	Mrs. Christodoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u216	I'm done and I'm sorry. I am not saying that those who disagree with the agreement are nationalists, because there are other purposes to strike the government. They cannot be tolerated because SYRIZA has taken voters from all political parties. That's why they're all united, from JRC to Golden Dawn. That's the difference. They can't be reconciled. They took off the comforting theory of left parentheses. It's not coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u217	Your Honor, please, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, there is history, which exists and goes on, and in that sense you must separate its position from listeners of darkness, fascist, racist, who coexist in this policy, which has once again fuelled nationalism in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u219	Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure presented by the Civic Opposition has a clear and simple meaning to cancel the communication fraud on which the SYRIZA - ANEL consortium is based. The ANELs disagree with the name agreement, but they support with passion the government and the Prime Minister who negotiated it, agreed it and signed it, binding the country immediately and in advance long before the agreement came to the House for ratification. Because the agreement will come to Parliament for ratification months later - if it comes back, in other contexts, without any improvements being possible. This paradox, which is addressed to the wider audience of the conservative party, is obviously annulled by the positive vote of the ANELs to the government, namely the Prime Minister, who, by means of this positive vote, will sign the agreement. The point I would like to make in the motion for distrust, which we of course are voting for as a party, but I too am very much in favour of it. It is the answer to what is happening in the country for the last three years. It is the answer to compost, to bourgeoisie, to cancel the concept of words, to cancel all political principles and value through a left-wing amalgamation. It is the answer to the systematic dismantling and alteration of institutions, democracy and the rule of law. It's the answer to the manipulation of justice. The motion of distrust, as I understand it and vote on it, is an answer to Mr. Tsipras' inconceivable political courage, which appears at the same time with amazing comfort as a fellow, great brother of Mr. Kammenos, as the protector of memory and Konstantinos Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou, as an honorer and regulator at the same time of internal situations, correlations and relations in the New Democracy and the Movement of Change. My vote in the motion of censure is an answer to the attempt to form a virtual reality, according to which the Prime Minister celebrates that he is making - allegedly - the country from the memorials, while he has brought it humiliated, to the limit of incomplete bankruptcy and to the third memorial, that is to say, a secondary economic crisis that lasts three years, which has devastated the country, the consequences of which will unfortunately last for decades, without being able to return now, with the supposed end of the memorandum, where the country was in December 2014, to its dynamics. And I will not go into what was adopted yesterday, in the new budgetary measures, in heavy commitments, not only until 2022, but until 2060. And, of course, the point I make in the motion of censure relates to the conflict of two perceptions of foreign policy. One conception is foreign policy in the name of national interest, seeking a single and stable national line and broader consensus. The other conception is in the name of supposedly consensuals, which, instead of really seeking them, are bisecting tactics, the use of foreign policy as a lever for internal policy, as a way of preparing a crusade climate along the way to the elections. For all this is linked to the delayed ratification that the government wants to create in the run-up to the elections, a climate which cannot rely on the economy, but will be based on the blackmail of the institutions, alteration of the process of reforming the Constitution and the corruption of foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a firm position which I have repeatedly formulated. It is the single national position since April 1993: yes, a compromise is needed with the neighbouring country, yes, the solution is a complex name with geographical identification, yes, it must be used erga omnes and internal and international, yes, it must be founded on an international agreement, on the basis of which the constitution of the neighbouring country, as the interim agreement of 1995, on which the constitution of the neighbouring country has been revised at several points. I have said that twice as Foreign Minister at the UN General Assembly. However, I am saying that I was not a mere Minister for Foreign Affairs and Vice-President of the Government, but I was also a government partner. I knew very well what the country's single and time-consuming position is and I did not need Mr Samaras' approval, as Prime Minister, in order to formulate my position as a government partner, Foreign Minister and representative of the country from the Step of the United Nations General Assembly. However, we have always said that an integral element of a solution that is functional, sustainable and secure for regional security and stability is the cancellation of any insulation in the sense of the ideological use of history. The problem with this agreement focuses mainly on three points: the fact that citizenship, while being a legal link between the citizen and the State, is identified as Macedonian, Macedonian/citizen of the Republic of North Macedonia. The Albanian citizen will have the nationality of Macedonian or simply the nationality of the citizen of Northern Macedonia, as is accurate. The other refers to an ethnic concept and recognition. The current constitution of the neighbouring country in Article 4 thus defines citizenship as descriptively, as a citizen of that country, not as Macedonian. We are giving them something that does not allow for their current constitution. The language is Macedonian - Slavic with Cyril. Yes, but the Prime Minister comes and says in his proclamation of the agreement: "The Greek-Central language heritage is not affected by the language of the neighbours". Is that what we call the "Greek"? If we come to say "Greek", then, if anything, the other language is Macedonian and, of course, it has not been recognized in 1977. The third crucial point is the problematic synchronisation of actions, particularly in relation to NATO membership. Because the neighbouring country is invited by NATO to join and the North Atlantic Council decides to join now, before the entry into force of the agreement. The accession protocol is concluded and begins to be ratified by the twenty-nine NATO member states. Greece has recently waited for the procedures to be completed. But when Greece comes to ratify this convention and also the NATO accession protocol, it will be too late. That's the point. The point is that the improvements must be made now. After the signature, unfortunately, there is no room for improvements. When, after months in this House, perhaps in another relation, this agreement comes into force for ratification, if the neighbours have done everything they have to do - the referendum with a positive outcome, the revision of the Constitution, respect for sensitivities - there will be no room for the Greek Parliament to ask for improvements to the text of the agreement, which, in many respects, acts before the formal entry into force. That is why I said: Read with your advisers very carefully what the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties says. So, there is another accuracy, justice and honesty in dealing with foreign policy and national sensitivity issues, what we do, what we have paid extremely expensive, costing. And another is to take a policy of'momentum' that is indeed positive for solving the problem and use it with a glance on the inside to create problems for the opposition, clashes and frontal forgery and not to build a real national consensus. I demand that, in the final analysis, as a Greek patriot, I ask the government to make sure that the text is improved at those points which are open to misuse in the future and which can become the sources of problems, because regardless of the legal debate, the signature, if it happens, commits and captures the country into a felony and then we will not have room to intervene to ensure good neighbourliness, peace, regional stability, security, progress, development and all values, in whose name, of course, we are also fighting as political forces and as individuals, but also as a nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u221	The process will proceed as follows: I will give the floor for two, three minutes to the Minister of National Defence, who wants to make a statement as a political leader of the Army about what was unacceptable from the Golden Dawn a moment ago. Then the two colleagues, Mr Michus and Mrs Megalo-Economics, will follow. The Parliamentary spokesman for the River will be followed by Mr Varvitsiotis and Mr Cremastinos. Since there is no other Minister - and I do not think there will be at the time - we will proceed with the list as a rule with colleagues. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago, during which the President of the Hellenic Republic gave the swords to the new HRs at the School of Hopes, serious offenses were carried out in Ethiopia and also to the Army. As the political leader of the Ministry of National Defence - and in this capacity alone - I would like to remind you that the military leadership of the Armed Forces was called upon in this Chamber to arrest the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Defence. Mr Barbarousis, applauded by the Members of the Golden Dawn, committed a serious criminal offence, which I will explain later, but also a serious attack on the Armed Forces. The Greek Armed Forces, the officers, the officers, the soldiers and the national guards are sworn to the Constitution, protect the country's city, are occupied by the principles of democracy. They're protecting democracy. No one can be called upon to trespass the Constitution, to trespass on the principle of the constitution and to take action of this kind. I would like to assure the Greek people that the Greek Armed Forces are absolutely democratic and respect the entire House of Greeks, the parties, the Parliamentary Republic and no one general, leader, officer, officer, soldier or national guard will in any way respond to such calls. Such calls and such actions led to the loss of national territory and the Hellenic Armed Forces know that very well. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during Mr Barbarousi's speech, where he was applauded by the members of the Golden Dawn, there was a violation of the Criminal Code, the first chapter entitled 'Extents of the Citizenship' and, in particular, Article 134 relating to last betrayal and Article 135 relating to the preparation of last betrayal. Mr President, I would like to begin by asking for justice as directly criminal prosecution for this crime against MP Barbarousi and against the Golden Dawn Party. As I also ask you, all of us and the House in the Greek Parliament, to approve the immediate lifting of parliamentary immunity so that justice can apply the laws. We can't play with the country's city. We can't play with the country's Armed Forces. There are controversies of policies, but in the context of the implementation of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, justice will exercise the criminal prosecution on its own initiative. We also refer to the request made by the Ministry of National Defence in plenary. And from there on I will ask the Bureau to take immediate action or at least to withdraw it from the Golden Dawn or from others who have committed this crime. Any shadow on the Armed Forces cannot be left. And the military leadership of the Armed Forces cannot be called upon to arrest the first citizen of the country, the Prime Minister, Ministers and to destroy the city. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u223	The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u224	Thank you. Some time ago the House unanimously decided not to give the floor until the end of this procedure to any member of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. If, on its own initiative or following the indictment of the Minister or the competent authorities through the judicial procedure, the waiver of immunity and any further action is sought, the House, as laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, will of course be placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u225	We're moving on like we said. Mr. Nikolaos Michos, Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Your government's strategy is very good. You started a few days ago with gay pride to leave the world's mind, with a multi-branded plan, with strikes yesterday by trade unions, which was not heard by any body or word, of course, on the subject of our Macedonia and much more. I have listened very carefully to many of the speakers. I shall refer to a part of Mr Doussina's speech, which said today that everyone who goes to the rally is fascist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u227	Did I say that thing? That's exactly the opposite of what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Dousina, good, what should we do? That's how he interprets it. You have stated what you mean. It's been recorded. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u229	Many people have said so in your party. If you said otherwise, I apologize. You said it when I went in. But that has been said by too many of your party, as by other factions...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Micho, to make it easier for you when Mr. Dousinas gave the explanation you were not in the Chamber. I think this has been resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u231	You have condemned too much. I have heard many krone before being said here, but no one can condemn an ideology from mistakes from others. As you say about Ruvikon who makes the duo in the House, the Ministry of National Defence or Constantine who was outside when MARFIN was burned - who were one of those who gave orders - you keep a different attitude and some of you say that they are activists, so none of you can blame nationalism as ideology by mistakes and mistakes of some. For the record, I won't talk about it. There's been a lot of noise. For Mr. Benaroulia, we all know his role. We know who he was. We know his place. For Mr Boutaris, nothing has been heard. The St. Demetrius Street wants to be renamed to Kemal Ataturk Street. A lot of people have been mentioned in history, so it is pointless to say about Paul Mella - my positions have been said too many times - and for Macedonia too. I have heard Mr Kumucako saying that the agreement is implementing the Ilinden-alutances of Skopje and Macedonia. I do not want to blame you, the Members of the New Democracy. It is not at all at all today, if your party and in the past has taken a stand on Macedonia, contrary to what you are saying today, such as what Kostantinos Mitsotakis said in the 1990s that he does not accept the Greek minority that is in The Watchtower, when Gligorov told him, and he did not accept it either. He had even said the phrase then that in ten years he would have been forgotten. Nothing's forgotten, it's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u232	Do you understand what Mitsotakis said?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u233	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u234	You're communicating?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u235	I communicate very well. I haven't said that. Your father had said it. And these have been written in history, Mrs Bakoyannis. And I say it again, when Gligorov told him that there are seventy thousand Greeks himself, he said: "I do not accept that there is a minority". Admit that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u236	I don't think you were either in the front or anyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u237	You made a motion of censure. Let me talk, I haven't interrupted anybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u238	Don't make name references.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u239	What can I do, Mr. President? He interprets Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u240	Since Mrs Bakoyannis speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u241	Mr Mijo, first of all when you speak to the Bureau a little lower. So to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u242	I'm sorry. Okay, but you, too, should...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u243	I'm too low-speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u244	Yeah, but you shouldn't tell me, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u245	It's just that Mrs. Bakoyannis didn't ring. And recognize her a sensitivity because you referred to her father.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u246	You made a motion of censure. You think the government will go ahead. You know he's got the majority. Because you, the current patriots of the New Democracy, have said too much, but you have given the right to what you have been told - with your previous Governments - and Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister and other SYRIZA Members, to tell the truth about what has been done and not with your own government, but with others. So why don't you ask the government for a referendum? Why are you not prepared to say that if this bill goes ahead, if this position of the government for Macedonia goes ahead, will you and those of us against this bill, and if we are going to get out of here? And to give a message to Europeans and all over NATO, which is being guided - the worst for our country - that once there are some who are united in this Greek Parliament and are not in their interests. But we know your position. Everything has been done in the past and with your signature, rather, not with yours, with people who were in your party. We've delivered history, language, symbols. And now it comes slowly, too, because it will come and that will start with the issue of Macedonia. Then he will go further, and he will go to Thrace, where the Turkish nationalists of the "Greek Wolves" make their play. We're going to Epirus with the Chemistes, etc. There is an article in the agreement that says that Skopje, taking into account the fact that it is the second Contracting Party, is a closed state. The Contracting Parties shall be guided by relevant provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. So you're going down to the Thermaikos? Is that the Law of the Sea? Why is Germany, ladies and gentlemen, burning to resolve the Skopje under a final name, as they themselves want, 'Macedonia of the Aegean'? Does the Danube, Adequate and Morava connection serve any interests, the interests of Germany, the interests of NATO, the interests of America? I guess something like that. It is a very old plan, many know it in here and a project that Ioannis Metaxas had rejected, because he knew the disaster that would come to our homeland. Skopje will gain access to the Thermaikos. He's in front of us. It's gonna be an independent state. And all this because? Why and wealth are there in northern Greece - in Macedonia, in Thrace - and to make their game some, as I said before. Can anyone tell me, not just to me, to the world, to the people who are outside, who will have gatherings and protests, who is this Mr. Nimitz who has entered the mediator? Who put him? How does he know about our story? You're accepting it. We've been brought by an unwilling man to make the ombudsman for the good. Good news, we know. We know our story. Because Philip and the Great Alexander were speaking Greek. They didn't speak Slavic. And one question: Mr Venizelos said before this. The Skopje Albanians - why is it a tune - what language will they speak? What ethnicity would they have? Will they accept Macedonian ethnicity? The only people called Macedonians there are the Greeks who have always lived and lived in this area, who are seventy thousand. No one else has the right to take that condition. No democracy has the right to sell, to sell with our history, with our borders, with our language and our symbols. However, it seems that we will move forward and go on to an independent Macedonia along the road and a separate Macedonia, a separate state - I say it again - that will reach the Aegean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Dousina, excuse me. You've given your explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u249	But, Mr President, he said something that is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u250	It can't be. But that can't be. I'm sorry. It can't be that whenever a reference is made to your name, you can ask for the floor on your own behalf!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u251	He said something that's wrong. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u252	All right, what do we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u253	I want the floor for thirty seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u254	Here, for thirty seconds. This is the last time, President-in-Office of the Council, I give you the floor for personal reasons. It can't be done every time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u255	Excuse me, it's a serious inaccuracy compared to what I said. I said I respect the world outside, except fascists. And I respect them - I said it and it is in the Minutes - because the relationship between man and nation is an emotional relationship and I cannot condemn it. In this context we are having a debate on the right of speech and arguments. That's what I said. It was exactly the opposite of what the gentleman said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u256	Good. We're moving on to Mrs. Big housekeeper. And then Mr Mavrotas will be prepared, who will not engage in dialogue with Mr Dousina. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President of the Officer's Representation because today, when I got up at five o'clock this morning, I went up to my libraries. And it reminded me of my school years. That was very nice. It has triggered us because I found several encyclopedias by tabling the motion of censure. So I saw an encyclopedia saying: 'Macedonia is called one of the republics of the Yugoslav Federation'. She's been here since 1969. I brought them in to present Mr. Mitsotakis, because he made me feel like a student. Let's go down to another volume. It says here... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Excuse me, will you let me talk? When you want me to present them to you. They're of historical value. It says: 'Yugoslavia or South-Slavia: State of Eastern Europe, consisting of six federal people's democracies'. The People's Republic of Yugoslavia consists of six states. Federal democracies mean them. It does not say 'local names'. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Let me talk. I'll tell you what encyclopedia says here and sue the publisher. I don't know if he's quitting. When I was in high school, that's what we read. It says about republics in Serbia, Bosnia, Herzegovina, Croatia and writes both populations and extent. Well, I read them: "Serbia, which includes the autonomous regions of Vojvodina, Kosovo, Metochia, on a total area of 88,361 square meters and a population of 7,642,000 and a capital of Belgrade. Croatia has both an area of both Bosnia and a population of both Sarajevo and Macedonia with an area of 25,713 square kilometres and a population of 1,406.003". These were reported in 1961. With the suggestion of distrust, however, by Mr Mitsotakis, you have given a stimulus, a step on the Golden Dawn, to bring dissent. That is what you have done, ladies and gentlemen. You gave an opening to the Golden Dawn to say what he wanted. You, when you propose distrust to the government, what are you doing? You question the government, so you put the Golden Dawn, the snake's egg, to pull the snake out of the hole for you. You have made the motion of censure. So since you made the motion of censure, you wanted to divide the Greek people. That's all you wanted. I do not want to say too many words, because it does not take time, and I would like to say this: let us remember what happened on various dates. From the previous governments of the New Democracy, on the one hand, of Constantine Karamanlis, on 23 October 1959, a text was published in the Leaf of the Government - and, indeed, it is written artistically, it is not printed - which recognizes the various regions of Yugoslavia, including the People's Republic of Macedonia. It says in Article 7 here: "Requests for legal aid shall be submitted through the respective Ministries of Justice, at the request of direct correspondence between Yugoslavia, the Ministers for Justice of the People's Republics of Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro." Why, gentlemen, in 1959, did you not resist and say why it says here "Macedonia"? We're talking about 1959. Why didn't you say 'no, will your name be Skopje'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u258	Because we weren't born.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u259	Whoever was born!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u260	Mrs McMillan-Scott, you are addressing the House through the Bureau and not by dialogue with colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u261	Then again, on October 23, 1959, I have the Ministerial Council with Constantine Karamanlis and Kanellopoulou, Averof - Tositsa, Kollia, Papaconstantinou, Dertilis, March, Gika, Adamopoulos, Strato, Dimitrato, Tsatsos, Kalanzis, Kefaloyannis, Thanopoulou, Psarrea, signing for this. I submit these documents in the Minutes and you can read them in comfort. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, those of you who said it was an area and it wasn't a democracy, it wasn't a state, and that's what I've been proving to you that since 1959 they were recognizable republics of the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u262	Did you say that to Mr. Leventis when you were at his party?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Hatzidakis, please! You're all here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u264	The President of the Centroon Association has also made an institution "Centre Leaders", but did not say that the old Republic's old man, Papandreou, did not admit them. We go further: In 1977-1977- again on a government of New Democracy and Constantine Karamanlis - at the third United Nations conference on the standardization of geographical names is recorded Macedonian, Cyrillic alphabet. In fact, Averov, the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, in the Minutes of Parliament on 17-9-1959, says on page 17 and 19, "the Macedonian language is spoken in Skopje and has the grammar and the editorial". It is in the Minutes of the House of 17 September 1959, on pages 17 to 19. In fact, then, the Prime Minister, the late Karamanlis, did not cry when the United Nations recognized the language. He just remembered to tear out 1992 at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, when they asked him: 'What about Macedonia?' Then she cried, not in 1977, but in 1992. So, we now reach Bucharest in 2008 on government Kostas Karamanlis. The whole negotiation took place on the basis of the term "Macedonia" and by geographical determination. This is what you have done, gentlemen of the New Democracy, in your government, for fifty years. These were your diplomatic successes, to record the issue of Skopje and not to manage the issue. You let the problem be timed, swollen and never want to be solved. So since it was recognised by a hundred and fifty states, you are now turning around and saying why you, SYRIZA, recognize Macedonia. But you already recognized her, ladies and gentlemen. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, succeeded after all decades of your bad diplomacy and an internationally shaped climate against Greece because of your choices, the governments of New Democracy. This is the irony, that you want the whole universe back. But the universe isn't turning around, ladies and gentlemen. Whatever happened, it's done. Accept it. When you announced the rally, your president said no one would go. But when you saw that Golden Dawn and the Central Association went, did you say why did we lose votes? We'll go too. All together! That's your patriotism. You handed over the floor to Mr. Tsipras. You created it all. You let Mr. Tsipra take the snake out of the hole, but he does it. And I'm telling you it's gonna work, and you're gonna lose the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor. Then Mr. Varvitsiotis, Mr. Kremastinos, Mr. Dimitriadis and Mr. Kefaliannis. Here you go, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. On the basis of the Skopje agreement, the New Democracy has put forward a motion of censure against the government. So I'm gonna split my speech into two places. The first cause, namely the government and the second one, is the drop which, as the text of the motion of censure says, is over and over for the agreement. In the past, when we passed a bill that was not passed by co-pilots ANEL, some accused us of supporting the government. Remember the bills for card identification, assumption etc. In fact, topical journalists and columns were mocking us, because we obviously broke the line. We have all said that we do not support the government, but we support the citizens concerned, the society, the rights attached to the provisions. In other words, we supported our principles or rather based on our principles, to vote without heterosy. You support the government - our language had haired to say this - only if in institutional processes such as the motion of censure, the vote of confidence, you vote in favour of it. And today we will show that we do not. I'll start with the most general ones. With Potami we have come to a frontal conflict with SYRIZA on issues such as education, economy, public administration, institutions and procedures and much more, not in the number. Often, especially in voting matters, we may have been his main opponents. Let's start with one of them with education. In education, the government acts itself, pretending to be consulted. In fact, he considers dialogue as some decorative and communicational. He keeps announcing him, asking for proposals, sending them, putting them in drawers. It sometimes gives scientific advice and finally implements what trade unionists and their ideas will tell her. She demonizes the evaluation of teachers, because it suits her account toward the New Democracy. It has left the universities with the institutional framework it has introduced for asylum a clear vine. It abolishes the pan-Hellenic exams every February and October and in June it restores them much - much more. Generally, our confidence in the government in education competes with the goals that Saudi Arabia put into Russia yesterday in the premiere of Mundial and those you know, you know. For the economy only yesterday we voted on the medium-term and the prerequisites. What confidence can you have, after all, in clean exits from the memorials at 4.5% of the ten-year rate? So clear outlets we'll slip over and eat our faces! What confidence should we have in a government providing for a growth rate of 2.7% for 2017 and finally it achieves exactly half - in 2018, it has already been predicted that 2.5% of the forecast is already in force - and when the only figures to which the government is doing well are surpluses, draining the usual mortgages, the consistent taxpayers, and when it is trying to make almost a blasphemous word and everything must be made by state bodies? In public administration, we are voting for laws on the decommissioning of public administration. The shame is that they make us do this on the outside and we don't do it on our own and you don't apply them to them or rather you're trying to circumvent them and sometimes catch you with the "bone on the back", as with the notices for the secretaries of the ministries who proved to be "photographic" portrait on request. How can we trust you in respect for the institutions when the interventions in them are continuous, reaching even the eruption of members of the AACC who did not support your intentions? How can we trust you when we make suggestions and take them into your deepest drawers, for the National Security Council, for the electoral law, the Constitution, for the transfer of students and much more? How can we trust you when you go to negotiate everything on your own, without any information, involvement of the Anti-Population, without any consultation? And it has haird our language to tell you that we need a national team on these issues, because a consistent national position, whether they are economic or national, has much greater credibility than a simple government position. So one wonders: How can you not trust the government and be positive about an agreement that it brings? The truth is that we were also positive in bills, in individual articles brought by the government. The role of the opposition parliamentary is to consult and try to correct what is corrected in the various bills. The "no to everything" because we are in opposition refers rather to the 2014 SYRIZA. In short, we may be positive about the agreement, but should we be negatively involved in the government? Can an inadequate government bring an adequate deal? Yes, it may, if the juncture is favourable and mature, such as an antagonism player can score if it is in the right place at the right time. It's happened to me many times with my teammates. The score counts, the result, and let the scorer be problematic. The reason why we are voting on the motion of censure is not the same that the New Democracy is voting for, so that Mr Tsipras does not go to the press, as the New Democracy wants. After all, this is mainly about ANELs - these votes are needed for the motion of censure - Mr. Kammens who wants both the chair of power warm and the uniform of Macedon-shaped fresh. But these two together do not go, especially on a subject that is, as they say in their founding declaration, at the top and now make it a gargoy. If hypocrisy were, then, a Olympic sport, the ANELs would have had the gold medal from time to time hanging in their necks. Silver and copper, however, may have been claimed by SYRIZA and New Democracy. SYRIZA because it is pretending that everything has been done perfectly and this solution is ideal and it meets all our demands, and the New Democracy is pretending to really want solutions to this issue and not a perpetuation of the outstanding. Or rather, double hypocrisy is that if the juncture was favourable to a New Democracy government and brought a similar solution, we would have here a complete reversal of the roles. We have lived this with economic issues, why not with nationalities? And why am I saying that? Unfortunately, even the external issues are being worked out by the parties on the altar of micro-party interest, with a glance mystic, a glance that goes up to the next elections and not to the next generations. The scorpion or Macedonian or as you say it and the extension of its openness has been built and continues to build political careers, as it seems, but it is tearing down national perspectives. And there are many people outwards against the agreement and they think: 'Vasta Potami, to resolve the issue'. They say: "Let the Potami take the political cost and we vote profit. Let the river remove the chestnuts from the fire and we votes from the polls." Let me say a few words about the deal. The truth is - we have heard many people say this here - that this is a compromise with a number of positive elements, which have emerged - to stress this - particularly from the pressures of the Americans and Europeans on the Skopje - there have greater difficulties - but also negative points for us, which must not be silenced, but be vigilant. We have already heard Mr Venizelos mention some of these. It is a solution that may not be best for us, but it is clearly better than the continuation of the status quo that acts in favour of the Skopje. And especially since, if any shipwreck is caused by us, the situation will deteriorate, because the international community - if that is what we are interested in, at least those who believe in the European perspective - will charge us the bush of failure, recognizing from now on more rights for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. So it's not a deal to celebrate, it's not even to kick it. Let us therefore, at the end of the sales, traitors and patriots, brokers and sellers, speak with arguments, not with slogans and analogies. The 20th page of the agreement was seen by diplomats, lawyers, international analysts. There are reservations, questions, concerns. However, the agreement seems to achieve the main conditions of the national line on a complex name by geographical identification of erga omnes, a revision of the Constitution, so as to get away from the tracking and funny counterfeiting of our history. Even the star of Berna will leave their public buildings inside and outside their country. Nationality and language are described as "Macedonian" with certain definitions, in order to separate them from Greek history. And that is the point that raises the most and most important objections, like the NATO accession process, although Mr Stoltenberg was clear that accession would take place at the end of the route. The agreement, therefore, is not the end, but rather the starting point for an attempt to overthrow an international feat. What's this fait accompli? The global prevalence of the exclusive term "Macedonia" for the neighbouring country, so that we do not ostracize or fall out of clouds. Time is not in favour of us, so that we can expect more favourable circumstances in the future. This course that starts requires systematic work, diplomatic vigilance and methodicity and obviously also from subsequent governments. In this geopolitical context, we need to close our heads and focus on the real importance. We cannot afford to be surrounded by unstable neighbors who export troubles. Just because I am more rationalist and less impulsive I consider the national interest in terms of long-term sustainability rather than short-term passion. However, passions are moving the voters, and that is why decisions in national matters also seem to be entering the micro-participatory dialogue and from both sides. And one draws, the other pulls, and at the end the rope breaks, throwing both of them down, throwing the country. That is why we say to all tons that by party calculations national issues are not solved. In closing the debate on confidence in the government and on the motion of censure, Potami will remain unaltered in its principles. It's made for the hard stuff, not the popular ones. We are positive in opening up the prospects for a solution to the Macedonian agreement, because we believe that there will be no better juncture in the future and we are negative in any vote of confidence in this government. Because a lot has been said about patriotism, patriotism is looking at the national interest. The national interest also needs prudence and passion, not only for the second one, and of course there is also a need for harmony, which many invoke, but at the same time undermining it with a dissatisfaction and arson. In conclusion, Mr President, I would once again call for tons to fall this week. On these issues there are no patriots and traitors. There are the most rationalists and most impulsive. Whenever the Greek married the mind with passion, we were great. Whenever passion prevailed, we became wrong and regretted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, five students of the Law School from the University of New Orleans America. Welcome to Greece, welcome to Athens, welcome to Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on in the order of business, Mr. Varvitsiotis, Mr. Kremastinos, Mrs. Kozobol and Mrs. Bakoyannis. I had said two other names, but they were mutually transferable. It didn't change the list. Then the Minister for Commercial Shipping, Mr Kurublis, will speak four colleagues and then Mr Lazarides will speak as the Parliamentary Representative of ANELs. Here, Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, I have just heard Mr Matutes come to say that he will need a very serious job from those who manage this agreement to bring it to real results. However, this agreement actually results from its communication. Already by the fact that the Greek Prime Minister said that "we have reached an agreement and that is the text" he has set the bar of all claims and makes the work of anyone who wants or can be renegotiated extremely difficult, because today the international community, as well as the scorpion, have conquered things that they had never conquered in the past. So the announcement of the agreement has produced results from which the country cannot leave. And its signature creates a legal framework for which any sanctions in the future are of no practical significance. And the legal results it produces are also the invitation to NATO along with the ratification by the Parliament of Skopje, but without all the other steps being taken, and the invitation to the European Union. That's why it's a very bad deal. It is a very bad agreement, because it binds the country and tries behind this country's commitment to hide those who say that 'yes, today we are simply signing, in the future we will ratify and then we will all be judged'. No, in future it will be very difficult for any Greek government, wherever it comes from. Even Mr Panos Kammenos - which I deplore - the Macedonian Prime Minister will not be able to ratify this agreement in this Parliament. That is why we are calling for this process to be stopped today. The only way this agreement can be stopped by its implementation is to create political events in Greece so important that it overthrows the diffusion of positive news that this has ended. That is why we have tabled this motion of censure. The New Democracy is a party that has dealt with this issue very seriously and very responsiblely and has suffered the consequences of serious management, which was neither flexible nor convenient. We have never been comfortable with the foreign factor, and we have paid this dearly. Constantine Mitsotakis paid his place and attitude to the dissolution of the former Yugoslavia, so that the US Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Warren Christopher, and on June 11, 1993, without any political events in the country, would come to Athens to announce elections. And Kostas Karamanlis, after his veto in Bucharest, received an unprecedented mud attack and an unprecedented attack on his government cohesion, which eventually led him to electoral defeat. We have paid for it, but we do not change the pressures of the international player. Others have changed and become flexible and rejoice that today those who accuse them of desecrating them. However, the motion of censure we have tabled does not only take effect abroad. It produces results on the inside as well. Because, at last, the masks fell in this Parliament, first of all the masks of the Golden Dawn, which in a delicacy in here - and we did well with the unanimous decision to exclude them - has shown its true personality, how respects the democratic community. I really would like to ask the Minister of Justice at some point - was the Deputy here a moment ago - this trial of the Golden Dawn is ever going to end in the SYRIZA Government? Because three and a half years now, after you've found this room a year and a half, will this be completed? The masks fell on the SYRIZA executives, who many of them have climbed to this Step and speak with the phrase and arguments of Skopje nationalists, VMRO. This argument was brought to this Step here, resurrecting unbelievable pieces of Greek history, to justify what? That not only are Macedonians, but they must also be called Macedonians, we must recognise them as Macedonians, and we are right to recognise them as Macedonians. And these masks fell. The masks fell - and the masks will fall - to the Independent Greeks at last, because they cannot before people and God swear that they will not give Mr. Tsipras the right to negotiate our history and today not only will they give him the right to negotiate our name and history, but with the shameful Article 8(5) we undertake to rewrite our history in a political direction. We undertake under the approval of Mr Kotzia to rewrite Greek history so that any ballots can be removed. And because I do not see Mr Barkas, who challenged this today on television channels, I would just like to read that, because I think that is what no one - but no one! - The committee will examine, if it considers appropriate, any school manuals and auxiliaries, school materials such as maps, historical atlases, teaching guides used by each of the parties. That is what the Prime Minister will finally sign on Sunday in a way that I think causes us all a sense of infinite despair and national defeat. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for the history of this place that six Prime Ministers until now have never dared to admit either Macedonian nation or Macedonian language and none of these six Prime Ministers were either a traitor or a supranationalist. They were people who, with their mistakes and their weaknesses, were responsible for the matter. Today, while you had the opportunity after the change of the Skopje government, to make a serious and firm negotiation, not to give up the right, not to lose any of our national weapons, which is really the veto and our participation in NATO, which is our participation in the European Union, today you are giving them to an agreement which, unfortunately, will bind the country to the inter national and second, will produce results that will not make us proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u269	We're going with my colleague, Mr. Cremastino.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure by the New Democracy is of course against the government. It seems, however, that it concerns all citizens more generally with regard to what is called credibility of the political system. How can the citizen not be considered naive when, in his vote, he believes that he is ordering to be represented in the House and the person representing him does not follow his mandate? I am referring to a specific example. I heard today on the radio, at a radio station in the car, the voice of Mr. Kammenos, who repeated - I think it is not a model - and he said 'I will not allow any Samaras, Venizelos, Tsipras to grant the name of Macedonia'. But with his party vote he will support the Prime Minister to go to sign this agreement. I'm not judging the deal. I consider, however, how the political system is judged by the people who are following what is happening in the House. So, unfortunately, the political system is degraded. I just brought an example. That's not all. I could deal with and bring other examples, but it is not here, where there is no respect for the views and positions expressed by the public when you invite him to vote for you and send you to the House. Mrs Gennimatas, with two hundred and twelve thousand votes supporting her, as President of the PASOK, as well as the Change Movement, points out in a statement that she sees this agreement as a positive step. At the same time, however, it expresses reservations about its implementation. Why? Because it depends mainly on the actions of the neighbouring country and not on us. This is officially the position of the Change Movement. How can there be no reservations when officially the President of Skopje, Ivanov and the largest party, VMRO - which is in opposition, but is in the number of parliamentarians with a larger party - says it will overthrow it? How can you be sure that this agreement will proceed? How can there be no reservations, since Skopje in the past did not implement the interim agreement, for which they were bound by signatures and international guarantees, even of the Americans? The Americans had taken the lead at the time to make the interim agreement. We insist on our positions of geographical designation as to the name and the abolition of all elements and symbols of the alpha-fixing in the Constitution, which should be in detail. Until then, if not all of this happens, the veto should not be lifted for NATO and the European Union, and it should not, of course, be under any circumstances, to start accession procedures. The reservation we make is not opposition. It belongs to the history of Skopje, the interim agreement. Problem: If there was no interim agreement, how would Kostas Karamanlis veto be in Bucharest? There would be? If there was no interim agreement, would we be discussing this today? We wouldn't have talked about it. One hundred and forty states leading the largest, namely Russia, America and China, have recognized everything, "National Republic of Macedonia" and not "The People's Republic of Macedonia" that had previously been recognised. He left "Laika", Skopje insists that they erase the first word and say "After you have recognized us for so many years as Macedonian People's Republic, what do you mind now removing the word "Lach"? This is not the case, of course, because they actually have proliferational and anti-pollutionist tendencies. That is why I believe that everyone in this House should strengthen this view and support it, namely that their Constitution must change clearly, and until then we must monitor the facts, because history has taught us that so far Skopje has not applied what has been signed. I must also tell you, because I lived at that time, that Papandreou had just become Prime Minister in 1993, in a semester he imposed the famous "empargo" and then the whole mechanism of America was mobilized, because America wanted Skopje to survive. And Cyrus Vance and Holbrook all came here asking for the "empargo" to be lifted and an interim agreement signed. They have also signed the interim agreement, but it has not been complied with. Another if he gave us and thanks to Andreas Papandreou - to remember him again - the opportunity to discuss today. Why are we talking today? Wouldn't everyone recognize her? Would it only be a hundred and forty states? It would also be the European Union sooner or later. So we must respect both our history and the people who played and what has happened today. Of course, I have also heard on the radio, as I said before, that I am going - I wish not to believe it - to order, to make a statement by the former Prime Minister, Mr Karamanlis. If he decides to speak, I believe that he will honour his story and speak before Parliament, because that is what the Constitution demands, that is what democracy demands. Alas, if all of us, who are MPs, didn't speak here and make announcements! A lot more protagonists, meaning Prime Ministers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u271	We're going with my colleague from SYRIZA, Mr. Kozobol. Then Mrs Bakoyannis will follow and Mr Kurublis will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Members who have tabled the motion of censure know that there is legitimacy for signing the agreement, since such agreements are concluded with the Foreign Minister and are valid since their ratification by Parliament. They also know that the problem created over time by the governments of the New Democracy and that the proposal on which the negotiation took place today is the proposal formulated by the New Democracy in 2008. In fact, the current agreement went further, after including a further constitutional revision. They also know that the New Democracy MPs who submitted the motion of censure to the government are unsolved in the agreement that a problem that has remained unresolved for twenty-seven years has been healed by a wound which has been misled, overthrown established situations and perpetrated against our country, since it is known that nineteen countries have recognized the country's "Macedonia" as the neighbour, relations of peace and friendship are being established between the two countries, prospects for the development of northern Greece. I don't want to say any more. A great deal has been said about this. You know all this, gentlemen, in the New Democracy. Others, therefore, are the reasons why you have been asked to submit this motion of censure. We find her answer, if we look back a little bit, not much, not in the ultimate or the ultimate past, but in the most recent, after the birth of the Head of New Democracy. The policies of the governments of the New Democracy and of the PASOK that followed each other and complemented each other were only consistent in this respect, to protect what was necessary, to justify their retention in the prefecture of power. There was no development plan, not even for the country's elementary modernisation. The country survived, didn't live. He survived with borrowing. Excessive lending and debt paying manipulations have led to full deadlocks, which have deteriorated by two loan programs. It was two projects that made the Greek people even more poor, with 25% of GDP being deducted, which could only happen during a war period. But we don't stop there. The terms of the agreed programmes have not been complied with by the governments that managed them and which have concluded these programmes and after the deadlock of failure and the second programme have literally escaped. They brought early the election of the President of the Republic and then elections, planning the left-wing parentheses. The current government, after a hard negotiation, signed a loan contract whereby our lenders have undertaken the payment of our loan commitments for three years. The terms of the agreement are to be relied upon. Each instalment would be disbursed for the payment of our maturities subject to certain conditions, which would be assessed at four identified time points, the known prerequisites. The framework of the agreement was signed by a large majority of Parliament. Then any delay in the assessments caused cries and cries and the demand for the government to resign because it is allegedly unable to complete the agreement signed. Even a movement we saw, the "Resign". Every time the evaluation was completed, the law of law came to the parliament. However, at that time, I conspired that the opposition was lamenting about the evil that this government does in the country, which again called for resignation, even though what they come to vote was much better and milder than the original framework that they had already voted on and which, of course, never passed a law implementing the 2015 Legislative Framework, without being an exception to the last implementing law that was passed the day before. Here, of course, there were additional reasons why this law should not be passed, because it was the last legislative framework in 2015. And complete a loan program without opening any more. The country turns a page and puts an end to a grim decade and returns sovereignty and responsibility to elected representatives of citizens. Of course, the huge debt that has been inherited to this government creates obligations involving monitoring, as well as obligations resulting from the status of our country as a Member State of the European Union. However, this monitoring has nothing to do with the one we have experienced in recent years, where every provision, every proposal of a law, even if it was not a financial one, has to be approved by creditors. The main one following this latest implementing law is that we are coming out of the programmes, having a development plan for the country already in place and delivering results, having permanent fronts against corruption, having put the country in a orbit of modernisation with a clear policy of overcoming the economy, fulfilling the promise of the 2015 elections. The last chance is therefore lost for this government to fall. And along with this lost opportunity the legends of dragons, bambooes, calamities that this government supposedly brought into the country are falling apart. Because citizens are beginning to understand the difference in their everyday lives too. This raises concern for those who have been involved in corruption, since despite the difficulties, the dialogues and the protective framework for politicians, the investigation of the scandals that have bankrupt the country is moving forward. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the real causes of the motion of censure, that is the concern for their own luck the next day. The proposal for distrust is their last hope, it has nothing to do with the agreement, an agreement that brings our country to a pole of stability and peace in the region and to a factor of progress in the areas and peoples of the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u273	Me too, Mrs. Kozobol. You were accurate in your time. Mrs Dora Bakoyannis has the floor. Here, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u274	I shall ask for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u275	Mrs Bakoyannis, have I given it to all colleagues here, will I not give it to a colleague in Athens?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, there are moments in parliamentary history that no one is entitled to remain silent. These are moments when we are not talking to the people, let alone the election audience, but to the previous and subsequent generations. After all, the poet was clear: "You owe to those who came, they pass, they will come, they will pass. Judges will judge us, the unborn dead.” He's been spinning that poem in my head for the last few days. It was also the favourite poem of Constantine Mitsotakis, for which so much was done yesterday and today in this Chamber. I would therefore like to ask you for your tolerance, because today I will speak not only as a man who has lived the scorpion since the first hour, but also as the Minister for Foreign Affairs who, in the Government of the New Republic of Costas Karamanlis, designed and implemented the Bucharest strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, we owe the people the truth. Since the end of the Cold War, thirty years ago, the skopje has stigmatized the country’s international presence. All of us who were approaching this issue calmly and soberly agree that not only could we, but had to be a solution from the beginning of the 1990s. But then, unfortunately, we were covered by the wave of populism, the patriocapacy, the octopus won, opportunism won. With a sample of that logic, SYRIZA is working together today. But it is not time to take stock. Now we have to look forward. I have to say that there are moments in political life where silence is a decent path. I listened carefully yesterday to Mr Tsipras' speech. I will resist the temptation to describe it. The distance from pilgrimage and arrogance to popular nemesis is as much from 'osanna' to 'cross him'. So what did the Prime Minister tell us? He told us that he serves the national line that we drew up in 2007 and 2008. A little - it appeared as the natural continuity of our own policy. I wonder if this shows his ignorance or it's just another flag of opportunity. Here, moreover, he came to appeal to Constantine Mitsotakis, a man who left foreign policy with a distinct image, a leader who knew to negotiate for the good of his country, a man of measure and logic, who, along the way, defended the national interest, with responsibility and effectiveness. The Prime Minister's hypocrisy goes a long way. Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Tsipras did not understand, he did not or did not want to understand what happened in 2008, allow me, even at the last hour, to make a reference, because it is not too late to make it clear and, possibly, to make progress. In 2008, the international player’s desire to immediately integrate Skopje into NATO was strong. At the same time, for the Greek government it was clear that once the Watchtower entered NATO and the EU accession process started, the next step would be to ask the UN for recognition under their constitutional name and not, of course, with the "former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia". The Greek Government had to make a big decision: To function in the sense of the interim agreement, to make a huge effort to achieve mutual, beneficial agreement or to demonstrate the intransigence of Skopje and thus their sole responsibility for not finding a solution? I have not had the slightest doubt at all that, in order for that effort to succeed, there had to be two conditions: firstly, that the issue of internal conflict should not become a skeptical one. That's why I informed all the political leaders before we started the international campaign ahead of Bucharest. That is why we have presented our proposal to the government's programme statements. That is why we submitted our plan to the committee responsible, with the chairman of the House, Mr Kammenos, rather, historically ironically. That is where we secured the agreement of all parties, except, of course, the extreme LAOS. It was also a matter of maximum emotional burdens, which could easily divide the Greek people. Secondly, the creation of a national front and the absolute matching of the government and, in particular, the Prime Minister with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence. The country had to negotiate strong and united. I have no doubts about the pressures that we would face and about the costs that our policy would have, which was actually incurred. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have made a genuine attempt to seek an agreement. However, a sustainable, honest, realistic and practicable agreement. Our aim was and is an agreement that would definitively respond to the logic of Stalin and Tito, which was reflected in the theory of Macedonianism in the Balkans, which stems from the events of Iliden, but also an agreement that would, of course, respond to the already detested international graphics, by means of the robbery of the ancient heritage of the statues of Alexander the Great. But what is the real danger in the region? The logic of "Great Macedonia", i.e. of exiting the Aegean. Not just for today, but for tomorrow and tomorrow. Much less when reviewing forces in the region sought opportunities to work Skopje against us. In order to fight this logic, we had to fight aluterism, an aluterism, which has been systematically cultivated in the consciousness of the citizens of the neighbouring country for decades. We found a lyric reaction from Gruevski. I have here a post that claims that the Greeks want to get us our identity and language. He knew what Mr. Gruevski was saying. He wasn't hiding. We stayed, not because we wanted to get their identity and language, but because we just wanted to record the reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, I have never called into question the right to self-determination. After all, it would not be convincing to the international community. In citizenship, however, - and you have heard it before and recorded it - the permanent Greek position, at least a few days ago, was that it should be described as citizens of this country, with the strong argument that it is a multicultural country and that citizenship should express all ethnic groups. We were just as clear in language. The designation must be linked to the name of the new state. Let us think, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias are going to sign a Macedonian language, namely a language, officially in Skopje today, have voted the Albanian language as an official language. We, in other words, recognize the 70% language and not 100%. Why? The truth is one. We did not give this battle for reasons of amazement, but for reasons of substance, because that is the heart of the problem. You have given her the name of Iliden, and that is the big problem at a time that was indeed the best possible. For the past thirty years, neighbors' positions have been stable. They claimed - and you will see it in all the archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - two things: identity and language. And the reason is obvious. During the Gruevski period, the logic of altyrism reached and peaked with the ancient Greek history of Alexander the Great, which is why it was abandoned with great ease by the Zaev government. The SYRIZA - ANEL government saw the cheese, but did not see the flashlight. It is noted that the proposed agreement cannot be claimed in Skopje that he is a descendant of Alexander the Great, which has always been obvious, because no one in the international community that has finished the city has ever doubted that Alexander the Great was speaking Greek. Instead, the idea of Macedonia of Iliden, which would destabilise the region, legalises it with this agreement. And let us make a comparison because I heard Mr Kotzias' dear colleague say 'If there was no Bucharest, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kotzias could not negotiate today'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u277	That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u278	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u279	It was a difficult, very difficult debate, ladies and gentlemen, at that time and I say it for the first time. And I personally have been targeted and extremely large attacks carried out by the international community and everything that could have been done to influence the then Karamanlis government has been done. We insisted, however, with stubborn heads, with devotion and faith, that I respond mainly to our country and its potential. And yes, I am sorry that Mr Kotzias is not present today. He is neither the first nor the last to which he is offered controversy. But we resisted and held our head high. After all, our arsenal was full, because we had practically achieved the unity of the civilian forces. Let me make a comment here. I am watching the Foreign Minister roaming around the channels and threatening to make secret documents public. After all, Stasi's logic is at least known to our generation. Mr. Kotzias has experience of his co-operation with the punctual memory regime... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Calm down, gentlemen, calm down. I, therefore, even through the dear Mr Flambury who is here now to inform him - Mr Flamouraris - that he should submit everything to the Minutes of this House. But everything! And since he's going to bother to testify all of it, let's testify his own, what he's done over the last year to reach this deal. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So to finish, ladies and gentlemen, you are celebrating a bad agreement. You're presenting the easy ones. And let's not fool ourselves, if we had made these concessions and those discounts, we'd have had an agreement for ten years. And for free, without splitting the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, the story of the scop has often highlighted the pathogens of the Greek political system. Pick at last, if not all of you, at least the unfortunate MPs of the ANELs: 'Mr. Tsipras'', as Mr. Kammens said or 'Macedonia', as Mr. Kammenos said again? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am voting in favour of the motion of censure, because all that you have heard before is correct. Once this agreement has been signed, it produces legal effects and no government will be able tomorrow, after two years, to deny it or not to support it. That's the reality. You still have a long time, ladies and gentlemen, these basic and huge weaknesses in the agreement to change them. I sincerely believe that the sooner the country is freed from you, the better we will find the way to tomorrow. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Calm down, calm down. I firmly believe that we can reach a better agreement and we must make the effort in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u280	You are wrong with what you say. We've been waiting for another reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u281	Don't confuse yourself, ladies and gentlemen. The next New Democracy government will do it after it has relieved the country of the cancer of discord and demagogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u282	The Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Kurublis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, at such times, historical about the place, there is a need for measure, moderation and soundness. I expected Mrs Bakoyannis to be at least a little more careful about the sales designations. But it's interesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u284	What are you talking about? Be serious. Did I say sellout?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u285	Didn't you say about ANELs selling Macedonia?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u286	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u287	Get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u288	Get it back. Ask Mr. Flambury for listening. You guys were differently busy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u289	Mrs. Bakoyannis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u290	What am I supposed to do, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u291	Hear him patiently. And when it's done and it's something personal, you should ask for the floor on staff. This is the parliamentary procedure. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u292	Politics, therefore, needs bravery. Because it is interesting to listen to people who were telling the other "supper" to be now in the same party and on the same bank, against a government that had courage and daring to lift the burden and proceed with a fair solution, to an honest compromise to relieve the country of suffering that some do not know. At least Mrs Bakoyannis was Foreign Minister. And he's watching how things are evolving in the Balkans, and what is Turkey's penetrating this whole region? How she is constantly having influences, Mrs Bakoyannis, and in Orthodox Serbia, which did not dare, to recognise the Armenian genocide, while she was committed. He took her back. That's not what you tell the Greek people. You don't say where the real threat is. You remind me of the time of the cold war, which, while Greece was threatened by the east, we said we were threatened by the northern neighbours. That is the reality that you do not tell the Greek people. Nor do you tell the Greek people about the decision of the International Court of Justice in the action brought by FYROM. And there is a big question. Because the Greek people are intelligent and have no memory of goldfish about what you used to say, what you now say, what one man said. He's got a memory. One hundred and thirty-five countries recognized Skopje as Macedonia. And they call them Macedonia. The world has a tombstone, and we're here with a secret curiosity. That's the truth. Is Tsipras responsible for this and Kotzias? For these thirty-five countries is Tsipras and Kotzias responsible, ladies and gentlemen? For the I.D.? I'll be back in 1991. Who signed the break-up of Yugoslavia? Who has co-signed this great crime against the Serbian people and the Balkans to create all this liquidity in this wider region in an area that has always been characterised as a silica warehouse? Who signed it? The warlord, Mr. Samaras, who was then released from the late Constantine Mitsotakis and the late Constantine Karamanlis. Do you forget the letter Mr. Samaras sent to the late Karamanlis? Now he's invoking him. In fact, he invokes Andreas Papandreou. Gently. That is the reality we need to discuss today. As often as, ladies and gentlemen, this country has made some critical agreements, there has always been that, unfortunately, negativity, because there has never been bravery in politics. Eleftherios Venizelos, when he signed the Treaty of Serbs the next day, received a murderous attempt. You are also telling us that this government is not legitimate. The 1959 Government, which signed the Treaty of Zurich, was legalized differently? The 1980 government, which voted for the country's accession to the European Union, had different legitimacy, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u293	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u294	Oh, he did. And now it doesn't. You'll get her answer tomorrow. But you know very well what you are doing, because you do not want the elections, so you have tabled this proposal. Because you know very well, therefore, that on the basis of the decision taken tomorrow by the House to end the election tale, with which you have been cultivating expectations in your world. That's the truth. What does this agreement come up with, ladies and gentlemen? It would be nice not to prejudge, because you did well to ask for the Minutes, Mrs Bakoyannis, but there are Minutes of previous years. So let's see what you said about the complex name. Because I have not heard you speak of the complex name by geographical determination. You avoided it. So the agreement with Article 1 is coming and it takes Macedonia back, which you have given with the weakness you have shown all these years and the inability to convince even one country not to recognise them. That's the truth. Politics is judged on the result. That's the truth. You have not convinced any country either from the east or from the west. And so the agreement takes the name "Macedonia" and makes it geographically defined. And when the Minutes come out, we will see what you said about 'North Macedonia'. Well, don't rush. The writings were left, the Latins said. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] So what else does the deal do? Genaris, when the Prime Minister met with FYROM Prime Minister in Davos, you went to the bars. At least I have heard several colleagues from the New Democracy saying 'it is not possible to limit ourselves to the name, but also to symbols and to the pervertism, so a change in the constitution'. Have you raised this issue of the change of constitution? We'll see the Minutes. I'm a good-looking man. If you'd put it on, good. But if you hadn't, then you should tell the Greek people who the hypocrite is. That's what this is about. That's the truth again. What else does the deal say? In Article 8, it says everything. Have you succeeded? Did you put it on the table? You didn't even think about it. All these years that you ruled, spoke and said that they were descendants of Alexander the Great, built statues, gave names to avenues, and Article 7 of the agreement comes and finally cuts them off from their relationship with antiquity. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And because I hear you crying about the name and about the language, who signed the 1959 Agreement, recognizing FYROM, as the Republic of Macedonia? Look at the books of the '60s, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Bring me a geography book to see what the books at that time taught us. What countries is Yugoslavia composed of? From the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Macedonia. When Georgios Papandreou went to Belgrade in 1964 and raised the subject of Macedonia, he interrupted his visit. I don't know what happened by other governments at that time. We have to say things the way they are. We're getting to the language too. When the agreement comes and connects the language and says that this language is South-Slavic and that it belongs to the family of South-Slavic languages, what else does it have to say? In 1977 you know very well what happened. I'm saying this to be close to reality. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is the only country to be able to dismantle this country. You know well that the only ones who can win are the right and left side and side of this state. That would be a development that would feed majesticism in these countries. And people in this area know that too. They know very well what Greece means to them. From this agreement, then, Greece is politically strengthened at a global level, when it has open fronts where you all know and know and should be the minds of all of us there. I am ashamed to hear people and even former generals say that this country can threaten us. If Greece becomes a threat to this country, with such a story of this people, uh, then I don't know what soldiers they were. Ladies and gentlemen, resolving this problem will enable Greece to be a regional force in the Balkans, to open up economic routes and to get the port of Thessaloniki the impetus for development, which will show it as the best trading centre for Central Europe from any other region of Europe. So there are many advantages to the government's decision to go to resolve this issue. Critic, of course, can be done. There are issues to be mentioned. But a deal is not a rental agreement. It's a two-state deal, where de facto some will win. On both sides some things will be claimed. You're coming right now and you're matching the Skopje nationalists. That's what you're doing. Mr. Mitsotakis really gives me the impression that in trying to be weaned by the shadow of his father, who was an important politician of the country, he is overreached by Mr. Samaras' extreme policies. And that's dangerous for both the New Democracy and the homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u297	Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, I have a terrible personal issue because, firstly, Mr Kourublis did not follow this issue and secondly, he deeply offended me. Has it ever been possible in my political vocabulary to use Mr Kammenos's expressions? Please withdraw immediately, Mr Kurubli, because our difference with Mr Kammenos is a beast. I could never use Mr Tsipras's prostitute or Macedonia's "shopping". It's not in my vocabulary. Please, these to your partner in the government and not to us. Secondly, I would like to make a comment, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Curublis told us about the '81s for the '90s. We had a government majority. You don't ask Mrs. Kollia who is in front of you, what pleasure will she give you the passport for the Prespes, Mr. Kurubli?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u301	Mr Kotzias has the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u302	If I understood correctly and if I were correctly transferred, the insults she uses a specific magazine that is interconnected with Ms. Bakoyannis, who have been sentenced by Greek courts to the first court, the final court and the Argentine Ice Court with her own intact as usual used them again. I call upon her or take them back or lift her immunity to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u304	Here you go, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you want to comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, I am very pleased to hear that. Come on, Mr. Kotzia, let's put it down, see who in East Germany wrote books, when he wrote the books, who worked with them. Here we are, sue me, I will ask for my immunity to be lifted immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u307	Mr Kotzia, don't make this dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u308	No, you're insulting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u309	Can I run?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u310	Mr. President, it's resurrected. She reiterated the excitement to disorientate from her party's mess in the issue of Macedonian-skopje. Repeat it. It is known that on the same day that the newspaper 'News' published this morning, on page 9, after the first Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union, on page 5, by mistake, published Mr Steinmeier's interview with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, where he explained that we lived on the same road and we were classmates at a university near Frankfurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u311	What does one have to do with the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u312	I never did a day of study or other scientific activities in East Germany. A book, which I am pleased to have written with one of the greatest spiritual people in West Germany, when I was only nineteen, professor of the University of Bremen, is overwritten by the magazine that may have been funded by her family. I don't know exactly what her relationship is. Mrs. Bakoyannis has to prove where I studied. He's taken an important step. When I first became Minister, he doubted that I had even studied. That's the kind of misery he's talking about. These propagandas he says to cut people down and he's not ashamed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u314	Mrs Bakoyannis, if it is possible that your comment does not exceed the minute, please too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u315	I do not want to disorientate the debate, I just want to repeat it. Mr. Kotzia, what I doubted you proved to be a great deal, that you are not a professor at Harvard and you are not a professor in Oxford and you were forced to eat it. The second thing I have to tell you is that as far as what you want to prove, you can sue me. It says that I will not be covered behind immunity. Come on, let's go to court and put your story down, which I think you'd like to prove.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u317	Mr Kotzia, do not talk about the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u318	Don't just swear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u319	You're the one who swears. If you like to be told, what they say is your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, what are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u321	False publications are known for my scientific training. Mrs Bakoyannis herself had in her party the current dean of the University of Piraeus, who confirmed that everything I have said is true. As far as Oxford is concerned, I have the honour of being elected Senior Associated Membership, which is being elected then. It can't be today. I have set up a whole curriculum, SEESOX at the University of Oxford. As far as the University of Marburg is concerned, I had the great honour of having done professututretung and a visiting teacher. Professuvertretung became the seat of Abendroth, in which Mr Simitis was a doctorate. It is a special charge of the Landes Act of Hessen, and that she and her company, who have been insulting me for years, do not know it, it is theirs. As far as Harvard is concerned, I never said I was a professor at Harvard. I said I was a researcher at Weatherhead Centre in Harvard itself. I'm also honored by this center that invited me five times while I'm a minister, no matter how long I didn't get to go. I am also honored by the University of Oxford, which I made in 2016 the University's annual speech and whoever knows from universities, the annual speech is about important scientific entity and personality. As far as the University of Marburg is concerned, I have made three visiting professors and once vertretungs. The question is that Mrs Bakoyannis once told us how she obtained her degree and from which schools she was transferred to the School of Political Sciences in Munich.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u322	Minister, sit down because this will not continue for everyone's CV and his studies. You're welcome. It's not going to go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u324	Mrs. Collia, do you want the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u325	For my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u326	You're in line after four colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, I have made a change in the position of Mr Lazaridis and because Mrs Bakoyannis is here, I would like to reply to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u328	Excuse me, let me know. So, on personal grounds, you're asking for a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u329	Obviously. He referred personally to me. However, I said not to eat the Members' time, to get straight into my speech and place myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, the Foreign Minister cannot swear MPs here. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u331	But, Mr. Varvitsiotis, what exactly do you want now? What do you want right now? What do you want? You're telling me? Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u332	Respect at least the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u333	Mrs. Collia, you have the floor on staff. Then you'll speak properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u334	We with Pano Kammenos, who has been taking the shots for many years, because we dared to say some things by their name, and today, as our President himself will say tomorrow, as he said in his interview the other day, that this convention, this agreement, we do not accept it. We have the right as Greek citizens. We have the right as Greek MPs. We have the right because we are committed by our founding procedures not to allow anyone to call Skopje Macedonia for any reason. That is another thing - which is why I wanted to put myself in my basic speech, in my report - and also to cast the government down because they have a problem within the New Democracy. As for the Prespecies, Mrs. Bakoyannis, don't laugh. I'm not Bakoyannis. I'm Maria Collia. That is what all the Neo-Democrats and all of Greece know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u335	He's going to the press tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u336	The Prespes will go to those who want to, whenever they want to, and whoever they want. I again declare that I do not accept this agreement. But I am not voting today on this agreement. When this deal comes to ratify...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u337	He's going to the press. He'll go tomorrow and tie you up handiwork.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u338	I'll see you at Stepma, Mr. Comrade. Now you remembered those? [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] This is a debate on all of this, which has taken place in previous years, and we applauded it and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u339	Mrs. Collia, the rest in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u340	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u341	Who are you, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u342	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u343	Mr. Davakis, can you sit down, please? Mr. Davakis! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u344	It's unacceptable! It's unprecedented!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Davaki? Aren't you responding? Sit down! Minister, please. Mr. Davakis, sit down! Jesus, respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u346	It's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u347	I'll handle it, not you. Minister, when you declare your status, you should know that there is a specific political behavior that accompanies this status. You have no right to intervene in this way by the cabinet. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u349	What exactly do you want, Minister? What do you want? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u350	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u351	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u352	Because this is where we have a situation with our fellow Members who show themselves on the finger. We're very careful. I've been here since the morning, and I want respect to be mutual. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u353	Madam Minister, do you think I can't handle this debate? Please, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u354	No, but there are constant interferences that have to do with ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u356	Mrs Bakoyannis, I assure you this is the last time you have spoken and I want you to speak for just thirty seconds. Please, too! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are not helping the Bureau at all! And that's not right. I'm trying to form a treaty of understanding. Please! Here, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, I understand the irritation of the members of the Governing Council and the parliamentary majority. I would ask you very much to avoid any designations, as your Minister for Foreign Affairs has used. I respect Mrs. Collia's irritation, I understand that. I would have the same difficulty if I were her. He described me as... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u358	Mrs. Bakoyannis, you're not helping me at all! He's born new staff now. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u359	It has given me the floor, ladies and gentlemen. She wouldn't have sent him, so I wouldn't have answered her. In this case, Mrs. Kollia, open the books a little and you will see that your vote tomorrow is the passport to sign the agreement, which will produce legal results. Either way, you can't hide it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u360	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u362	Mrs Kollia, please do not take the floor, because what you will say is surely included in the speech you are going to make next. Please help me. Everything you have to say in your speech. Mr Thraniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. There's too much irritation today. The challenge I don't know where it comes from and who's getting upset about it. Looks like some people are losing their way looking for him. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the proposal for the withdrawal of confidence tabled by the New Democracy against the Government. I copy from the proposal, signed by the Members of the Civil Liberation Officers: 'Three and a half years now the government is povertying citizens. He signed two Memorandums, bound the country with heavy pension cuts and wages, increased taxes, mortgageed public property. Inadmissible methods cause damage to the functioning of institutions and the rule of law." It is then referred to in the second plea, the agreement to resolve the time-consuming problem noted by your resignation is the one that lasts so many years in the news, so that the word "Macedonia" has been used for years by a hundred and forty countries of the world. On the second issue, the Macedonian, I won't take much time. Mr Katrugalos, but also other worthwhile speakers, gave the account, especially Mrs Anagnastopoulou, who, in her speech, gave lessons of history. I would suggest that all Members read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u364	Frare said more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Athanasios, at least learn to respect those who respect you and do not interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u366	And you, Mr. Thraniotis, in your speech. Let me handle this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u367	As an older Member, you should be an example to be imitation rather than to be avoided.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u368	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u369	Good. Continue your speech, please. Mr. Athanasios, you are a noble man. Let my colleague continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u370	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou's speech will be useful because it is a thorough placement as it deserves a university teacher who honors science. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like today to call for a statement by Mr Alivizatos, a valid constitutionalist, who has been honoured by you, who said today at a radio station, that the Zaev-Tsipras agreement is 80% in favour of Greek interests. But you will allow me to refer a reference to the second in turn of the Officerial Response. He went up to the Stepma yesterday, making threats from anyone in Northern Greece, to the Independent Greeks, to those who think to vote against the motion of censure. The same is true of the Committee of Inquiry into Health, when it sees that some of the witnesses are having trouble. Of course, he has not succeeded in defending them as he would have sought, because in some of them the prosecutor of corruption has prosecuted a criminal offence of a malicious nature and are brought to justice, which he will decide. In this delusional, civil war and divisive reason, where threats, blackmails, targeting fellow Members of Parliament, you will allow me to dedicate the song of Giannis Angelaka: "I am told if I leave the circle I will be lost. Only on the edge can I walk around. I can't cry! Don't be afraid!' Unfortunately, it is being made more timely today after the nostalgic representatives of Nazism have been placed in this Chamber a few hours ago, when all the wings of this House have been condemned, but unfortunately we are not concerned. As regards the first section of your proposal, here science really raises hands! Do you really think that the Greek people believe you, when you say that within three years that have not yet been completed - and not three and a half - the government has increased the poverty of the Greek people, while in the past five years you have shared money from the window? It is enough to read this phrase in the motion of censure to see how clearly false the following are. Of course you won't find unborn to make fun of them. All of you have lived your works in recent years, but also in previous years, and when your political dynasties changed in power of plundering the state. To refresh the memory and repeat once again who is responsible for the bankruptcy of the Greek state and the impoverishment of the Greek people: "On the basis of the data and developments so far, as well as the prospects we are faced with an unprecedented financial derailment, which is not justified. And it is absolutely certain that the country's present fiscal position is not manageable." Who says that? The Bank of Greece’s 2009 report. Who was running the country at that time, ladies and gentlemen? Who raised the debt from 10% and went 180%? Let's go further, ladies and gentlemen. What followed this, the Bank of Greece's finding? We got into the memoirs. Why did we enter the memos? Because some people who have borrowed so many years of money in Greece wanted their money back. Who paid for this story? No, of course, those who took the money and put it in foreign banks, in paradises where they figure out in circumstantial positions, such as Lagard, Borgians or expensive real estate. That's why you took care of the insurance funds. That's why you fired civil servants, especially health and education. That is why the scandals that exist in health are those that succeed one another. Dynan, CICPN, NOVARTIS and who knows and how much more public health inspectors will discover. Between 2010 and 2015, the Greek people lost 25% of national income, unemployment reached 28%, wages and pensions decreased 40%. That's the reality. We, ladies and gentlemen, are putting an end to the conditions for leaving the committee so that we can breathe freely in August. None of us claim that the next day will automatically solve all the problems that have been accumulated for so many years. But we'll be able to manage our luck. And as Nikos Kazantzakis says: “Do not admit to asking: Are we going to win? Are we going to win? War.’ We have a duty to fight to create better conditions for this country and for this people and make sure it gives us the opportunity to do so again. Because we take care of the weak social strata, we take care of the children at the children's stations, we take care of workers by reintroducing collective labour agreements, which for some are considered to be ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-five students and students and three educational attendances from the University School of Thesprotikos Preveza. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Antony Syrigos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will also try to say two words, although I believe that my speech will have the fate of a table in a painting exhibition which, from other paintings with intense colours, is lost, but that is not what I think it is. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words about history, from history, not my own, avoiding monotonous clichés, before I begin to think about it: "Otherwise, you will see that Greece, which started 15 years ago from Melunan, has since been in its vagina and Epirus and the Greek part of Macedonia, and western Thrace and Crete and the islands... and that from Melea, our limits have been here today in Hebron. If I am not mistaken, there has never been a Greek national state as great." I mention this to note the words 'the Greek part of Macedonia'. It is for the reason of Eleftherios Venizelos in 1929 in Youth of the Liberals. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the House was scheduled to be informed by the Prime Minister officially and in accordance with what its Rules of Procedure require for Friday morning, that is today, which was obviously cancelled by the distrusters to the government because of this procedure. Usually, you hear, you learn, you learn about it, because the agreements are not just text, and then you take the actions you wish to take into account what has been said. In this respect, the Qualified Opposition did not expect the Prime Minister's institutional briefing of the House. It did what it had decided, "as ready from time to time", because of... institutional impatience. But is that correct? I think it's uncomfortable. Ladies and gentlemen, what is being said or heard these days about the agreement that is on the adjacent state is dictating to me some principles which we must take into account before we open our mouths and talk about them in discussions that concern them, preventing them from being demonstrable and allowing them to be examined soberly. I think most of you will agree. Firstly, foreign policy is not being conducted on the streets and under the state of tension. Secondly, foreign policy must not be exhausted internally, i.e. it must avoid the temptation of political costs. Thirdly, foreign policy must take into account the fact that it is taking place in a field of Member States' power, such as the field of international relations. That is why it must be realistic and exploiting the international juncture and the beneficial alliances. Fourthly, foreign policy is not conducted in the ears of all or 'on Camerra'. But that does not mean secret diplomacy, as some claim. Fifthly, international agreements are not just the texts, for which very good and detailed debate is taking place. The agreements - and in particular their implementation - are based again on the wide scope of the Member States which have to lead them where they wish. Their implementation is therefore a question of real, strength of international correlations and the culture of trust between the parties. To this end, ratification of the agreement after compliance with the conditions laid down is ensured, while ratification before compliance with the conditions is incorrect. There are no individual issues in foreign policy. You can't tell. It's a set. There are Greek-Turkish, cacedonian, Cypriot. But that's total. Every time something happens, there's a function. I believe that the present government as a whole is working on every single issue. In foreign policy, therefore, there are no individual issues. All of them must be examined globally as interconnectors. They're not splitting up. Any objection, equitable with a democracy which does not take into account this complex reality, is incomplete and inappropriate. If you distinguish the agreement from the whole of obscure foreign policy, you are wrong. This dimension may not be perceived by Opposition and remains ecstatic towards it. Now, with regard to the rally, no one forbids them in a democracy. I would only remind you of a historic rally that was known for the great "disguise" against Eleftherios Venizelos in 1916 as an example for avoidance. And that is because we have already heard voices and cries about treason, traitors, mercifuls, denials, etc. I would like to point out to you that foreign policy is not exercised by the service of outside judges 'in the face of every court'. So precipitation and "always open, always vigilant, the eyes of our soul." In the same politically clear way, I will comment on the objections of the Opposition and on economic issues. The year 2018 marks the beginning of the end of a difficult and painful path. The aim is to stand on our feet, because the economy is the foundation on which a state builds not only its bliss and progress, but also its strength. The goal of the 3rd year 2015-2018 is to stand on our feet. In August we will be as close as ever to the wishing and claiming goal. Recovery of our once lost confidence was a great success of this three - year period. In this sense, criticism is legitimate, however intense it is, but without catastrophic, risky and pessimism. These are not a mixture of creative policy, even if one aims to overthrow a government because one is not convinced. The 'instead' or 'against' are critical, but barren, as they do not contain a proposal. In recent years, the complaint has replaced the political proposal and the rational spirit and become monotonous and tiring by strengthening extreme forces that use hatred as oxygen. In this direction, in a country which needs stability for the economy and for the agitated international round, the elections are not a proposal, especially if one considers that it was never seen as a scandal at the earliest of the elections in question, but on the contrary it is seen as a scandal that the four-year-old era of the constitution is being used out of hand. The motion of censure as a parliamentary weapon works like a 'boomerag', since if it is not successful, it returns to the man who has unleashed it, charging him a political defeat and, in particular, the political strengthening of his reproach, i.e. his opponent, in this case by the Government. That's why the use of bomerang needs a lot of attention. The Civic Opposition did not show it and failed, bringing results that it did not expect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. He even ignored the fact that before the motion of censure was tabled the House approved the bill, clearly demonstrating its confidence in the government, so that rejection of its proposal is de facto legality. Wrong tactical or complete confusion? By linking the proposal of distrust to a national issue, the opposition presented the risk of splitting society at a critical moment and admitted that it can be identified, even unwittingly, with a bloody political perception that focuses on the cutting of heads. You heard yesterday. I want to believe we're not head hunters, but serious people. This also concerns the majority of Parliament. Either way, the government, as they all show, enjoys Parliament's confidence and will be ratified in order to continue its work by uniting society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the moments we are facing are historic for our country, our history and our national heritage. As a National Representation we are called upon to protect our Macedonia against the tragic choices of a government that shows in practice that the economic and political catastrophe of the country has no end and will have irreparable consequences for our national security in the long term. You are bringing an unacceptable agreement on which you celebrate without any shame. You literally stripped against the Skopje and gave them a name, identity and language, keeping as a fig sheet the designation "North". What does "North Macedonia" mean? Do you realize that this determination fuels the core of Skopje's alutism or does it not? Do you understand that we implicitly recognise their views about the "Aegean Macedonia and Pirin" or do you do so on purpose? Rather, the second is true if we consider Mr. Tsipras' dictionary in which he used the term "Hellenic Heritage". And I ask: what does it mean by the term 'Greek legacy'? The Macedonians aren't Greek? Is it diligent? Is that what you claim? Or do you want to reopen the capital of the Macedonian struggle and the Balkan wars? Because the South Skopje are treating the preamble of their constitution as the followers of the democracy of Krezevo, the short-sleeved state that was organized to counter the Ottoman yoke - Krusevo were then - and in the process they were transformed into vindicators of Macedonian identity to serve the great idealisms of Communist Yugoslavia. Are you playing this game? If that is the case, tell the Greek people. Apart from the name, in Article 1(3) of the Agreement, ‘Macedonian citizenship’ is clearly recognised, together with the designation ‘Citizen of Northern Macedonia’. And to make it clear, do you raise the subject of a 'Macedonian nation', part of which are citizens of 'North Macedonia'? This results, at least, from the text of the Agreement and the terms ‘Macedonian nationality and citizen’. Shame on you! I also come to the issue of language. In Article 1(3), a ‘Macedonian language’ is recognised by clarifying that it belongs to the South Slavic language group. And I ask: if it belongs to the South-Slavic languages, why don't you call it South-Slavic? Another feeder feature in order to feed the scalp. You, the government of Greece, are creating a new nation with guarantees, which will have full legitimacy to raise claims against its neighbours. You also take care to falsify history with the joint committees of Greece and Skopje, which will examine the change of school manuals and maps, in accordance with Article 8(5), in order to eliminate allutism. When did Greece manifest itself, ladies and gentlemen, incisive pursuits against Macedonia and we do not know that? Never! Why are you doing this? To interfere in our history and heritage? In fact, the agreement refers to archaeological and excavations findings. Everywhere there are archaeological findings of the empire of Alexander the Great and the Hellenistic period. I didn't see any Indians, no Afghans, no Egyptians, no Iranians saying he was a Macedonian! The Slavs, who came for more than a thousand years later in this region, from where do they draw legalization from using our name and legacy? From Tito's grave? In fact, Article 7(5) empowers them in substance and the right to determine themselves freely. Furthermore, you are making sure to police your creation, since Article 6 provides for the prohibition, discouragement and prevention by both parties of actions and activities that may undermine Sovietism, hostility, alutism and revision. And I ask: When did Greece cause Skopje? Or do you want to melt our people and erase the story from our memory? In order to call Fascist anyone who disagrees with you, like the rally you blamed us on those who participated? And finally, I come to the question of the accession of this state to the European Union and NATO. It is planned to promote their integration with the implementation of concrete steps of the Agreement. You're actually giving them the key, without getting any guarantee for anything. And for me it is extremely likely that they will enter NATO without making any substantial changes. We hear from the government just before and from the present Minister for Commercial Shipping, Mr Kurubli, the argument that "Skopje" says, Minister, "have been recognised as Macedonia in the past twenty-five years by more than a hundred states, including Russia, America, etc." And why haven't they joined NATO, Minister? Why are they negotiating with Elladitsa, what do they want with us? Have you heard something, Mr. Kurubli, about veto Karamanlis in Bucharest in 2008, does he say something to you? Do you not know that without approval and agreement with Greece, either the European Union or NATO can go ahead? Do you not know that the key to the economic and political survival of this state, with the huge problems that it faces within it with the Albanian ethnic minority and the Muslim religious minority, can only be resolved through Greece, Mr Kurubli? And do you now come and give them the key and at the expense of our national interests? Because that's what you did with this deal. In so many economic exchanges you hope so desperately are you? Colleagues and colleagues, today's motion of censure aims to prevent the surrender of our national heritage and the counterfeiting of our history, which will jeopardise our national security. The government does not have the political and moral legitimacy to sign such an agreement, since the ANELs and Mr Kammens have said they will vote against it. And I am sorry, Mrs Kollia, that you are here right now, but any Member who votes against the motion of censure against the government is arming Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias to sign this agreement with all that that implies. All the rest that you "false" Ministers and government officials on former Prime Ministers' commitments on the issue of Skopje are meaningless. Never did any Greek Prime Minister, let alone the New Democracy, commit to signing Greece on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u376	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u377	All right, I'm telling you to get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u378	Okay, but they've all spoken twice a year, and I'm asking you a half a minute. When, then, the Greek Prime Minister did not hand over our national heritage nor proceeded to dividends. They still echo our ears: "Macedonia is one and it's Greek!" He said the national ruler Constantine Karamanlis. "Macedonia will save Greece," said the late Christoulos. "No" said Costas Karamanlis in Bucharest in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall read out a statement from Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos, President of the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, addressed to the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi: 'Mr President, In view of the statement made by Mr Constantine Barbarousi, who is off-line on the Golden Dawn, I decided, with the agreement of the entire Group of the Party's parliamentary group, the following: Mr Constantine Barbarousi is outside the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn. Yours sincerely, Nikolaos Michaloliakos Chairman of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u380	Also, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Monday 18 June 2018, along with which the topical and urgent questions of Monday 11 June 2018 will also be discussed, as well as the reports - questions. Oh, I'm sorry. Topical and urgent debate on Monday 18 June 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1800/12-2018 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christou Manta to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Global blood donor day and National Center for Blood." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1804/12-2018 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jasona Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Revelations on CEDEFOP, which set out the head of the Ministry of Health". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1805/12-2018 topical question by MP Artis of the New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Illustration picture presents the General Hospital of Artas". "B" Topical and urgent debate on Monday 11 June 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1744/5-6-2018 topical question by MP Kosanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theoktou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Reopening of the State minors of Kosanis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1743/4-6-2018 topical question of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Award of grace to criminal sentences in order to appoint or obtain permission to pursue a profession". 3. The 1732/30-5-2018 topical question by Congressman I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on "About the criminals and nationally harmful behaviours of the Mayor of Thessaloniki Yiannis Boutaris". 4. The Question No 1747/5-6-2018 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Lack of gamma-globin preparations". 5. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Minister for Health, dated 1728/30-5-2018. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1754/5-6-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The administrative segregation of the Dimotiko Hospital requires that it be shielded with personal and equipment". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1729/30-5-2018 topical question by Congressman I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forum capacity of the Greeks". 3. The 1731/30-5-2018 topical question by MP MEP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the irreversible in the Armed Forces". 4. Under No 1706/25-2018, a topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Sea fish keeps the Ministry of Finance on the public debt management contract. the investment bank Rothschild’. 5. The Question No 1699/24-2018 by the Independent Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What are the losses of the state of smuggling cigarettes? " 6. The 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1538/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 8. The 1539/23-44-2018 topical question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams on a party course of the JRC". 9. The 1518-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the problems of 4 million borrowers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 5175-17-2018 of the First Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Greek Parliament, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Health, on "Sales of medicines and internationally controlled substances on the Internet". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister of Health, dated 3195/5-2-2018, on "Following the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centres of the prefecture with medical staff". 3. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The cases of tax evasion which have been filed on the way from ILO to ADP and the government's responsibility for loss of revenue". 4. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASO. - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The requirement of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) to sign the 3rd Memorandum loan agreement from the supreme “Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A.”. Mr. Cryazides now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President, and I would ask you to understand. Ladies and gentlemen, after a circle in secret months, without the necessary prior information from Parliament and the state actors, the government announced at night the coming conclusion of shamefulness over the national interests of an agreement with Skopje, an agreement - 'extension', an agreement completely humiliating and insulting for the history, the sacred and loyal of our nation. The government of targeted propaganda, for no reason and no reason, has chosen to give the northern neighbour the sacred name of Macedonia and not only that, but by signing it to recognise, for the first time in historical times, Macedonian ethnicity and language. The whole dangerous text of the agreement is coming today to justify the open and irresponsible struggle of the neighbors to steal a name and a historic status, which does not belong to them. The false structure of "Macedonism" through the signature of SYRIZA and the indirect support of ANELs takes, unfortunately, flesh and bones after a hundred years, for which you bear the historical responsibility in full. This agreement is the culmination of a humiliating defeat against a battle you have never really given. It is the means that, if anything, it legitimizes, validates and implements what has never been politically achieved by the once-in-a-lifetime Slavokedon communist front and by Tito. You award, gentlemen of SYRIZA, a falsification of Macedonian identity, status, conscience, language, to a people who do not belong historically, maintaining, legitimising and raising the danger to our national interests, the idea of "Macedonism". Governors, you've been revealed today. What they have said and say from the Step is several of your Members and the arguments, which have been heard by them, prove that SYRIZA with the non-existent negotiation he has broke through, has done nothing but implement his policy agenda and the permanent positions on this issue. Don't exterminate yourself. That's the reality. Since yesterday I feel that I am in the Skopje Parliament, and I have been in favour of Skopje MEPs and not Greeks of the Greek Parliament. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't exterminate yourself. I stressed that in front of you. I would remind you that what you are calling for to justify your position is not mentioned by VMRO. I'm afraid so. That's the hard reality. I recall this text of the 2008 SYRIZA proclamation of SYRIZA officials, saying that there is no national interest at stake if the neighbouring country is allowed to maintain the constitutional name. They professed in a celebrity that they would not let the imaginary Macedonians poison Greek society with war chaos and further undermine peace and solidarity with the peoples of the Balkans. One of the signatories to this text was, among other things, - and let us not forget - my compatriot, a government MP, who, from the day before yesterday, leads my fellow citizens to the police in order to 'download' the announcements they made to protest. That didn't even happen in the junta. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I would also like to remind you that, as early as 2008, officials have been talking about the recognition of the 'Macedonian ethnicity', not only within but outside Macedonia. And SYRIZA's youth spoke in 2007 about the self-evident right of neighbors to use the name "Macedonia", stressing that this historical name corresponds to their consciences and that Greece cannot and must not cancel this international reality. Is any different from what you agreed to? Apparently, no. Nowadays, ladies and gentlemen, you are from northern Greece, the bones of the Macedonians and not only of them, but also of those who have over the years removed the intensified effort to alter the nature of our Macedonian and its history - which you are now handing over to the scepticism of Skopje - which is not going to happen all the time. I have a few words to say about my area. It may be well known to many, but not everyone, and that is why with light heart some may vote in favour of the assignment of our name, recognizing this south-Slavish idiom of the Skopje, this Balkan salad as a Macedonian nation and Macedonian language. Patriots and patriots, how can we close our eyes forward to the greatness of Amphipolis, the Macedonian graves of Drama, the Potamos, Stavroupoli, Galicia, the Cordylia, Thassos and these Philippis and assign them to the Skopje? How can we forgive the robbery of the cultural and religious treasures of the oldest monastery of Europe, Panagia, the twenty-six of the Pangea and Saint John the Prodromos of Serres? Dear, Minister of Macedonia, you are giving Tsipras a passport today to go to the Prespes. How can we dismiss the struggles and sacrifices of Metropolitan Chrysostom Dramas for the rescue of the area from the neck of the coyotes and all those who insisted on keeping the area free? How can we forget the sacrifices of the lads, such as Balavanes in Petrusa, Captain Tsaras in Pangaios, Captain Duke in Minocchio, Captain Metropolitan in Serres, Kovokides in Kalithea and so many other Macedonians in the region? How can we not be reverent in the face of the bust of the twenty-year-old Armen Kuptsio who hung him in Drama's square, why did he remain faithful to the idea of Macedonia's freedom, for which the popular muse even today sings: 'The blood of the carpet for freedom'? How not to light monumental candles in a few days to innocent victims of Doxato’s first destruction, why did others follow, which on June 30, 1912, a day of enthusiasm for the release of the area after five hundred and forty years of bitter slavery, experience ruin and destruction? How can we ease the pain of the hostages in the death otters of Kitsovo in 1916-1918, where 90% of them have been crippled, without a trillion in their mass graves to date? How can we ask widows and orphans to forget their people, innocent victims of the sad events of September 1941, in the villages and town of Drama? How can we call on the poor dourbits to forget hunger, wood, torture, the conditions of forced labour, to which they were subjected during the occupation? And that's all! Every family in my country has to offer incense to its ancestors because the people of the region have given their blood for their freedom and for maintaining their nationality. In my family, I have victims in every race, even in him. So it's impossible for me to follow your thoughts. I do not invoke all of this indulgence or re-engagement. Not, particularly today, which I would like to believe that neighbouring peoples are on the way to reconciliation and good cooperation. But whoever forgets his story is sure to live it again and to avoid it, we must remember and learn from the past. Because whoever forgets, gets lost, only breaks whoever remembers and tears out! Because Macedonia is far from found by events, struggles and struggles to preserve its Greekity in the struggles. With tears and blood he maintained and rescued the lively Greek ideas, he made an anthem of the "Blue dove" and went and will go to the peninsula. The people of Macedonia, the Macedonians, and certainly not all of us are dismissing our history. 'These verdicts of persuasive people' will not allow unjust designs of diplomatic living rooms, where some will willingly accept alienation. Macedonia will not be a prostitute. They are and will remain faithful to their ancestors' ancestors. They will resist every task force in their land. "And oh! You little land, with the tranquil story, don't put your trust in Slav and Turk, don't always despise and oversee the stranger, and dare. You must dare. Holy Savior the daring, as our national poet, Kostis Palamas, points out. And to the few shreds, because there are always Nightmares who will find themselves in the vortex of their ideological windmill, their unscrupulous ideals and consent to the creation of the assignment of their inalienable rights, the Macedonian people stress that "Macedonia is once and for all Greek!" Governmenters, the Greek people do not accept the agreement you are about to sign. Our people are not willing to deliver what has been protected by blood and which, through your forthcoming signature, you have launched to give to the Skopje. In view of the above, and in view of the obvious disharmony between the will of the Greek people and your actions, it is imperative that, for reasons of fundamental political equilibrium, decency and national responsibility, you put this agreement before it is signed, in popular approval either by national elections or by referendum. The democratic state has rules and principles that everyone must respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u382	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been talking 11 minutes. They expect another hundred more colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u383	And the government today, in view of the declared refusal of ANELs and Panos Kammenos, personally, not to support the agreement in question, because it has legally lost the declared one. For this reason, please do not proceed with signing an agreement on which you do not have parliamentary or popular legitimacy. Because it will be a national treason! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u386	Why, Mr. Xydakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u387	My colleague Mr. Kyriazides mentioned a fellow Member from Drama making complaints about running to the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u388	I'm here, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u389	Two minutes, please, Mr. Karayannides. Previously, with the incident with Mr Barbarousis, already deleted from Mr Michaloliakos, we agreed to follow a decent, constitutional and democratic way of dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u390	Previously, the Minister for Foreign Affairs called Mrs Bakoyannis "fucking". What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u392	Please, Mr Cryazides, I will remind you of something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u393	Were you here? You weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u394	Please, I was here when Mr Barbarousis spoke. Mr President, I would like to make a clarification, to speak as human beings and not as a herd.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u395	We agreed before the procedure was with lower tone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, both Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Loverdakis and I and all the representatives have reminded us that this was potentially the case - and the prosecutor was indicted - a challenge for crime by Mr Barbarousi. It was also accepted by the representative of the New Democracy. I said, personally, because yesterday there were high tons of threats, dramas, that we are not enemies here, we are political opponents, and we compete or we conflict on the basis of arguments. I will say one last thing, because it concerns all Members. Personalisation, threats and koruna are about the harmless who have published all the lists by e-mail and personal phone calls of MPs online and all night and all day...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u397	All right, let's not bring it up. Let's get through. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u398	I would ask the Vice-Presidents to show restraint. The episode with the deleted Golden Erection, I repeat, shows the way and the limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u399	You're right, so we'll keep going. If anything goes away from us, at any rate, do not make a point of the Chamber. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u400	I will try to finish in a minute, Mr President. I have no intention of ejecting the conversation to any other heights. But when they're lying about my face, I can't answer. What Mr. Cryazides said about me is false. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I didn't carry anyone to the police. The police are dealing with issues when on facebook the members of the New Democracy in Drama say they'll put a bullet in my head. That's what they wrote. This is what I have published in a press release and I have published it with a name when members of the New Democracy write: "If you dare, come to Drama, we are waiting for you." So that's what I said. I have not carried anyone to the police, and the police are taking care of it when it considers that the life of any heretic - whoever is present - is at risk from the threats. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u402	But why? Are we going to open a new circle now? You'll answer and he'll answer you. Is this the job we're doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u403	He said I was lying. Imagine the police calling people to plead repentance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u404	Good, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u405	Mr President, is it possible to say these things to put a bullet in the head?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u406	Lies? Do you understand that it's a lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u407	Mr Balaura, please strengthen the procedure as long as you can! Come on! Now let's give Mrs. Kollia the floor, so that we can relax the spirits. Mrs. Kollia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I have been personally provoked, I will not go into the matter of responding to personal peaks. I just want to remind colleagues in the New Democracy that I was in the third place, in the fourth, when Costas Karamanlis announced that success...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u409	Say about Tsipra, you and Tsipra are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u410	I'll go to Tsipras too, I'll be there. You want us not to tell you about Karamanlis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u411	Caramanlis rope. You've all become "caramanelists"! Damn it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u412	We are 'caramanlicans', you do not know what you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u413	"Caramanlic" with Tsipras is not done, Mrs. Collia! "Caramanlic" with the Left in power is not done, Mrs. Collia!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u414	It's getting fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u415	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u416	Patriots with the ‘Karamanli’ principles.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u417	Now the conflict begins who is "caramanic" and who is not? But please, ladies and gentlemen. Please very much. Keep going, Mrs. Collia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, clearly and without footnotes, we Independent Greeks as a purely patriotic movement remain firm in our decision not to support the proposal in the name of the country of Skopje, which will in any way include the name of Macedonia, when this agreement comes to be ratified in the Greek Parliament. We will not allow anyone to falsify our history. For us and for me, the name of Macedonia is not assigned, it is neither a complex one nor any designations and that is why we will not vote for any agreement of this kind, although whenever it comes to a vote in the House, as I have said. For us and for me personally, Macedonia is Greece and Greece is Macedonia. That's all for us. Straight talk, clean and clean. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing a motion of censure against the government, but we are discussing the proposal of mistrust of the leadership of the New Democracy and of the obvious and behind the scenes. And it is clear that this proposal for distrust of counter-population is not made by patriotic responsibility, but as a tactical move to come out of the difficult position that is today itself and those who are passionately covered. And this difficult position is defined in particular by the fight against corruption and interlocutory. We will reasonably expect our Refugee brother to join us, along with justice. But it is no coincidence that he is taking every opportunity to overthrow this work that is finally completed. This government is a co-operation government, a government of national and patriots, two partners that have begun and are in different ideological sites, different starting points, but they manage despite the great differences, despite the difficulties, whatever is happening, to maintain their principles and, on the other hand, to cooperate for the good of our country, our people, as democracy demands. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is what frightens you and shocks you, that a government of cooperation, a government of national and patriotic objectives based on a programme agreement structured in two axes, takes the country out of the memoranda, effectively combats strife and corruption. Nowadays, you have chosen only to disorientate the Greek people from tabling your unfaithful proposal of distrust. And it is malicious, because it was submitted by the Anti-Population in order to judge and hide from the Greek people that the country is increasing its territory by extending our territorial waters through the recognition of EEZ and the exploitation of the underwater wealth, the complexion and the interconnectors are in the final straight to appear before the courts, tourism gallops, unemployment declines by reaching the best level of the last 15 years, the reduction of the debt is at the foot of the pillars with the characteristic of the recent disbursement of one billion and the re-release of the capital controls. The motion of censure was tabled by the Opposition and for its own internal party reasons to disorientate and turn the publicity lights away from the CEDEFOP and the "silent" from it, the "NOVARTIS" and its servants, offshore and its owners, the party sea-loans, the sale of ATE and its side effects in the agricultural sector, even today, the excellent and supposedly excellent, the "SIEMENS" and its protectors. And you come today to look at your personal interest by ignoring the national, using the Golden Dawn all this time by raising it and bringing us today's phenomena. Are you putting forward a motion of censure calling for what, ladies and gentlemen? Break the course of exiting the crisis and returning to the miserable and hideous yesterday? May we allow those who have repulsorily repelled Greek wealth production and have now been tied up with unresponsive documents so that they will again be released to cover what they have not been able to do? In the philology of the chair, which you're giving us, we're confronting the need for responsibility. And if, as you suggest, ladies and gentlemen, we today did not vote against the motion of censure, if we were to throw the government away tomorrow, if you were a first party and were always in cooperation with another, what would you be voting on? No one has mentioned what name you would like for this state for which, unfortunately, bad manoeuvres and difficulties it has had in recent years, in recent decades, our homeland has been tolerated to be called 'previously Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia'. So Greece regains its head with courage and hope and we will not let anyone block it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer, if I may, to something more emotional and more personal. Having the honor of being Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, I have fought...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u419	South Macedonia!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u420	That doesn't honor you. So that is the anti-national you are doing, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u421	He doesn't honor you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u422	I would therefore like to tell you that as Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, which unfortunately some parties from here now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u423	South Macedonia. You don't know that well. Get used to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u424	I'll never say it south. You say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u425	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Hold on a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u426	So when I have been responsible for this village ministry for three, and a half years with the confidence of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos I have also tried with the help of God.... [[Noise - controversy by the wings of SYRIZA and New Democracy]] That's enough! That's enough! Show some respect! Mr President, you are finally imposing a little on order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u427	Every three and a little while I stop and call for them to be quiet. You know, it's not easy at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u428	I would like to tell you, therefore, that as the Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, I have tried to honour this position. I have tried - and I have managed, to a large extent, to represent Macedonians and Thraces in the Greek Parliament and, where necessary, in any country, with whom I have dealt with people, with whomever ones. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But I have to face up to positions even now, obviously intentional, which undermine the role and status of this historic Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace, seeking to abolish it even. Are they friends or enemies of Macedonia? And I stress for once that the role of the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace must be upgraded, supported and armored by institutional and administrative forces, so that in the new era it can play the important role in the religious, cultural, economic and social life of Macedonia and Thrace, as well as throughout the country. Macedonia is, then, Greece. Greece is Macedonia. I repeat, for once, that for us and for me personally, for us the Independent Greeks, the name of Macedonia is not assigned, it is neither a complex one, nor a geographical, time or other, and that is why we will not vote for any agreement of this kind when it comes to Parliament. We are stable, then, in our place. We support the course of Greece's exit from the crisis. We support the efforts of our people who, at last, catch a place to make our country stronger, more respected internationally. We will not, however, let any opportunity be lost. We will not let the sacrifices of the Greek people go. We support the government, we support the expectation of every citizen of this country to be democratically governed. We must allow justice to complete its work, we must deliver a Greek free from the insurance cord of the memoranda, and that is why we support the government and its work until it is completed. So I am waiting for you to join the Independent Greeks who are responsible for defending Greece's interests. In this way, democratically and nationally responsiblely, no agreement that is not in the interest of the Greek people can pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u431	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u432	I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative following the speech of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u433	Do you want anything specific? I say this to help the process, because there are too many colleagues who are waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u434	I will not comment on what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u435	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the ministers have the special procedure - and rightly so - of the Rules of Procedure and the procedure that we have decided to have a good time to speak, because they express the government. And especially in this procedure, which is a motion of censure against the Government, the ministers must obviously have the time to support the government's positions. No one disputes - and it results from the content of almost all the speeches, I am here this morning - that the top theme of this motion of censure is related to the agreement which has been initialled and will be signed with FYROM. The Minister, who just came out of the Step, took the floor and spoke with the Minister in time - and rightly so - to suggest to the National Representation as Minister contrary to what the government says. This is a degeneration of the parliamentary procedure. What has happened is against decades of experience in a parliamentary culture. It is a good idea - rightly so - to propose to the House that it does not consider it right and vote on what the government is proposing. You're unprecedented!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u437	Colleague, the political crisis was made by the State Secretary. Either you agree or you don't agree. Do we have to stop to judge this? Mr. Publicsakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace Maria Kollia - Tsarouha had a unique opportunity to become the heroine of all Greekism. She took over to defend herself through her ministerial office Macedonia and Thrace. But in your day, Mrs. Charuha, northern Macedonia is born. If you quit, I think you're offering home service. I'm coming to our point. I read: "Our country has been dragged into an act of historical defeat and ethnic decline with unforeseen consequences and consequences for our country and our people. At the same time, the will of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people was trampled." These were said by the huge, ours, all, by the modern Greek, by Mickey Theodorakis. You have decided in a period of economic recession, ladies and gentlemen, and other problems, to put all national issues on the table, without a plan, without having the agreement of counter-population, which you are simply ignoring. In particular, for the purpose of this matter, a major national issue, which concerns the foundations of Greece, you have negotiated for yourself, in the absence of the people, in the absence of the House. You could seek a common place, create a single national front, negotiate with enhanced power as the government of all the Greeks, as you are due to and as provided for in our Constitution. Instead, you negotiated as a minority party, full of guilt and ideas and reached a shameful agreement. Your only goal was to break down and divide the Civic Opposition to give the "friend of life" to your co-pilot. You have been rushing to close the Skopje arrogantly, an issue that has troubled our foreign policy for decades just for one reason, because the previous governments have not accepted and have not agreed to include the term "Macedonia" in the name of the neighbouring country, because they have not recognized and agreed to any Macedonian ethnic and Macedonian language for our northern neighbours. And you, the most willing rulers of post-multipleism, make major national retreats and give them all: name, Macedonian ethnicity, Macedonian language. This recognition is the root of scepticism. You delivered all the negotiating weapons your predecessors inherited you. You voluntarily unarmed the country. There is no doubt that this is a disgraceful agreement, as I said before, for our national interests, which will cause, in future, painful consequences for Hellenism, for the nation and for northern Greece, because you have forgotten our history or read it unorthodoxly. Ion Dragoumis said that the lungs of the Greek nation are Macedonia. Alas, if it doesn't go free. We Thraces support and complement that Thrace is the head of the nation. We live in the neural and historical region of Thrace, and because of increased sensitivity we sense that our national interests are being damaged. You took the dangerous initiative to agree on your own with the Skopje Prime Minister and, in fact, in secret from the Greek Parliament, from the parties of opposition. You're running fast, you say, and they're chasing you. If you're not being chased, why are you running for a matter involving others? If you're being chased, you can tell us. You'll have our support. You did not have the political legitimacy to go ahead with this agreement and put the country into constitutional and political irregularity. The principle of declared was blatantly violated. That is why we have insisted, from the outset, that the Prime Minister should bring the proposal to the House and that he has the parliamentary majority before committing the country. You preferred to indulge in the will of the Greek people who were protesting at every corner of the country, without any party identity, spontaneously, that Macedonia is Greek and does not give anyone its name, symbols, identity and not just. You chose to follow a divisive line consciously, forgetting that this issue is about the dignity and soul of the Greeks and they don't have micropolitical games. You must know that, by retreating from the fixed Greek position for Skopje, as expressed in 1992 in the Council of Political Heads of State under the relentless then, Constantine Karamanlis, you are actually opening the appetite for other regions of the country. It has not been a long time since the Turkish officials made extravagant references to the territory of Thrace. You open a ferry leaving the path to irreversible national injuries. And now you come with courage and move our hand, doing history lessons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your co-pilot, like the State Secretary, said they would vote against your agreement when you bring it to the House. But they support your Government in the proposed motion of censure on the agreement itself. This is indeed a peculiarity and you have put out all the constitutionalists. Each of you is asked to take responsibility for history, but also for his family. That is the point of the motion of censure we have tabled: to name their historic responsibilities to those who are voting against the proposal of the New Democracy, saying 'yes' to this extremely damaging agreement for Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u439	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u440	I'm closing, Mr. President, in a minute. If you vote in favour, which is in the interests of the country, then through the national agreement there will be a factor that we all have to defend. I hope on Saturday night you'll look brave defenders of homeland. Mostly, the MPs in Northern Greece, as if you vote positively, sign with the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Kotzias and Mr Kammenos an agreement that creates irreversible consequences for our country and implements in practice the mutilation of our neighbours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u441	Mr. Purchass, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this cycle will be closed with Mr Loverdos, Mr Flamouraris and Mr Mario Georgiadis. I tell you that there can be no further change in this regard. This cycle will close with the three colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u442	But when did Mr. Flambourris come?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u443	Mr. Flabourris was told he'd speak now, Mr. Loverdos. It's okay. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of the "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, nine foreign visitors. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Flambury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u444	The government had decided - and you were all aware - on Friday that there would be a substantial debate on the agreement, which had been concluded with our northern neighbours. That would be a sober debate, which would be essentially and could really be such an exchange of views, which would help with the necessary consensus, so that we can proceed with such an agreement. Unfortunately, however, I am obliged to say that this sober discussion of some forces within the Civilian Opposition Party, some of the forces - in introductory terms - did not want it and imposed on the party of the Officerial Response to testify in order to make the debate more intense and more competitive, which - in my assessment - had to be of a different nature. And so, on the basis of this, we are actually living from yesterday's parliamentary performance with a directorial responsibility, of course, of the Officers of Anti-Population, with a well-known result. They are data and what is heard and, above all, the result is a given. Whatever is said, whatever pressure there is, which - in my opinion - is also inexcusable against the officials and members of the Independent Greeks, you must know that it has a completely opposite effect to what you are seeking. At the same time, I would like to address the other wings of this House and say that they need to assess the situation that we have been living since yesterday. I would like to address some of the wings that are on the democratic arch and, in my opinion, must not be lured from the anti-government fanaticism they have or from their opposition to NATO and the European Union and incorporate within their word a argument which they would not use in other cases. Because on this basis, we have the result that we have really lived from this side - and we have also deleted - that nationalism, populism, great confrontations with history are developing. And even through it he has his honorary and Kostas Kavafis with the great "Yes" and the great "No". On the other hand, it is us that it is an attempt to get out of the memorials, which we know will not be wanted by any parties that have governed and led the country to this difficult period. At the same time, I would like to point out that it is very sad, while we are trying to get the country out of the nets of this need, from the nets that our current prosecutors have got it, tied it up at the same time and in five to succeed, and those responsible for the bankruptcy of the country investing - let me say - not with great honesty to the sensitivities and anger of some of our fellow citizens, by misinforming and distorting the data. And while we manage, having to take measures and follow policies that we have not dreamed - and we are not making any mistakes about them at all - the genuine followers and zeals of these policies manifest an outrageous bitterness that is not in our place, as if these margins were not in the past, but it turns out to be quite a few. The agreement we have before us, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has battled, in cooperation with the Prime Minister of the country, who has received every care, so that even the national interest - in his narrow limits - is not at all at all at stake, is an agreement which is nothing that is blocked and retreats in practice, in order to guarantee every guarantee. And that's what they blame. It is an agreement that solves a chronic diplomatic issue in the country, but it also relieves a deep wound of people and places on the road to peaceful coexistence and cooperation. It's a deal that decompresses our northern borders. This agreement, along with the exit from the memorials, is now becoming petty and vengeful, a tool, a desperate occasion for opposition. I would therefore have no reason to speak today, nor to repeat the benefits of the contested agreement, nor to return to the great fight of our Government to stop destruction and restore the country to the economic, social and development orbit, apart from one reason, the horror that I feel in the face of irresponsible, criminal supply of nationalism, the counterfeiting of history and the conscious denial of reality. This is a very dangerous and very serious phenomenon, which goes beyond the specific parliamentary moment of a motion of censure, which was from the outset intended to sabotage and which will have been forgotten tomorrow or tomorrow. That is why I have two words to say to some of the Members of this Chamber and to those who continue their family profession and especially to those of all the political areas of the democratic arch that have entered politics - at least in their public life - are moved by the principles and values of enlightenment and Western urban democracy, the Europeans, moderate reformers, the supporters of economic freedom and cooperation and the enthusiasts of individual rights, those who believe in the stability of borders, the isolation of fundamentalism and the restriction of religious fanaticism, those who are in favour of peaceful forces, dialogue and social symbols. You have no reason, ladies and gentlemen, to go back to extreme right-wing positions for micro-political purposes of dubious political survival. Because life has proved that when the voter is trained at a trend, he ultimately picks out his original expression and not the one who is being ambiguous. In other words, you are not even working for yourself, but for the most conservative layers and the most reactionary faces of your parties, who have unfortunately taken a head on some of them. And that is your political self-help. But what's going on is even worse. Such an extremist national-paralleled speech is being evoked to the Greek people to all those who have lived before and know well that this situation has led the country to the brink of destruction, with the destruction of democracy and individual democratic rights. The same goes for young people and young people who are in difficulty, who can coexist, to be in love, to compete. Those who have not experienced any situations, but have heard them or read them, do not have to listen to poison with the bucket, because that has been done for three years, but unfortunately this three-day is overrun. Fortunately, people don't listen to you, they have experience, they understand that everything is happening because of your inner-party dead ends. It does not follow you 'in the bad way', which the poet says. A report by Mr. Hatzidakis that he said this morning about Constantine Karamanlis. After the constant resistance of the Greek people and especially of young people, with many victims, the Republic was restored and in this case Constantine Karamanlis was effectively involved. This contribution must give you a very serious concern about the attitude of your party today and, above all, concern you where your current attitude may lead. So, clear words: Our Government has been attempting since 2015 to transform Europe's correlations from austerity policies to more politically friendly to the people and to liberate the country from the Memorandums. We already see attempts to catch a place. We have chosen the European perspective and the painful path of the memoranda. We have done everything for three years to heal wounds and deal with these barbaric policies. Now we are going to light, very difficult, with the top of the migratory crisis, which we have faced and continue to deal with together with our people, without haggling humanism and solidarity, with extroversion, multi-sided, and from the result, rather, skillful diplomacy that has exploited our geopolitical advantages. Today we demand not only a better tomorrow as an equal European country, but also a leading role in the region. This is what I can assure you that it is not from a metropolitan or because we suddenly thought we were becoming a metropolitan country. We're trying because we got to know the connections and rules of the game. This very simply means that if you see the future of your country in Europe, you are claiming a democratic and philosophical Europe. If you defend peace, you demand border stability and good neighbourliness. If you care about people where the land is, you accept their historical peculiarities. If you have nervous neighbors, you try to join a context that limits their nervousness, knowing and safeguarding your own boundaries, your own borders and your own capabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the great 'no' to which you are calling, you must tell nationalism, patriotism and the attempted division. The great "yes" must tell the Greekity, which was formulated by Isocrates in 380 BC. as synonym of education and wisdom and has been disconnected from the random event of origin. As for the Chief of Officership, I have one thing to say to him: let him consider his patronage either as a tragedy or as a prank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Minister. My colleague Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in favour of the motion of censure against the current government is a one-way road for us. Some of you in the majority have ironed out the mood of the opposition parties to vote for it, but I must say, without wanting to be misunderstood by anyone, how to make such an opinion declares ignorance of the basic rules of parliamentism, because governments very rarely end their way from proposals of distrust. This does not mean, however, that these proposals lack political and practical importance and utility. Their meaning and their bet is to prove to the people every time that the governments had to fall, but that's not because there's a cemented - as is called in the theory - a majority in the House that supports it. I think that's exactly your case. Sometimes, living in the Chamber, I understand that it misleads you of the fact that you are more in the Chamber, without you being able to realize what is happening in the Chamber when it does not communicate directly with the area outside the Chamber, that is, when it is a majority here, it is a minority. We are therefore voting in favour of the motion of censure and it could not be done otherwise, because in our opinion in the history of post-multipleism, no government has combined such an expression of demagogicism and nationalism, such as SYRIZA - ANEL, with so much government ineffectiveness. In these three-and-a-half years that we have been in opposition and we oppose you, my opposition has been tough, but it has been fair, at least that's what I was trying to do. I call on him today to be self-evident. None of you, however, can - particularly those of you who are members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence - argue that, despite all the conflicts and what we have experienced from you, our attitude as a party, but also my own, has been calm and sober and constructive. Your ministers say that, not just me. It was our attitude and will, above all, remain patriotic. patriotism always supports his country, while governments only when they deserve it, has Mark Twain said. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you should appreciate this responsible attitude for three and a half years and make use of it to create a wider understanding. However, since the beginning of your project, you have chosen a single arrogant path, without any attempt to create a united climate with the other political forces, a path that you planned and implemented in the early stages, obeying your micro-political and micro-participatory purposes. And the worst part of all is that it turns out that, when you were dealt with in this great subject, you began with abundant ignorance and full contempt for its geopolitical dimensions. I have one proof of what happened with the Prime Minister's handling of the name 'Iliden Macedonia', how the public debate took place, resulting from information received from the media from FYROM and from Bulgaria. This proves that your theoretical and geopolitical tools were very limited. And I would like to stress, as a suffice, a repetitive phrase by many government officials and above all by the Foreign Minister: 'We have received the weight of the sceptic problem'. You should have known that most - if not all - the foreign policy issues in the country are historically deep and therefore. It is regrettable and inconceivable that a politician should consider every national issue that happens to have roots behind his own term of office. The skeptic issue, this peak - because it would be heavy to call it poison - has a historical and multi-wave course. Anyone who watched Mrs. Anagnostopoulos yesterday understands that. And you who applauded it must have received a message about how far back the problems that the country still has in its foreign policy today. Let's go from the end of the 19th century to the establishment of the Bulgarian Exarchus from the sultan firm of 1870 to the date - the 1991 milestone, where Federal Yugoslavia is dismantled. If anyone sees what happened between these years, he will have to record the very serious events in the late 19th century and in the beginning of the 20th, the Balkan Wars, what happened in the Middle War, in World War II and in particular the Civil War, the Balkan Pact and so on. So this issue is spreading over at least three centuries and, as our Greek diplomats say - sometimes with tension, sometimes with less intensity or even implicitly - the effort from the Skopje to remind us of the existence of this problem and the agenda - of the agenda, as we say - of their demands. This historic sequence for this peak, as I described it, which since 1991 has been known to the young Greeks, must be appreciated as well - for anyone who understands, of course - a popular diplomacy. This composes a problem with special weight, which touches on Greek society and on people, but also creates a matter of foreign policy and diplomacy. This special weight you underestimated at first, hence the arrogant statements in December that we will also solve this problem, as if you had solved nothing else. However, in any case, Mr Amanatidis from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is here and what he has heard from this Ministry is that you will resolve this as well. You proceeded on your own without knowing that the people stood toward you and stood for three reasons. I want to be honest. Firstly, some of the emotions of patriotism, secondly, some for political reasons, because they do not want your Government, the Tsipras - Kammenos and thirdly, from a thought that, well or bad, shapes people and says "hey, not the Skopje, after the adventures of these last eight years". When you understood that you were on your own and with the world across, you changed your attitude and asked for support from the Opposition, but sometimes in no way productive, but barbaric and blackmailing, which, of course, did not pass. I want to be precise about what I'm saying. In the Great Week, the Minister for Foreign Affairs informs us in detail - the truth - that has emerged in the development of the problem and in the details that have been presented sincerely. The agreement has positive elements. From the names Nimic suggested, he's chosen to be the best. Also, the agreement has guarantees. However, I would like to point out in advance, firstly, that we have a Zafe from there, which is the best case in the decades of our confrontation with FYROM and, on the other hand, since the 2000s, a very good environment at diplomatic level, not in commercial matters, which is shaped in favour of Greece. These came out in your hands. But let's go and see the negatives that we're not going to take the responsibility of supporting you. I begin at the outset by expressing myself as a representative, a patriotic, but also nationalism - I said this morning on the occasion of the Golden Dawn - as well as ethnicity, phenomena that characterise some and some of the forces of today's majority. I would point this out for your proposal, as I was given the opportunity to say, taking the floor after Mrs Kollia, Minister of Macedonia and Thrace, who came here and spoke against the agreement in a motion of censure against the government as Minister. That's chocky! Because of the ANAL disagreement, the almost inexplicable - I do not have time - rules of the global parliamentary form of the democratic culture are being violated. Governments operate unanimously. You might disagree. If you disagree and stay, you have to take responsibility for decisions. The vulnerabilities have been presented here today. Of course, the opposition has rushed to give such an example on a smaller level - much smaller, obviously - with a party that says that it will support the agreement, but is voting against the government. Contrary to seriousness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for a small tolerance. Problems beyond what concerns the political council: firstly, there is a development that goes beyond Greece and FYROM is related to the UN. There's no reference to the deal. I hope that the framework is defined given that Russia exists in the Security Council. I have a chance here to say that we are talking about Russia, the Western Balkans and a country that wants to join NATO. That's the big deal. But we are one of those who shares the view that Russia is a problem. Your own powers, which you are relying on, are not certain that in their entirety - not to say otherwise - they do not share this concern. You create a need for Greece for which you are going to solve a problem, but you do not share the problem of sufficient risk. These arguments are fascinated by each other. Are you in agreement with this kind of political approach? Is Russia a problem? What do you think of this, especially the ANLLs? Second indent: Articles 1 and 7 of the Agreement. We have citizenship and language arrangements. The Greek position on alkali is overturned. You are saying that you are removing the albuminalism - I have heard the Prime Minister - but we are telling you that you are entrepreneurizing it. The fine letters the Prime Minister took advantage of are not those which determine the fate of implementing an agreement. I refer to the fines referred to in Article 7. I find it very wrong, when Article 1(3) includes a regulation concerning the United Nations Conference, a forum specialist, in 1977, which referred to and recorded the languages of the region. I have experience. In my student years, the Institute of Macedonian Studies in Thessaloniki was taught the Macedonian by dictatorship, the last year I was a student. Was Macedonian taught as a dialect? I don't remember that. Because it was the time of Tito, Federal Yugoslavia, of the Cold War. The issues had another rating at the time. This, then, of 1977, of a small forum in scope and worth a record, makes it a term of this agreement on the subject of the language you admit - and your Minister admits it - that it creates the problem of pervertism, if language, history, tradition, sometimes religion make up what we call ethnicity. I record the first great and serious reservation, which I do not imagine a reasonable majority man can deny: in the case of Article 1(3), case 5 for Croatian codes. I want you to see them, please, with their initials. See in addition to car codes for the rest, which are many and mainly too widely used, what you have decided together. In paragraph 8 of Article 1, on trade names and trade marks, there is a great deal - ask the country's major commercial followers - accumulated negative experience of how the international trade community received the issues of Greek requirements and trade companies in the reports, mainly on the issues of the name of FYROM.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, please give me one more minute to complete my argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u449	Don't leave for more than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u450	Thirdly, and lastly, when are they being created fait accompli? I want you to think. Some people say, since the deal came into force. Wrong. The political achievements were also created by the initialling. The two Foreign Ministers have initialled and sent the text to the Agency and are expected to sign Sunday. Finished is produced at the time of the approval of the international community after the initialling, whatever name you agreed, in whatever guarantee procedure you agreed, the international community would be positive and would obviously benefit because a problem is resolved. There are already feminine ones and FYROM will be invited to NATO in a few days' time, its Prime Minister will address the NATO Summit in Brussels. Then they will be negotiated and regulated - normal practice says three months - all rights issues, obligations of FYROM in relation to NATO. Then the permanent representatives will sign the accession protocol, that will take the way for the parliaments of the twenty-nine. He's gonna come here together, I guess, from what I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Loverdo, you've reached fifteen minutes. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u452	I'm closed, Mr. President. And then you have to understand that it will not be the time when the feats are created. Politicians have been created since this weekend. Ladies and gentlemen, my last sentence says: What Mr Tsakalotos said the other day when he invoked our vote in the summer of 2015 in the third Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos - which we did, as did the other opposition forces, to support the country and not to accept what you had recorded there - was invoked by Mr Tsakalotos and many of your ministers in the past to say "Ma, they have their basis in the memorandum that you voted on in August 2015". That is, an attempt to base the country on a weapon against counterpopulation by you. So we tell you that the risks you accept, already initialling and tomorrow signing this agreement, you will take them on your own back and you will never be able to invoke our own vote to turn it against us. The Democratic Alliance and the Change Movement are saying 'no' in the agreement and we are voting in favour of the motion of censure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u453	Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u454	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to put a few things in place and, in my turn, to agree with those who have said that we should be very careful in our expressions and in the likes of the specific people of the wing, as in every opportunity between us, they take food and often as expressions of the modern junta they want to say various things, such as what we all condemn together from the Step today. We're democrats. Our town is above all, and we won't let anyone provoke us. That's what I think and I'm sure we're all united together. We shall now proceed to the motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition. The truth is, we shouldn't have to wait for the Civic Opposition to resign. With the lies you have told the Greek people so long, you should have done it yourself. And you shouldn't be turning around and calling us political fraud, when you have told the Greek people that you will raise the tax, and yesterday you voted for his reduction, that you will pay you 751 euros and see that wages are hunger wages, that you will abolish HIS VIA and yesterday you have voted that you will increase, that you will smash memos and, indeed, you have already signed two Memorandums. So the expressions 'political deceivers' to us, it would be nice not to say and look at some internally. We, as a Centro Association, are democrats. We express the centre, we are the voice of reason, we are in favour of a single Europe, and in no case do we give the name of Macedonia under any conditions. So, today, they end up once and for all any lies, because there is no way you can co-govern by Annell Monday to Friday to provide you with support "a la cart" to get the wages, sit in the chair and have all the privileges and weekends to play the Macedonians. In fact, it is played by Macedonians on television, because I must remind you that in 2014 Mr. Kammenos was publicly bound to guarantee that no Samaras, no Tsipras and no Prime Minister will give the name "Macedonia" and, as it turns out, it was another lie by the co-pilot. Indeed, he spoke of a referendum, which is not taking place. Also another lie! He also talked about elections. Where's the election? Why doesn't he throw the government away when he said he'd be the guarantor of not giving Macedonia's name? And what does the SYRIZA Government do? The referendum is still and is denied at the moment to express the Greek people, who we all know why they are coming to the rally. It's coming out for the name, it's not coming out for anything else. He refuses to meet political leaders, so that there is at least a national line, he ignores the bronze 'parents' of all our fellow citizens at the rally, and he motivates any agreement so that he does not come into Parliament and at some point, he says, he will bring it after legalising it in Skopje. [[The President-in-Office occupies the second Vice-President of this House, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS.]] So, what did he do, in a few words? It was decided on its own that SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, because with today's vote of confidence - as was said by Minister Kollia's mouth - and the Independent Greeks agree not indirectly, but directly, in the name of Macedonia. It could therefore be argued that there is no authorisation to sign the agreement, because, since it has not come from the House, Article 7 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties does in fact provide that the Foreign Ministers do not have the obligation to demonstrate their authority, but this does not apply to the Skopje alone on the day of signature. If the government has a different view, it should also bring us what the Greek people are asking for, namely the minutes of the meeting and the decision of the Ministerial Council, which gives us instructions to Mr Kotzias on the agreement, and clearly has the signature of aggregations of the Ministers of the Independent Greeks and Mr Kammenos or to make it clear that there is no such decision, so it means that there is no authorisation and therefore Mr Kotzias has no right to sign. In the same agreement there are eyewitnesses which show that we are even giving the name. Even in adjusting the changes, there is no 'Severna Makedonija' at all, as you say. There is no clear 'erga omnes', and this is seen in the first article and is recognized to the Skopje by ethnic and language. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I'm going to need one or two more minutes, Mr. President, and I'm done in my turn. Thank you for understanding. There are also some problematic points, ten anti-corruption articles. Even with the change in the constitution, there is no escapism left. And these are Article 3 on border change, Article 4 on Macedonian citizenship, Article 7 on Macedonian language, Article 8 on national identity, Article 19 on Macedonian church, Article 36 on national liberatory wars, Article 48 on schools, Article 49 on Macedonian peoples in neighbouring countries, Article 56 on Macedonian cultural treasures and Article 74 on border change. And we also have Article 13, which refers indirectly but clearly, to AOZ and we also give the port of Thessaloniki to trade without having taken anything. I put the relevant article in the Minutes, so that I am not used to it. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, that is not all, but Mr Kotzias informs us of two - three changes. And that's not good enough for us, but it says that before he goes on vacation, he'll solve the Albania issue. Minister, go directly on vacation! We don't want you to commit any more crime. That's enough of what you've done so far. Let us now refer to the Change Movement. A few months ago he gathered up, he says, to unify the center. And now, as we see with the latest developments, it begins to become the old PASOK. Macedonia's name gave it to it, but now it doesn't give it or give it conditional. Yes, in the deal, not in the deal, yes in the motion of distrust, you don't know what's going on over there. I would suggest, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK - or Democratic Reconciliation or Change Movement, as you would like to say now - that you first solve your inner-groups, which are now five nobles, and you cannot consult each other and leave national issues to some who are most capable and able. And I'm closing up with the New Democracy. Your position, what is it? You are tabling a motion of censure, but you are not telling us what your position is. Do you or do you not give it to us, the name "Macedonia"? I say this because you are in favour of the 2008 agreement, on the other hand, now something new. All we understand is that you are against any agreement that SYRIZA brings, because here we are playing the Game of Thrones, who will throw who out of power to climb. We have also sent a letter to Mr Mitsotakis and told him that if he is committed from the Step he will do everything in order to cancel this agreement brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and pledged that he has no intention and will never give the name Macedonia, then we will support the motion of censure. Otherwise, we'll leave the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u455	All right, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Mitsotakis took the letter. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy and we are discussing this three-day is perhaps the last parliamentary, democratic instrument available to opposition in order to prevent a nationally detrimental agreement. They are harmful both to the country's national interests in relation to Skopje, as they have been identified and served by all previous governments, and to our country's good neighbourly relations in the long term with the state of Skopje. Unfortunately, this agreement is the result of a new doctrine of Greek foreign policy. It is the Greek version of the doctrine of zero problems of the country with its neighbours, a doctrine which, as it applies, devaluates any diplomatic institutional memory and effort, cancels every coordinate national strategy on the major foreign policy issues and at the heart of Mr Kotzia's concept that what was missing in recent years in our foreign policy was simply the will to solve our problems. Of course, the Minister is forgetting or trying to make us forget that he was a close associate of the then Minister for Foreign Affairs of the PASOK Government, Mr Papandreou, and he did not show the corresponding will when he himself was active on foreign policy matters. Because no one, ladies and gentlemen, comes from virginity in this Chamber. The results of this policy have been seen in our relationship with Turkey today with Skopje, and we will unfortunately also see them in the near future with Albania, as Mr Kotzias is warning us and even before he begins his summer holidays. On the issue of Skopje, ladies and gentlemen, all the previous Greek negotiators understood a key given that our real difference with the neighbouring country was never just the name. Everyone understood that the real problem was the emergence of a delayed ethnicity in the Balkans, which involved anti-corrosion characteristics. That is why an integral part of our national line over time was the cancellation and prevention of any insulating and ideological use of history and words. Does this agreement prevent or even mitigate the offspring of the neighbouring country? I'd say anything else. Nationalism in Skopje finds, by this agreement, a suitable ground for development. This is mainly because of the large and completely unjustified national retreat of the Government to grant the use of the name and the surname ‘Macedonian’, both for ethnic and language. I really regret that the Foreign Minister of the country, instead of defending the fixed national line, actually adopts arguments on the opposing side. And because I do not consider him invincible or, of course, foolish, it is a conscious choice that Mr Kotzias makes, and that makes him detrimental to national interests. The extremist elements of our neighbouring country, now also having the self-determination of "Macedonians", will also be legalised against our country to claim in future that their Macedonian nation is expanding its borders. Because when the citizens of a state are called Macedonians and at the same time their country is called Northern Macedonia it is concluded that there is another Macedonia, obviously the southern one, in which some other Macedonians live, who are under the domination of another state. The worst of all is that if this agreement falls apart partly or totally, then the Macedonian language and the Macedonian ethnicity will remain with the signature of the Greek Government, with the signature of the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, because, as other speakers have said, unfortunately, even now they have been produced, legal results have been produced. This is why, of course, SYRIZA accumulated in advance the falsehood of Mr Kotzias, that the Macedonian language was allegedly recognised in 1977. That is why they even invoke Evangelos Averov, Eleftherios Venizelos, even Paul Mela. The extreme, of course, logical outcome of your business is that Macedonia's federal democracy in the Gulf of Yugoslavia was recognized by the former prime ministers and governments of Greece under the name of Macedonia. And I'm really wondering: are you claiming that? Do you claim this for Constantine Karamanlis or even for Andreas Papandreou, Konstantinos Mitsotakis and other prime ministers? I also address many colleagues from New Democracy and from PASOK who have moved to other parties. When you were in PASOK and New Democracy, did you believe the same thing? Mr Tsipras told us that he complied with the Bucharest national line, which was then: first solution and then accession. And here, unfortunately, exactly the opposite happens. In Bucharest, we have achieved two things, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, erga omnes, that is a name for all uses. And secondly, first agreement and then a proposal for NATO membership. Unfortunately, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, has done the impossible to retreat to both. Nor is there any erga omnes once a Macedonian ethnic and Macedonian language has been recognised, nor has it been ensured that the agreement is prior to Macedonia's NATO invitation. Let me not talk about the lie that the Prime Minister said about the name 'Severna Makedonija', which is not in the text. Unfortunately, even on such a serious national issue! Greece gives Skopje the accession to NATO and the immediate start of accession negotiations with the European Union, that is to say it cancels its entire diplomatic arsenal. And, unfortunately, there are dozens more problematic points, I would say, of this agreement. If, however, this agreement is progressing properly, what exactly will the Greek Parliament be called upon to ratify in the ultimate future? What will it matter to a possible non-acceptance of the agreement? What should Greece do in case of non-acceptance? Is it possible to cancel the procedures of the international organisations? Unfortunately, the agreement not only resolves the existing differences between Greece and Skopje, but creates mathematically new problems, whether it moves forward or sticks to them. If the process sticks because of the neighbours, Greece will enter a diplomatic struggle in order to reverse its consequences until then. If it goes unintentionally, the vote in the Greek Parliament will be in an extortion environment in the face of the consequences of the negative decision and the 'no', of course, in the agreement will mean a overwhelming defeat of Greece and an international isolation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need some more time, Mr President. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is your national duty and the government's duty to prove that you have the necessary parliamentary majority for this agreement just before you commit the country. And as a opposition, I said this at the beginning of my speech, we have no other parliamentary weapon than to table this motion of censure: firstly, to show that the government organisation of the sequence for signing the agreement was made by Mr Tsipras in full consultation with his so-called supreme government partner and in such a way that he could take the obligation out of him, but also at the risk of having a parliamentary defeat. Secondly, to point out that it is so in the process of implementing it in order to send it to the next House, which may have a different parliamentary majority that may be opposed to the agreement. Thirdly, in order to demonstrate even the mini-party tactics of the Prime Minister to relieve his government partner, who may now be free to sell to the Greeks and to unpaid patriotism. And to put an end to what, in our view, is a political paradox, that is to say, a government divided into a major issue, perhaps the biggest issue that is at the moment, and at the same time the two partners should be engaged in a hypocrisy recital: that is, Mr. Kammenos should consider the issue of the name existential to him but not such that he leaves the government and Mr. Tsiprassas dare not ask his government partner what he calls for in opposition. That is to say, on the one hand, that I do not mind if Kammenos does not support this agreement, but wait and consider it to be a national reproach if the opposition does not support it, that is, Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennimatas. He obviously thinks he's addressing natives! I would like to close, Mr President, in order to make one thing understandable in this Chamber. Today those who vote against the motion of censure or those who abstain from the vote accept one thing: the existence of Macedonian ethnicity, the existence of Macedonian language, the existence of Macedonian identity. This, in order not to mock ourselves and not to mock the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u457	Mr. Nikolaos Friend of SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with the neighbouring Republic, which is expected to be signed at prespecies tomorrow, is a good agreement. It is a compromise in the interests of both countries, stability and peace in the region. It responds to Greece's democratic values for cooperation between the peoples in order to create a common future of growth and prosperity with all our neighbours. These values also meet the well-known geopolitical interests of Greece, which are part of more general geopolitical pursuits. Thus, momentum is being exploited to reach the agreement and to stop the ending of the twenty-seven years that produced destabilisation outbreaks. There may be a hole on the map, an unbaptised state, as with arrogance we thought, but reality doesn't forgive the gap. Would we like at our northern border to have a hostile state that could take advantage of it on a voluntary basis by Turkey? Or would it be nationally beneficial to dismantle this state and suddenly find ourselves bordering 'Great Albania' and 'Great Bulgaria'? SYRIZA took the people's mandate twice to get the country out of the crisis that the Greek people know about and do not forget that the forces of the old-fashioned state are responsible. The crisis is not just an economic crisis, it is a crisis of values and a crisis of the political system. Furthermore, it is a crisis in the country's international image, as the regime of debt rule had internationally devalued the country and had caused reasonable feelings of frustration to the vast majority of citizens. He was hurting our well-known national pride. In order to gradually get out of this multi-faceted crisis, we must design differently tomorrow for the people and our homeland, in terms of democratic, constitutional patriotism and not nationalism and religion. A living and timely national reason must be unified, must not rule out, not divide, not level, and must not call into question the right of national self-determination of other peoples by building aggressive denationalisation and devaluation. What else did the insistence mean to talk about 'Skopje state'? What would it be to us if some mighty people named Greece as "Athens State"? Exiting from the crisis requires a living national reason to tolerate religious, national or racial diversity, chosen by the present, not oppressed from the past and organicly compose the national with supranational. We want to feel nationally proud not only of what we have inherited, but also of what we have every day created in the national effort, with society standing up, a body of social rights and democratic values. In order to get out of the economic crisis, we have to draw up a new national perspective that is integrated into the European and more general international path. The deadlock in Macedonian in the 1990s established Greece in nationalistic controversy, so that our country cannot play a substantial, developmental role. And first - first - our Macedonia, the Greek Macedonia, which is Greek and is not at risk from nationalist fantasies by the neighbours. Because if we adopt this risk, we are undermining our national confidence. There are now new possibilities from which both Greece and the other Balkan countries can win. Infrastructures with investment, European and international, such as the Piraeus - Thessaloniki - Skopje - Belgrade, on the other hand to Central Europe, as well as energy networks, for example natural gas, can be created. Such a prospect is necessary for our country to come out firmly from the economic crisis, with thousands of new jobs and enhanced incomes. Such a prospect requires at least normal diplomatic relations between Greece and its neighbours. This is what the 'North Macedonia' agreement serves. Some - and more precisely the JRC - argue that this is a capitalist-type development that serves imperialist projects. This is anachronistic political clichés. Obviously, there is also capitalism and imperialism, but it is worth fighting for the values of peoples' cooperation, democracy and common development, even within this framework of existing sovereign relations - how else? - that it is obviously necessary to gradually change them. All the others are equivalent to escape from reality, but it leads to passive acceptance of imperialist designs. When a neighbouring people ask to join the European Union and NATO, obviously why does it think that their future is being served, with what right does Greece, which is a member of these international organisations, will prevent its integration for reasons of principle? Eventually, how far is nationalist micromultaneousism far from abatic anti-imperialism? When Albanian populations are out of the air, but are bordering Albania, who does not understand that a common stepping-up of the Western Balkans to the Euro-Atlantic structures is needed so that separatist and destabilising tendencies are not created in the states with small populations and especially in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia? Our Government, in line with the established national position of the last fifteen years, has therefore sought and achieved terms of nationally acceptable, so that the neighbours' accession process can begin on preconditions and progressively. The nationalist demagogy and paraxism have been one of the causes that led the country to the current crisis from which we are striving to get out. The New Democracy, from the political tradition of Constantine Karamanlis, Averov, Ralli, Mitsotakis, is now being treated as a party of Mr Samaras. I was amazed that Mrs Bakoyannis in her brief historical retreat was silent and did not refer to nationalism as a cause of the deadlocks on the Macedonian in the 1990s, preferring populism, a term that refers to today's political confrontation. Evidently Mrs. Bakoyannis wanted to avoid naming Mr. Samaras. But the New Democracy is a great historic party in which there are liberals with popular right-wing and extreme right-wing parties. At this time, the compound is leaning to the extreme right. It obviously has a structural problem of naturality which is also expressed by its current attitude to Macedonian. It is unacceptable, however, that Mr Mitsotakis refuses the national responsibility of his party and obey the old-fashioned elephants of party self-interest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end with your tolerance. And this nationalist inclination of the New Democracy is, unfortunately, summed up by authoritarianism, racism, nationalism and xenophobia, which is spreading to many countries of Europe at the expense of poor citizens and weaker peoples. We take this lesson every day. So in the name of what prospect does the New Democracy claim its return to power? Coming with Orban and the others of the European far right? Because the European People's Party, like the Socialist Party, agrees with the government's agreement with Skopje. The viewpoints we see in the Change Movement are explained. PASOK seems to be acting as a satellite in the New Democracy. No invoking of the past of the "patriotic" PASOK does justify overthrowing the policy on Macedonian that the once mighty PASOK had shaped in recent years. In this respect, Mr Papandreou's statement is enlightening and honest. As the country is at the forefront of the gradual exit from the monumental coercion, the Macedonian and more generally the democratic concept of the country's international orientation will prove catalysts in order to create political compositions between the left and the central left, against maintenance and right. That is why the motion of censure put forward by the New Democracy is both unreliable and unprotected. It responds to the need to bring the party of the public together. The citizens know - and, if they do not know, they feel - that the right is a ruthless party confrontation from which nothing good can arise, especially on the course of national issues. And when we say right, we not only mean New Democracy but also people of the social area, such as extreme church actors, who seek to turn the rally into some kind of trap, that is to say, political speculation on understandable national sensitivities of citizens. And here I want to refer to the responsible attitude of the Ecumenical Patriarchate, which has managed to rename the so-called "Macedonian Church" to Archdiocese the Archdiocese of Ohrid and to return to normal order, as well as assisting the Agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u459	When did this happen and we didn't get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u460	All right, Mr. Harakopoulos, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u461	Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is returning to the international community with prestige and claiming a new, as equally as possible. This is the task and the offer of the Left, which exploits the sacrifices and power of our people. We leave behind a past of misery, division, degradation, individual, collective and national, which has been a work of old-fashioned partyism and are looking forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u462	Mrs. Genias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time when we voted to set the terms and conditions for the country's exit from the suffocating austerity of the memorials in which the New Democracy and the PASOK led us, Mr Mitsotakis put forward the motion of censure against the government, thereby opening up the Pandora's box of intolerance and, of course, favouring the development of the most reactionary and extreme circles of right and fascism, with the culmination of the present unprecedented speech of Barbarousi, which he called into a military coup through Parliament. The New Democracy's responsibility is clear and undeniable. Instead of condemning the penal debacle of the Golden Eagle, the executives attempt to deepen the spirits even further. A characteristic example of the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, who just left suspicions on the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzia, that he has relations with Stasi. Unacceptable, unauthorized and of course unfounded. So what are they trying to do? To hurt the government's prestige with all of them. This government, which has been trying at all costs to heal wounds opened up by their governments, who have undertaken to lead Greece to clearing, to make it an equal, reliable and decent member of the countries of the European Union and its international interlocutors, who finally set man and his needs, after seven years of crisis, which fully took responsibility, even those who did not account for it. So, it was also called upon to resolve this issue, the Skopje conflict that has been arousing our foreign policy for about twenty-eight years, but one which has existed for seventy years. So what did the government manage? It succeeded in reaching an agreement by everyone - the European Union, the United States, the Balkan states - historically characterised, a viable agreement, identical to the national position and the conditions set for more than twenty years ago: Complex name with geographical definition, 'erga omnes' and constitutional change. An agreement that denounces aluterism, an agreement that ensures and safeguards our cultural heritage and our history. The cultural heritage of ancient Macedonia, Macedonia of the ancient Greek world, is fully guaranteed. An agreement requiring the neighbouring country to change its constitution and remove any expression of perfume or claims. And from where to date it is recognised by more than a hundred countries around the world, as Macedonia, now add the geographical definition, also your requirement, "North Macedonia", which states that nothing has anything to do with Macedonia of Alexander the Great, that is, with Greek Macedonia. Unfortunately, the reality was this: the large states - the USA, China, Russia and much more - called Macedonia, a reality that the governments of the Mitsotakis and Samaras had created and accepted. So, those who are presenting the motion of distrust today were the same who favoured the development of the paratrooping moods of the neighbor, who set up statues of Alexander the Great, and the name of ancient Macedonia was indifferent. Those who put forward the motion of censure do so as patriots, only for a cheap impression of a far-right audience with strong nationalist tendencies, because they know that the proposal will be voted down. Because the current Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister did not ostracize, as their predecessors did. On the contrary, what did they do? They dealt with the issue with sobriety, excellent capacity and deep historical knowledge, with a high sense of duty and patriotic debt and achieved this historic agreement with the best terms. They succeeded in changing their streets and airports, removing the statues of the ancient Macedonians or making clear reference to their Greekity. At the same time, they ensured stability and cooperation in an extremely critical period for the region. So what did they do? They have thus highlighted our country's leading and sovereign role as a European pillar of peace, security and development in the Balkans. And while all this is characterized - and it is - a historic moment and success, the only ones who do not see it are Mr Mitsotakis and the shadow presidents of the New Democracy and of course the Golden Dawn. The connections are not random. The conclusions are all yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u464	Thank you very much for the time economy. Mr Constantopoulos from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u465	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, within the Armageddon of the new measures the government, uncorrupted, is escaping from social outcry in a dangerous and nationally insecure manner. Mr President, Ministers, you are trying to escape from the suffering of the fourth memorandum: Of the 5.2 billion new measures. Of the 2.5 billion cuts, which lead to the loss of two pensions. Of the EUR 230 million in addition to the free traders, with the charge of insurance contributions. From the deduction of wages due to the reduction of tax. From the increase of the EMA for about one million Greeks. From the reduction of reserves. Since the sale of the public property for ninety years, as described in Article 109 of the medium term. The 150% increase in the Ennatia tolls. Gentlemen of the government, may I remind you that you have closed the review with a guarantor at EUR 25 billion for lenders. One, however, is the determination. With the exterior and hard surpluses you are stopping the liquidity of the economy. You plunge it into a constant recession and lead it to constant dead ends. Government officials, Ministers, are trying to escape the enormous responsibilities for the continuation of the memoranda. How else can Mr Tsipras' initiative be explained to bring an agreement that has been in the background for a period of six months? How else can the government's insistence refuse to convene the Council of Political Heads with the President of the Republic? Let me remind you that the President of the Change Movement, Mrs. Fofi Gennimata, criticised the path of your secret diplomacy. He called you on occasion at the table of the national dialogue, but you deaf. Your tactic, gentlemen of the government, is governed by the logic of a so-called left-wing political narcissism. It is a tactic that moves as outstanding - I would say - between authority and sometimes in arrogance, the tactics of making dialogue in advance, but insisting on our own thoughts that are immobile and constantly confirm our positions. With what, though? With a heterogeneous parliamentary majority which only unites it is rulership. Unfortunately, however, for the country, this adhesive is very strong, but it is not progressive at all. Ladies and gentlemen, from the dilemmas of the memoranda and the anti-immemorandums we have passed the dilemmas of progressive and non-progressive. Now what? With your policy, ladies and gentlemen, you are creating a national dilemma, which is very profoundly split and in which we are of course not going to follow you. So I wonder, and I would like to ask all of us a question to all of us: are there less Greek people who accept the terms of the agreement or love Macedonia more than anyone who rejects any name that contains it? Because these measures are naturally nationally harmful and emotionally leading to tensions and conflicts. Mr Ministers, you are responsible for creating this ugly climate. The agreement you are bringing is at the core of what we have fought for many years now either as a PASOK or as a Democratic Reconciliation. Our President, Fofi Gennimata, expressing all the Democratic Consensus, proved in practice our responsible and firm position. From the first time you announced the outline of this agreement, we told you to see the contents, we will discuss and be responsible to the House. In other words, once again the PASOK and the Democratic Reconciliation put in place what? He put his national and patriotic debt in front of the temporary party benefit. We, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen, are doing this over time. This way our founder, Andreas Papandreou, showed us. We don't give anything, but we don't claim anything. Ladies and gentlemen, the complex name was acceptable to us as a result of a compromise in the context of a good and comprehensive agreement with 'erga omnes' as compulsory, of course, as well as changes in the constitution, without any paralytic viewing of course. Ladies and gentlemen, the name of the Skopje must be free from memories of an affluent character, but it must also be shielded by any future initiative. Gentlemen of the government, you cannot attempt by fast track procedures to close major national issues at a time when our region is a field of strong geostrategic and economic interests. The agreement that comes has points of good that we have pointed out from the start. But it is far from the red lines we have put on ethnicity, identity, language, the time when NATO's invitation is being made, in the name of the neighbouring country, in the name of the language and in the self-determination of the nation. They're cutters, time-consuming valves at every thought of perverting. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how you handled Erdogan's journey, the captivity of our two soldiers, the flow of migrants. What was the result? The same sluggishness, the same policy without compass, without a plan, without a broader consensus. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure is being voted on by us to stop the debacle of the country in order to stop the crisis of institutions, the deportation of the state and the abolition of the independence of powers. Your policy at a time that is crucial to Hellenism, which needs to go forward, has failed because instead of pursuing national understanding, understanding and unity, you cultivate polarization and frontal conflict. This way, gentlemen of the government, you will walk him on your own. This road is a dead end. The solution is one, the verdict of our people Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, I would like the floor for two minutes to reply to Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u468	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u469	I'm not going to consider it completely personal. He referred to me, he said my name. It has been invited to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u470	I've been positively mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u471	Yeah, I didn't say you were referring negatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u472	If it was mentioned positively, what do we repository?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u473	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes because these moments are historic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u474	I've never heard of it for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u475	I heard him. And I heard him very carefully. Because these moments are historic and because in the Greek Parliament, as in every Parliament, history is written, and history is made public, we must be very careful in what we say. So for the first time, here after years we have been talking about history. Mr Loverdo, thank you for referring positively to my speech, but I would like to point out that public history is made up of official evidence - the 1913 Bucharest International Treaty and what it means - but also made of popular and social realities. Because you said of the people's history, I would like to refer to Iona Dragoumi, Penelope Delta, Mirivilis, and to the millions of people who speak a language as well. Ion Dragumis calls it Macedonian, Slavomacedonian. Penelope Delta calls her Macedonian. A lot of people. It is a lucky political leadership when it takes official documents, official realities made by international organisations, but also the social realities that have been formed and instead of setting them up in the idol of the defendant, it capitalises them for the benefit of the next generations. But that's why I didn't. Mr. Loverdo, because I know you're careful, you talked about nationalists. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You will understand that when this House writes history, we must be careful. When, Mr. Loverdo, you refer to nationalists and I know that you do not intentionally do so, I would like to tell you that the nationalists...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u476	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, please very much, you are making it easier for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, will you let me finish? I haven't asked for the floor many times. Gentiles refer to some who are against the nation. We don't have such Greeks in our country, Mr. Loverdos. Many of your colleagues and my colleagues are currently in Turkey in prisons on the charges of the nationalist. I'd ask you to get the term back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u478	Mr President, what is this? I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u479	Please, all this in a discussion. Please very much. Mr. Loverdo, you're making this easy for the Bureau, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u480	Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u481	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u482	Because a number of colleagues here present and present now were when I spoke, they understood that I spoke very positively about Mrs Anagnastopoulou. I would like to say that what we are discussing today has roots behind centuries, I referred to her speech, even though we did not say the same thing. However, Mrs Anagnostopoulou quite rightly felt the obligation to go backwards to make a reference to today. So I understand the first part of her speech. As far as the second part is concerned, I have spoken of ethnicity by not referring to it. I've known her very well for many years. I'm not talking about her. However, there are phenomena that need to be supported. This morning, the whole Chamber did this. For our part, we have said that patriotism is something that has nothing to do with nationalism, but also with ethnicism. I was not talking about Ms. Anagnostopoulos. Intervention is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u483	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u484	Colleague, this is what happens if you say good words about a SYRIZA MEP and such a meeting! You guys have a good time! Thank you very much, Mr President. However, since we are in the name of Macedonia and in history, just to be recorded in the Minutes and to understand a little why there is this conflict and how important it is, it is something that many people do not understand abroad, Professor. I will read you from the book of the relentless Hariton Koryzis, the brother of the relentless Koryzis of the Prime Minister of Greece who killed himself when the Nazis took over the country, namely from page 97 a historic event. "On March 26, 1943, at the cemetery of Kastoria, eight Greeks were executed. You're Macedonians, aren't you? They asked them. No, we're Greeks, they've answered. State that you're Macedonians and we'll release you immediately. Otherwise, death awaits you, the Bulgarians told them. Greeks were born and Greeks we will die as Greeks were our fathers, as Greeks will be our children," responded the dying and then executed. For what you're talking about, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, this is how cold a lot of blood has been spilled in this place. You know how you handled this, solely in view of the internal political agenda, how you will break New Democracy and how you will rescue Panos Kammenos, it shows exactly if you really believe anything you say. Previously, ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand who we are dealing with, we have experienced an unprecedented incident. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, was expelled when Mrs Dora Bakoyannis reminded him of his old ideological achievements. She even threatened her, too, by courts. I'm really surprised! For the record, I put the cover of Mr Kotzia's book: 'Poland and us. Acquisitions and prospects from the modern age, a book anthem to the dictator Yaruzelski, Poland - anthem! - in which Mr Kotzias was passionately defending communism and totalitarianism. And now she comes to Parliament and hides and accuses Mrs Bakoyannis that she is allegedly affecting him? Sure. He was a Stalinist communist. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I saw the other unimportant thing, that some of you were mad when Mrs Bakoyannis referred to a phrase by Panos Kammenos "I will not be the political whore of either Samaras or Tsipras". And she reminded you of what Mrs Bakoyannis said. But I ask you: does it affect what Mrs Bakoyannis says and not the one you are fighting with? I am therefore presenting for the Minutes of the House the interview of Panos Kammenos in the magazine 'CRASH'. Title of interview: "I will not be the political whore of Samaras or Tsipras", because I see you a little uninformed. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to third. Since the morning and all the last days there is a terrible sensitivity of SYRIZA to the institutions: But how dare Samaras say one? How dare Georges say the other thing? You think we're all suffering here from a group of Alzheimer's. Where were you when the "UNFOLLOW" typed a cover with Prime Minister Samara shot and seized? Do you know where you were? Mrs Konstantopoulou took over a lawyer from the magazine and then became President of the Parliament. You are so affected by the institutions and so sensitive you are when the institutions are affected. Liars! I give it to you for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I come now to Costas Vaxevanis, who first published the agreement and the name of course two weeks before it was officially announced. You were supposedly not aware of the name and we waited for Zaf to call Tsipras and Vaxebanes had posted the name two weeks ago and made the fake theatrical phone calls to put it in the time the memorandum started. Maybe you should cover the memorial and pensions with the scorpion. So take Vaxebane, his favorite Tsipras, who presented as a psychopath to then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I did not see you then tempted by the institutions. Where was Mr. Flambury, who came here to speak sweetly before, and spoke to us about measure and moderation? Now you've heard all about it. Now that you're sitting on the chairs. With the chairs, you really like modesty. Without the chairs, you're out in the square of the indignant and yelling: "Blood, burn the parliament's brothel." Because that's what you were yelling outside and listening to it in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u485	Take it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u486	Can I take it back? You called it in the square, I'd take it back? To end the joke now, more split party than you, more divisive government than you, more divisional group than you have been through Greece in recent years. All you were interested in was how to grab power. And now you've worn the mantle of moderate disease. We're not doing you the favor. But now we're going to the Independent Greeks. I see Mr Katsiki, who had been publicly mentioned very negatively in the agreement. Our views on the agreement, Mr Katsiki. But there's a strange thing going on. While our views are identified, I am an extreme and a trader of nationalism, while you are a responsible MP of the League that you have principles. Because that is what Mr Tsipras told us, that Mr Kammenos, your leader, has principles, and from the opposition those who say 'no' are traders of nationalism. How is it now that one who supports Tsipras has principles and the other who does not support Tsipras is a trader of nationalism, when they coincide with their decision on the same thing, that only liars like you can know it. But let's go to you, Mr. Katsiki and the rest of the Independent Greeks. I have experienced a critical vote in Parliament. It was the vote on the PSI. Then your Chief was calling that the PSI is a national crime because it has English law and breaks up the New Democracy. I then, as you know, was Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs and MP in Athens. On the same night I voted in favour of the PSI and the next day, after being deleted from my party at the time, I resigned from both the Member and the Minister, and went back to sell books on my show so that the Pope can now iron me out, who has the nice chair and share the money. We'll see when the time comes. Don't make the mistake, Mr. Comrade. This vote will determine the rest of your life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because there is no doubt that if Mr Tsipras goes and signs Sunday after the vote on this agreement, the results produced by this agreement will be irreversible, because everyone well understands that if the Skopje ratify the agreement in their Parliament and Greece sends a letter to NATO, saying that on the basis of this agreement this country will be accepted in NATO, no Greek Parliament in the future will be able to reverse, Mr Marie Georgiadis, this agreement. And it's good, Mr. Georgiades, and you know it, because you're making a kind of small populism, that the name of Macedonia today is being judged. It won't be judged in the future. When the signature comes in - why, as you know, the states keep going -, it doesn't exist. We're not alone on this planet. There are other countries that live with us. So tomorrow in the vote, gentlemen of the Independent Greeks, we will be counted and the story will be written by who MPs named Macedonia. And, of course, those who vote 'no' in the proposal of distrust of the New Democracy either'residents' vote or come out of the Chamber - it does not matter, Mr Georgiadis - who does not vote 'yes' tomorrow in the motion of censure, is necessarily registered to those who allowed Mr Tsipras to go to sign and deliver the sacred name of Macedonia. That's the truth, so we don't get fooled. And we must tell the Greek people the truth. Today. Because tomorrow in the vote it will be decided what will happen. I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u487	Shut up. Not just a promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u488	I shall close immediately, Mr President, and thank you. The SYRIZA Members have an ideological effect on this matter. I fully recognise Mrs Readstopoulou. Macedonia was said Skopje, half of them and the other half wanted to say it and they didn't say it, but they were embarrassed. Macedonia was called by the youth of their party. Macedonia wanted Skopje to be called. It's a retreat to them in northern Macedonia. Macedonia just wanted to. But you, Mr Katsiki, who know your patriotism - and I do not say it ironically, I mean it - personally tomorrow in the vote you will determine on which side of the story you will be yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u489	You said that. Finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u490	So think about it very well, because you won't have a second chance. And, of course, this argument by Mrs Kollia - Charuha that you will then vote against the agreement is in the proverb - listen to her well, Mr Katsiki - 'After the removal of the fund, there is no mistake.' So decide on which side of the story you want your name to be written, Mr Katsiki, and the rest of the Independent Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u491	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u492	Here, Mr. Katrugale, you have the floor, and then the Minister, Mr. Skourletis, follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u493	Mr President, I have just asked for the floor for a minute, because the Minister, Mr. Nikos Kotzias, is not present and continues to strive for immoral enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u494	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u495	No, it's ad hominem the argument. The Rules of Procedure under Rule 97(4) give me the right to speak. It's obviously not personal, because it didn't look at me. I believe, however, that it is part of a tactic that you do not refer to the facts of the contract, because you obviously have nothing to say about it, but to turn the debate into an attempt to kill characters. This shows highly weakness of arguments, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u496	This isn't personal!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u497	Mr. Katsikis is entitled to answer that. You're Mr. Katsiki's attorney?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u498	I'm talking about Mr. Kotzia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u499	Wait a minute, don't shout. There's no need.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u500	So I'm saying it's known...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u501	Perhaps the Minister had finished now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u502	Yeah, I'll talk for a minute. Insults, ladies and gentlemen, are the arguments of those who have no arguments. What Mrs Bakoyannis said at the expense of the Minister was not that she was a communist. It is known that Nikos Kotzias was a member of the Communist Party and the Communist youth. He accused him of being a member of Stasi. Anyone who can't understand the difference between an ideologist and an agent is definitely not an ideologist. I would therefore like to invite you to oppose the agreement, but not with insults, not with arguments, and above all not with attempts to harm the moral standing of people who were in opposition to the dictatorship and who have not a single black stigma in their personal and political course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u503	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u504	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u505	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u506	What do you want, Mr. Georgian number two? What do you want to talk about? Look, Mr. Georgiadis, I am not addressing you, there is another Georgiadis. Don't monopolise for the name at least. A year you've monopolized him. I say, Mr Georgiadis, in this debate - half a minute - there are many names. If we take it to the staff, I imagine we won't be finished on Sunday night. Facilitate conversation, please. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u507	Mr Adonis Georgiadis referred to the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u508	You said you sent a letter, Mr. Mitsotakis took it, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u509	Will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u510	Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u511	Should I develop the staff or do you want to develop it for me? Mr Adonis Georgiadis referred to populism with regard to me. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis cannot speak of populism in this Chamber. For God's sake! As regards the fact that we will not vote and we will not support the proposal of distrust from the New Democracy, we did not say that we would not support it. They tell us they don't give the name of Macedonia and we'll support it. 'Cause every day they're doing a fucking
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u512	You said that in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u513	...and change their position faster than a windshield wiper. Let them tell us whether or not they're giving the name clearly and we're here to support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u514	Good, that's clear. Mr. Minister, Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, Mr President. For the moment, I thought I was living in a nightmare, listening to Mr. Georgiadis. Of course, the nightmare seems to be true and it is Mr Georgiadis's views in New Democracy. It is the LEADER component, which seems to have invaded the New Democracy for several years now. Really, Mr. Georgiadis, I didn't understand the indirect defense. Are you referring to the front page of "MAKELEIOU"? Is that what you defended? Because in another form you defended "MAKELEIO", the most vulgar fascist form currently in existence in the country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You know that his editor is already referred to for specific charges. Mr Georgiadis, if you have any questions about the Foreign Minister's books, you can only compare his books to what you have been selling. But you especially are the last person to talk to SYRIZA when you are addressing SYRIZA, you can talk about chair". You have no idea what the left-wing MP's stove means and a fighter is. You have no idea. You're too far away. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's chaos that separates us, especially you who easily jumped from one ship to another. Of course, Mr Karatzaferis has learned today that he is congratulating you and Mr Voridis, because you are going to bring New Democracy along the right path. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear now - it is confirmed - that the New Democracy, regardless of the content of the agreement we are bringing, would vote against it. And the reason I think he is perfectly understandable is that he did not want to take a position clearly. Why didn't he want to make a clear position? Wasn't she placed for what her current position is? Has the defence of his previous position on the earlier governments of the composite name, erga omnes, of the constitutional revision? That's all gone. It appeared, first of all, to abdicate us and say: 'Give the whole deal, not salamaried, not fragmented'. The whole deal's here. And now that the agreement has come, and a few days ago it was said: 'Give her, after the steps she predicts, and then bring her to a vote', she is now coming and asking for exactly the opposite, knowing that in this way, in fact, the government's success, what the government has achieved through the negotiation of recent years, a successful tactic that puts concrete steps which must be implemented until the final adoption of the agreement, wants to cancel it. But it is clear - and I think you have just seen it just now from Mr Georgiadis' speech - that this practice exists. Because the current leadership of the New Democracy is a hostage to all this extreme right-wing group that invaded the New Democracy against the Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. So it is all about that, so that we do not mislead Antonis Samaras, these views which, as chauvinists, tend to be dominant in the game within the New Democracy. This is the reality and can explain in a very clear way why there is this adjournment by the Police Vice-Population Party, because there is this nationalist militarism that goes to annihilate a historic party, which after 1974 connected its name with great moments for Greece. You're going to tell me: Did the pain catch you for the New Democracy? No, for our country, the pain took us. Because we manage and bring the most advanced agreement that the country has ever had and you are coming today to undermine it. You sell a polluter patriotism. You're patriots. That's the truth. And it cannot be feared - and I am addressing the Chief of the New Democracy - that if a party is born on the right, it will cause you to adopt such a policy, which actually waters the Acro-right tree. Because all you say is to shift the political life of the place to more extreme right, nationalist relations. Your entire rhetoric, all your arguments, which have been mentioned in the last two days in Ethiopia, are essentially encouraging these abhorrent, fascist voices that we heard this morning in Parliament. You have a lot of responsibility for this thing. So you cannot fragment a national unity that has existed in recent years around the case of Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also heard Mrs Bakoyannis' speech. It was a tragedy. Drama! On the one hand, you want to criticise Antonis Samaras, somewhere to say something about patriocoagacy, to want to defend Constantine Mitsotakis' lipstick, but finally to show solidarity with Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And that's all why? For the sake of Antony Samaras' views. This is a tragedy in which I sincerely sympathize.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u516	As what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u517	As what? Like an ethnic corporation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u518	I'll tell you why I'm sympathetic. On the human level. But be careful to see: Because these are national issues, if it were your own, personal, family affairs, it would be completely indifferent. But it is about the country's perspective. Really, what do you have to say about Macedonia? What perspective do you give Greek Macedonia? What do you have to tell her? Do you want the peaches of Imathia to go directly to Europe's markets through a new rail network? Do you want Thessaloniki, which has always been historical in times of peace, to become the capital of the Balkans? You want Macedonian University to be what to share culture, to teach culture, to be the one from which to learn their own identity, that's where to learn our own identity, yes or no? Has there ever been any other period that northern Greece, Macedonia, except for those periods when it coexisted with its northern neighbours peacefully and all of them took steps towards development? Isn't that what you're thinking? You don't care? Or again, does this empire of power cause you to undermine a dynamic enclosed in this agreement? And it is this dynamic that raises its diplomatic prestige and, combined with the exit from the crisis, gives new prospects for the country, highlights it as a stable axis of peace in the wider region of the Balkans. The Balkans have been designated as Europe's silicon warehouse. You know that well. This is a step in favour of peace, of the coexistence of peoples, of cooperation. And on this one you're across the street. Why all this? For the sake of Mr. Samaras and his evenings. It is a great responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are not in this extreme right-wing tradition and you should consider it, because, as we have said before, it is not your personal case. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the best deal in our hands. It is an agreement which we, since we sincerely, defend in this House, which we are bringing to Parliament as government, as Members of the SYRIZA, are nationally proud, because we combine our name with an agreement which takes a step towards peace, the cooperation of the peoples, a step towards the peaceful coexistence of the peoples. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These are the great values of the Left! And this is coupled with the benefit of the country and its people. We are, therefore, inspired by these great values and decisively without seeing the polls, as you do, without adopting opportunistic attitudes, we will move forward and take this national step for our people, for its history, for peace, for solidarity and for coexistence in the Balkans! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u519	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u520	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u521	Mr. Georgiades, wait a minute. Don't rest. It is a normal course of parliamentary dialogue, someone who follows to answer the previous one and does not say the poem he has written many days ago. Don't degenerate that dialogue. Please, too! We won't degenerate him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u522	Mr President, on personal grounds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u523	Excuse me, do I speak unheard?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u524	On staff, give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u525	Look, we need to learn and listen except to talk. He's getting other embarrassments when we don't listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u526	Can you not give me the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u527	Especially you? What are you talking about? Take the floor! It is a sanctity not to give you the floor on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u528	Minister, I really do not know the left-wing Member's face very well. Do you know why? You've told me 50 times that I've gone from LAOS to New Democracy as a cold. But tell me once you have told Mr Kurubli, who went from PASOK to SYRIZA. Once at Mrs. Jackie, who went from PASOK to SYRIZA. Once to Mr. Bolaris, who went from PASOK to SYRIZA. Once to Mr. Kuveli, who went from SYRIZA to DIMAR and from DIMAR to SYRIZA. Only Georgiadis minds you! That's why you don't have principles! If you'd mind changing a party, you wouldn't have taken anyone from another party. You don't mind a party changing. I'm messing with you! As to whether we're alike. To change party, I did not go, like Mr Kourublis, on a night with my institution from PASOK to SYRIZA, but I resigned from parliamentarian and Minister and I went down with a cross to my new party. And I was elected by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u529	We must not now review the routes. Please, too! Your course is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u530	Get to know each other in the Chamber. We're not the same, Mr. Skourlet. You're the ones for the chairs. I'm for the ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u531	Mr. Georgiadis, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u532	And one last: Your great pain has worked for New Democracy since this morning! You're all caramanlic! Half SYRIZA cries for Karamanlis and New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u533	You've always been the one to swear him!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u534	Now you've forgotten about Andreas Papandreou you exhumed in most of your speeches. Do you know why you forgot about Andrew in this conversation? Because Andreas said that "the name of Macedonia is our soul". Now you don't like Andrew in this conversation. Now you liked her supposedly Karamanlis who had given the name since 1987. Whatever you say doesn't change the fact that you're also liars and hypocrites! The Greek people will give you their answer, gentlemen! As far as MAKELEIO is concerned, I should like to tell you that they have convicted it in the courts. They weren't expecting you, sir. But you, when as a representative of SYRIZA, asked you to condemn the cover of "UNFOLLOW" with the gunned Prime Minister, do you know what you said? 'I do not condemn it.' That's our difference. You didn't convict the cover with the shot Samaras on the cover, and you're doing me good behavior lessons. You think I've forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u535	Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u536	Mr. Georgiadis, I don't know if you've forgotten or not. The sure thing is, you're lying about this one. As far as Mr Kurublés is concerned, he went down with a cross and took one of the first positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u537	Me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u538	Watch out: The topic is not if you change party. I recognize the right of political self-determination. What bothers me, do you know what it is? Your opinions. Previously, in Samaras, you had Baltaco speak with Golden Dawn. Now they have you talking to communicate with the extreme right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u539	Mr Megalomoustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u540	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin today's speech by mentioning two virtues which I mentioned and by closing my previous speech: seriousness and honesty. There are two virtues that many in here don't have when they should. I want to condemn what happened this morning. I would like to condemn Mr Barbaroussi's statements, but also the whole Golden Dawn, which pretentiously comes to delete him, while when he was in Step and he was all applauding him together. These are the fascists and, unfortunately, they are your creation of the political system. I also want to condemn the bullies in the Chamber. Are there MPs who come from your wing who, when someone else gets the word, say typical phrases like "what are you looking at me like that?" or call on the President 'what do you let him answer?' when someone asks for the floor on staff. These are not phrases that must be heard in here in the temple of the Republic. As also it is not right to come and place ourselves on such an important topic wearing a shirt. Shall we go to the beach? It is not right, when we talk about such important issues, about national issues, to disorientate people from talking about shame payments, but also about vouchers, who are giving parents for the kindergartens, without having predicted positions and structures to get into these children. We cannot under any circumstances think of how they become MPs who belonged to the governments of PASOK and New Democracy who managed to make criticisms today. Today I heard features of two of them belonging to your wing. How do you take it? You're laughing at them with the Greek people. You are now coming - to talk about the issue too - and with courage you are telling us that you have brought the best deal. the symbiotes, because the ANELs won't accept that. This is a black agreement, a black page in the history of the memorials that have been written in recent years, of the memoranda brought by the New Democracy, the PASOK and you, the SYRIZA - ANEL. It's a small letter deal. Follow the tactics of the banks that, when they go to give loans, all the traps hide there. That's how you're doing with this deal you're bringing. And you come to give us as a account and as arguments that the former were to blame, the previous ones allowed more than 40 states to name the state of northern neighbours. And what are you doing? You make the same mistake they made. You do not correct anything and say that the neighbours have the right to self-determination. You're saying that's what it was like all the time. But that's wrong. Even in Ottoman Macedonia, when 50% came to Greece, they were called Vardarska. This is closer to reality and that is what you should be supporting. Let us now see in this negotiation, since you are the authorities in the negotiations, what you have given and what you have taken. Let's start on the easy way: What did you get? Nothing. You didn't get anything at all. You say that the alpha-corruption reports have been removed or they will be removed from the Constitution, some statues have come down - not all - and that is what you consider to be an achievement. You want them to join us as our allies in NATO and the country that will enter as an ally to have an allied mood toward us. What did you get? Nothing. Let's see what you've given now. You gave the language, you named the name, you gave the nationality, you gave the identity, you gave our port. Because they're going to win financially and I wish we could. Did you not speak - because you question me - that Thessaloniki and the port will become the capital of the Balkans? That's what you said. I'm not saying you hand it over to them. I'm not saying you're coming to skeptical the port of Thessaloniki. I say that, too, the Skopje will win. They negotiated for their own good, they won. You are now saying that all the alpha-corruption reports will be removed from our side, as will our books. They'll change what? The chapters that speak of the Macedonian Race? What's it gonna change? Do our children know anything absurd right now? Haven't you changed the books for three years that you've been government to change for twenty years, and will you change the books to satisfy the Skopje? Let me ask you one more question: when you say that you will be lifting all the alpha-corruption reports, the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace, how will you say so? Macedonia - Thrace. So, according to you again, that's assimilating. You must understand very well what you are doing. You tell us that we are patriots, because we say self-evident, because we say what the Greek people want to hear, what the Greek people say. But we're telling you the counterfeiters of history. You now belong to the ruins of this country, because you also contribute to poverty, you contribute to the alteration of our society, when you let so many young people go abroad. We see the Brain drag in your years and you have the immigration with nothing to do. Now just this month, a few days ago, you brought a bill that regulates it. You've exchanged our story to stay in your chairs. This is a tragic mistake. To talk a little bit about the New Democracy, which accuses us of not going up to its chariot. Why come up? Accept the mistakes you made so far? Wasn't it in your day that these hundred and forty countries were more than called the neighbours of Macedonia? What did you do? Nothing. And what are you doing now? It is not clear to us that if you undertake to deal with this issue, you will not allow the term 'Macedonia' to be used in the name of the neighbours. Say it clearly and then with you. We'll throw them down to avoid this fatal error that can't be corrected. Because the signatures will fall on Sunday and it's all over. What are you doing with your co-pilots, the ANELs, who very much fear that if they don’t suffer from dementia, they tell immoral lies. I'll explain why I'm saying that. Because they tell us that it was a principle in their founding statutes that they would not give the term 'Macedonia' to the name which, by voting in favour of the government today, you are actually giving the name. While you said that you would also be guarantors today, according to your President, please react to the Skopje. If it's not cowardice, what is it? But if the Skopje are to react, there is a risk of fait accompli. We are not alone, as the previous speaker has said, in this world. If the deal is signed, then nothing will change. Our only weapon was the veto of Macedonia's membership to NATO and the European Union, and you are giving it to me. You leave the country at mercy. We're getting rid of it - understand that - with this deal. I'm sorry about my expression. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Very little time will be needed, Mr President, yet. I'll be very brief as long as the bell closes. Why don't we go to a referendum? The neighbors will go. The Prime Minister tells us that we don't change our name. We're giving our story to this thing. Here the President of the Republic should intervene, because you are going to Prespes or wherever else you are going - you can go to Skopje, according to the latest information - to sign without having a parliamentary majority. Is that a democracy? Our embassy should react to that. You've become Gepetto's sons, worse than Pinocchio: And liars and neuroscore, flexible, like the strings you're manipulated with. Do exactly what they want, as you call them, the devilly good and the ma'am...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u541	Mr. Big-fashioned, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u542	We are not going to allow or be accomplices at least to this crime you are committing against Greek history, against our country. Understand it and until the last minute, at least you disagree, change it. Don't let those who decide for themselves to sell our story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u543	So do we. Mr. George Diaras from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u544	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very sad for Parliament here that we have arrived. It is tragic that a MEP of the Greek Parliament should use these words used by the MEP of the Golden Dawn, Mr Barbarousis, to call on the army to decapitate the President of the Hellenic Republic, the Prime Minister and others. I realize that. Let the Greek people know. Golden Dawn means junta. They applauded Barbarousse. However, I was particularly upset by the style and spirit of Adones Georgiadis. One reinforces the other. What did he say? He said to us: "You didn't yell 'to burn, burn the brothel, the House'." He doesn't know that none of us have that view, does he? Why does it say so? Doesn't it cause these phenomena? Does he not move them directly or indirectly? I can't follow Mr. Adoni Georgiadis and all the relevant ones, what's he saying? We don't care about chairs. We didn't do politics. Many of us here during the dictatorship risked our lives for democracy. We've been through torture. And do you know who those torturers were? That type of Chrysayites. These guys tortured me in the EBA and General Security. We are not afraid of them, then, but all those who feel like democrats need to make a plan on how to deal with this mismanagement for our country. So such words by MPs who are not at the Golden Dawn, like Adoni Georgiadis, should not be said. We're not all the same. We don't have this conception that Adonis and the others have. I wanted, therefore, more calmly to discuss the issue we are discussing. There are different approaches and perspectives on the Macedonian issue. There's an emotional approach for all of us. As Greeks we were taught from history about ancient Macedonia, Philip, the Great Alexander who had a teacher, the great philosopher Aristotle and that Alexander the Great spread ancient Greek culture to the East and other directions. The vast majority of Greeks do not feel well when another country appeared as a heir to this story. Emotional approach does not, however, solve any politically any issue. The emotional approach is understandable and respected. It must not, however, lead the country's international relations and good neighbourly relations. The other approach is nationalist. What do nationalists say? They say, "We are not discussing anything, no names, no concessions. We are only talking about changing their name and saying it what they want, but not including the word 'Macedonia'. If we tell them that the whole world tells them about Macedonia, they say, "We don't care. We tell them what we want." This position is often accompanied by martial cries or Barbarousi type. But there are nationalists, on the other hand, in FYROM too, who want no compromise and no complex name. They want to be Macedonia, claim foreign symbols, foreign history, the Sun of Vergina, Alexander the Great, and make conquest dreams. Likely nationalists in such matters don't understand each other. If they were in the governments, they would lead the countries to war. In other words, the meeting of nationalists in time and power is equal to war. I do not know if the Greek citizens and especially those who vote on the Golden Dawn, because they think they are patriots. These political positions are wrong, because they do not account for the constantly evolving and changing reality. It's out of place and time. They are injurious to the homeland and the citizens, even when the expressors make an oath of faith to the nation and to the homeland. Such positions carry us back to the Middle Ages. Today's reality is different. In today's Europe, countries with eternal contradictions and conflicts have understood that the common benefit is understanding, understanding and resolving conflicts through cooperation. The border between France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, Austria, Italy. We have a long period of peace. We have an increase in the standard of living. We have more democracy and individual rights. Of course, we also have business connections and investment. The meaning of "my" or "my" home is different today than it was a century ago. Globalization has changed the terms, whether we like them, or we don't like them. Greek enterprises are located in the city of Skopje and other areas of FYROM. In our homeland, banks are controlled by foreigners. OTE communications, 'COSMOTE', mobile telephony, major hotels, supermarkets, airports, ports, energy and many others have them. That's our homeland today. Who's the enemy? Is this the small state? The part of ancient Macedonia which has been inhabited for a thousand four hundred years by a mixture of ethnic groups with a majority of this people of Slavic origin? I'm going to tell you a little bit about the ecological perspective on the matter. Because the planet has no borders, people built the protection fences that are currently useless as protection. The planes and rockets crossed those walls. The rivers, the seas, the forests, they have no borders. With FYROM we have the same river. It's worth it, Vardharska. Air and sea pollution have no borders. Climate change has no borders. So once, then, we have to go beyond this old thinking. Stop looking at 19th-century glasses. What are the demands today? The protection of the planet, I think, is the major issue. Seas, rivers, lakes, groundwater, forests, agricultural land and climate change. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, the others had seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u545	I'm late to give you time. No one's wrong here. Only the Bureau is sometimes wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u546	Let me finish. The great danger, therefore, is that of the planet, which concerns all humans and all other human species. It is also a big question of peace. People's cooperation on the environment, transport, commerce, education, culture and defence are new issues and challenges. So let us have this in mind when we negotiate and when we make the serious decisions. Physical crisis conditions require over-exceedings and state-of-the-art analyses. Speech and speeches like Mr Georgiod, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who is addressing the feeling more than reason, exploit the anger of the ordinary people possessed by pure patriotic emotions. But they do for voting reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u547	Finish it, please. We need to run faster. There's others on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u548	To finish my sentence. I will not read the other text on what is the Greek reality today and that hundreds of forty countries recognise that state in Macedonia, the largest countries of the world, China, the United States, the United Kingdom. I would like to say that this New Democracy proposal for distrust, I think, is not an honest proposal. It's a political game. It's hypocrisy. I believe that you actually want this agreement to be concluded. Just take your tail out for reasons of purely voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u549	Mr. Stylus from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u550	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to the agreement of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL between Greece and Skopje. It's worse than a bad deal because it's an unstable deal and I'll prove why. You recognize Skopje by the name of Macedonia or Northern Macedonia. You are creating a feminine precedent. You recognize the existence of a Macedonian nation. You recognize the existence of a Macedonian language. This development is unacceptable because the recognition of Macedonian language and ethnicity is the root of scepticism. Neighbourhood nationalism finds by this agreement a suitable ground for development. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely false that the government has succeeded in committing Skopje to the so-called erga omnes, that is, a name for all uses and against all. This is a fraud agreement for erga omnes and I explain why. In particular, Article 1 ‘Severna Mekedonija’ does not appear in the text. Nowhere does it appear that Greece can use this term intransigently. Paragraph 10 of that Article provides that official documents intended for international use will be changed within five years, while the change in documents intended for internal use in the neighbouring country will take place with the evolution of the accession process of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to the European Union. Paragraph 3i shall be moved for the future and the settlement of trade names and names. Paragraph 3(e) of the same article on the abbreviations of the name shall remain the present acronyms of the country NK and MKD. The only change that the Tsipras-Kojia Government has achieved relates to the car plates on which the NM and NMK codes will enter. Article 7 states that each country will interpret the term 'Macedonia' and 'Macedonia' at will. In accordance with Article 8(5), a multidisciplinary committee will be set up to examine how the history of both countries can be taught in order to remove the alkali references. So there are, in our own writings, alpha-corrosive references. You're lying. If all goes well Greece will ratify the agreement and the Protocol of Accession of Skopje to NATO. But if Skopje fails to reach the agreement, the invitation to join NATO is not cancelled, but the dispute is referred to the UN Secretary-General and the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I say again, you've brought an unstable deal. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make an indication of the agreement in the future. Where does it appear that a relationship of cooperation and friendship with Skopje will be developed in the future? Will the agreement protect our country's cultural and historical heritage? Have you been asked what suffering can be generated by this agreement? Do you have a study or won't there be any illusions? International instruments and international agreements, other than signature, must also ensure that they are implemented. The agreement has a long course of implementation. There are no specific timetables - what we call the road map - for its implementation. What happens if the Skopje change their position tomorrow? What are the guarantees for its policy of implementation? Sign and then it depends on others. Ladies and gentlemen, let us overcome legal formalities and move on to political reality and political practice. Is Zafe a moderate politician? Does the political experience and political size have to force his country and its citizens to agree on them? Does he have the political majority? Does it have the political legitimacy? Is there an assessment of his future political sovereignty? Are most Macedonian MPs today nationalists? I'm telling you, you've brought an unstable deal. Ladies and gentlemen, the question arises, why does the agreement have to be closed now? Is our country at its best, its most powerful negotiating position historically? Is Greece a strong Greece? The debt colony, as former Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL said, marks a weak Greece in order to negotiate the most important agreement in our history after the post-Civilisation. According to your words, we will leave the memoranda and go to budgetary freedom and development. So why don't you leave for the future, at that point in time, to negotiate this agreement? I would like to remind you of the example of Cyprus. The Annan plan was rejected in 2004 by a referendum that received 76% of the people of the Republic of Cyprus. Then the international representatives said that it was the best that our Cypriot brothers could ensure. Today, fourteen years later, I look you in the eyes and ask you: Is there anyone who thinks we've missed a great opportunity then? Are the conditions for Cyprus better today? You sign an agreement at a time when our country is in its worst economic position and Skopje is sure to be in a worse position later. Ladies and gentlemen, patriotic policy means working for a better future for citizens, trying for better living conditions, ensuring more favourable conditions for cooperation with other countries. The concept of the nation went ahead with mankind because it produced human rights, peace, democracy, independence, prosperity. Prosperity has a nation, ladies and gentlemen, not only when it has money, but when it has cultural, historical and religious continuity. In simple terms, it must have tradition, ties and roots. The agreement is not patriotic because it can cause conflicts and because it reproduces the seamlessness of the neighbouring country. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government commits a national crime, but, in my opinion, it does not care about the damage it causes. He is only interested in getting good words from representatives of international organizations. He underestimates the Greek people and works against our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be going by 2.00 p.m., unless there is the idea of taking it on Monday morning. In that light, I think we should put the time in five minutes. No one's using the sub-meter anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u552	It's unfair, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u553	Leave it and tomorrow you see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u554	So we're going to take it all the time by Monday?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u555	Leave it still today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u556	I don't understand anything. It's habra! Mr. Paulides, you have the floor. We're wasting time anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u557	I am sorry, but after what happened this morning, I think it is my duty to inform Parliamentary delegations and colleagues who are here for two developments. The first development is that the representative of the Golden Dawn, the fascist who previously wanted to call on a devastated culture, made a statement of revocation, saying his faith in constitutional legitimacy, proving that the offspring of dosing were always cowardly. That's first. Secondly, I would like to say that a statement has just come out of the Socialist Party, which calls on its members to support the agreement reached by the Greek Government with the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm saying that to find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u558	We're reading it. We don't expect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u559	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u560	Isn't that a waste of time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u561	Aren't you tired, Mr. Buddhism? I wonder, aren't you tired?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u562	We're waiting to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u563	But aren't you tired of this behavior, Mr. Vulture? We're tired of it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u564	We're all tired of every minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u565	I mean something. I apologise for Barbarousi's shame. Mr. Paulides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u566	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, foreign policy necessarily follows and serves the obligation of consistency in diplomatic continuity. It does not result from an epiphany of the Holy Spirit, from nowhere, nor is it a metaphysical phenomenon. It doesn't start with a zero base anyway. It starts with consolidated and registered positions in international organisations and the files of the development of the negotiations from the past. That is to say, it follows the historic path of negotiations in time. He's hitting deals. The envelopes are on the table. ‘Where were we? What do we want to do? What has been guaranteed so far?’ On this basis, then, we have the Third United Nations Conference on Language in 1977 by our Mr and dear Babiniotis, the New York Interim Agreement in 1995 and Bucharest in 2008. What have we had so far? We have always had the request of the composite name, there has been no negotiation without the request of the composite name. We didn't always have erga omnes. We did not always have a requirement of constitutional revision, and we had hardly ever referred to ethnicity and language nor to the Interim Agreement of 1995. To refresh your memory. There is a report by the Greek negotiator, Ambassador Adamantios Vassilis - along with officials from the Ministry - to Mr Abrahamos just entered into on 23 July 2012 as Minister of Foreign Affairs, where this report says: For language it should be said that in 1977 there was an international United Nations meeting on geographical names. At that time, under the pressure of the former Yugoslavia, we agreed that there were two languages in this country with scriptures, Serbian and makedonski, the Latin script of which is macedonian. Both nationality in the report and language are not included in the Interim Agreement or in the UN Security Council decisions. We never raised a question about the language language of 1977, neither in 1995 nor in 2008. What did we do in this deal? We have incorporated an already consolidated position of language, a regulated position forty years ago. Many colleagues have not read the agreement. If I ask, many will not know how many pages the deal is or how many articles it has. I found out a while ago. The agreement clearly states that the official language of Part Two is the country of Skopje - as recognised by the Third United Nations Conference on the standardisation of geographical names held in Athens in 1977. That's language, that's patenting the deal. The principle, which has been adopted since 1977, without any other recognition, without any other binding one, which in the following article clearly states that it is a language of a South Slavic language. Nationality, nationality. Let's see how Macedonian ethnicity is recognised? Because clearly in this article this particular article says that the nationality of Part Two will be Macedonian - a citizen of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as it is entered in the travel documents that are now known as Macedonian. What is citizenship, ladies and gentlemen? Is it a citizenship or is it not a political, legal concept? In other words, it shows the legal link between the individual and his state. Instead, what is nationality? Is it or is it not moral, cultural? The relationship that man has with his culture, with his family with the values of society in which he grows. On that basis, then, there are minorities in the Northcontinent. He is a Greek national, Albanian citizen. As residents and citizens of Albania. So they don't talk about nationality. Everyone can easily say what they want, but in fact and in the agreement they are clearly enshrined in this article. Let's go down. Because there's this national self-reportance, we and no one else. It is a question of al-flatism, of mediocrity, of selling, of the last national treason. Are all the red lines of the twenty-five years maintained or maintained? In my opinion they are maintained. It's just a question of perverting. We'll see about that, too. It is either not a socio-political movement, which seeks the release of nations or the conquest of territories which one feels belonged to or at one time or stays or a thousand or two others. In what way is this in the agreement and it is not abolished? I would ask a colleague here to bring me here, when the next Members take the floor today and tomorrow, I very much ask him to tell me 'at this point there is a sense of insulating'. Since many of you have not read the articles, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that they are twenty pages and twenty articles. You know, if they ask you on television, you know what to say. From the 20 articles, the five - Article 3, Article 4, Article 5, Article 6, Article 7 - clearly raise questions of the abolition of alphabeticalism, which concern either the so-called minority that does not exist and which do not exist, whether the borders or symbols. It even protects from acts of private bodies that may be against one side's or the other's perception of its situation. Five of the twenty articles deal only with the issue of aluterism. Let us say something else, ladies and gentlemen, because it has been very patriotism and very self-determination and moderation. This triangle of refusal of the composite name Mitskoski, the leader of VMRO, Ivanov, the President of the Republic, Demetrov, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the neighbouring country, and the pervertalism are speaking. May I read to you what Mr. Ivanov says? Mr Ivanov says that the state's positions on the non-change of the constitution and non-acceptance of the name 'erga omnes' were abandoned by this agreement. The agreement is harmful to them and is a unique case in the history of humanity, which violates the constitution and the laws. The text is defeated for Macedonia - Ivanov said - and explained that it does not only change the constitutional name, but also the preamble to the Constitution and all the articles in which it refers to "Macedonia". Gruevski said the deal is worse for them - for Skopje - than the one they rejected in 2009. It is what you say, "We only gave and didn't get." I don't know where it's coming from. I can't see it from somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u567	Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u568	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u569	Mr. Pavlidis, I'll apply it strictly. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u570	But you interrupted me for two seconds...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u571	You don't want to change the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u572	You interrupted me before my time was even finished, Mr President. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say the red points. The composite name has been established. Geographical determination has been established. Erga omnes, constitutional review, anti-corrosion issues and especially the question that it is interrupted...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u573	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u574	I shall conclude, Mr President, with that. In essence, therefore, it ends the concept that the particular state, this particular people, can be a historic continuation of ancient Macedonia and Alexander the Great. This is clear from all the articles of this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u575	It's clear what you said!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u576	That's why I'm asking you to vote for it, everyone you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u577	Be well, Mr. Pavlidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u578	...be nationally responsible and not just unimportant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u579	Don't embarrass me. It's got to be like this. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u580	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by taking the floor, I would first like to emphasise the enormous responsibilities which New Democracy has - and especially its leadership - for all that we have experienced this morning with the fascist and war speech we have heard within the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u581	Where and where, Mr. Kafantari?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u582	With your tactics, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you opened the wardrobes of history and tried to restore the climate of division and a climate of civil war, of another era that the republic of our country and the Greek people, especially after the Century, had put aside. Today, the masks really fell. Why was the proposal of distrust tabled by the New Democracy to the Government? I'll just say two things. Firstly, because it proved in practice that there is no left-hand parentheses, and secondly - and importantly - because our country is gradually coming out of the Memorandum policies. So you are using a serious national issue, which the government is dealing with with respect for the citizens of this country, and which respects the sensitivities of the Greek people, in order to achieve your political goal: that this government should fall. And you use all the means in this direction. We are therefore discussing today a proposal of distrust from the New Democracy. But we must make this clear: how does a government judge? Firstly, the correlation of its policies in terms of meeting the needs of the people. Secondly, by the functioning of the democratic institutions, the culture, the safeguarding of rights and individual freedoms. Thirdly, from the country's international upgrading, as well as from the institutions in which it participates. I am thinking here of the European Union, NATO and so on. And fourthly - and very importantly - of its ability really to resolve issues to the benefit of the country and country. We therefore have a government which took over the country in bankruptcy in 2015, a bankrupt country with 25% reduction in GDP and 27% unemployment, a country, at that time under extermination, I would say, from the European mechanisms and mechanisms of the euro, that small and medium-sized enterprises should be closed down from 2010 and our youth rally from 2010 onwards to emigrate abroad. Last night we heard a new political term from one of the two rapporteurs in the New Democracy. "Around one government," he said. Well, this so-called “approximately government” takes us out of the memorials and society today is standing. We have an increase in work, we have a reduction in unemployment, we have assessments that close, we have a surplus of 2.3 billion in the first four months, an increase in exports, an increase in industrial output, a positive balance in opening up new enterprises according to "ERGANI", and our country for the first time has a development plan, which was discussed in the Greek Parliament, but also submitted to the institutions. We have a government that brings the country back to normality while - and this is very important and we are not saying it - at European level - has actually gained credibility. Watch out, I'm not talking about success story. Some people in the past were talking about success story in the government, Mr. Samaras. Unfortunately, however, for you, Mr Regling himself described this country's efforts as a success model. We don't. Mr. Reggling said that yesterday. So this government inherited a number of issues and called on these issues to be resolved. Let us begin with years' outstandings that characterise a modern state, much more European: National Land register, forest maps, spatial planning. Recently the maritime spatial planning was also adopted. Upgrading our country's geopolitical position, which is very important, which is gradually becoming a hub of trade, transit, energy, with large agreements in energy, with tripartite Greece - Cyprus - Israel - and also with Egypt - on issues of protection of the Mediterranean, water, maritime pollution, innovation. Huge investment colosses in the energy sector show interest even in the exploration of hydrocarbons in Greece, which shows the vote of confidence in the Greek economy. Not to say about the pipelines going, like TAP, IGB, etc. The geopolitical upgrading of our country continues. Greece, with the highest GDP in the Balkans - and this is important - has lost the opportunity for twenty-five years to lead this sensitive region in the Balkans. I will not go into historical issues. A great deal has been said about this. However, I will say that our Macedonia is not in danger. It is really an opportunity today for our country to lead the Balkans, to build roads to peace, cooperation and co-development, which is very important. It is an opportunity to prevent third-party plans, with expansional views in the Balkans too - and I am now implying Turkey - and finally to have their own voice. This government dares, it has the courage to resolve matters. It opens new roads for the benefit of the people. It is not an honour, ladies and gentlemen, - and I address you again - to rejoice that we have not resolved this issue with the neighbour for twenty-five years for various reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u583	Mrs. Kafantari, time's up. It's perfect. It's wonderful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u584	Last conversation. There has been a lot of talk about patriotism. But I'll say one thing. It is a Patriot who solves issues that opens new paths for the good of his country and his people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u585	Thank you. Mr. Lazarides has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today the motion of censure, tabled by the Civic Opposition and trying - for days now - to raise or, if you like, to excite the patriotism of the Greeks, saying that this motion of censure was tabled on the agreement with Skopje. I would like to read to you what this motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, says to see why it is a monument of hypocrisy and misled by the Greek people. What does this motion of censure say? It says: 'Honourable, Mr President, three and a half years the government has made the citizens poor. He signed two irresponsible memos, bound the country with heavy pension cuts and wages, increased taxes, mortgaged public property. Insecurity dominates everywhere. Unacceptable methods...», etc. Where does he say here about Macedonia? Below has two or three series that says about Macedonia. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] What is he trying to do with it, ladies and gentlemen? He is trying to lure, frame some colleagues from the way he manages this motion of censure, support the motion of censure and then say that 'here is a question for the government'. Now I come to something else to see how hypocritical the Civic Opposition works. Until yesterday evening, when we voted here on the multi-brand plan, it was fought with all its powers with the multi-brand plan. He had this motion of censure to testify to it in the morning and even the day before yesterday and to block developments in the Multi-Project. He didn't. What does that mean? It means that what she writes here herself in the motion of censure and accuses the government's economic policy is hypocritical. It's not justified any differently. The Independent Greeks, firstly, because from our founding declaration we cannot accept the use of the term "Macedonia", we say no to the agreement and use of the term "Macedonia". But we say no to the New Democracy motion of censure, because, as I have said, it is a memorial of hypocrisy. I have heard here some colleagues from New Democracy who have actually complained that the Government of Samara fell from outside players in 1993. Who was it who threw the government of New Democracy in 1993 at Kostas Mitsotakis? Was it Mr. Samaras, the later Chief of the New Democracy? That was him, ladies and gentlemen. Then I heard from some colleagues for 2008. Indeed, the government of Costas Karamanlis then accepted an unjust war, a war involving other forces - this has proved to be outside the country. And where did the government of Costas Karamanlis fall from then? What was the dominant slogan? The 'Greek are there'. Who was that coming from? From George Papandreou, from PASOK, the later partner of the New Democracy. So let them not look for where they are who prevented the New Democracy from reaching its goals. They are through the party itself or are others with whom they cooperated. I have already heard a colleague from the New Democracy say that in the 40 years he negotiated, it has brought a strong result. What sturdy effect did it bring? Why didn't he tell us? It says vaguely that in the 40 years New Democracy has brought firm results. Who is she? Let us see what the steadfast results are, which are mentioned here, in the draft agreement, which has come to us. It says in the first article in the second paragraph: 'to which both parties are committed in accordance with the decisions of the United Nations Security Council 817/1993 and 845/1993 and the 1995 Interim Agreement'. Who were they ruling then, ladies and gentlemen? Who made a commitment to these agreements like the country? Clearly not SYRIZA with the Independent Greeks. I'm continuing with point (c) of Part Two. "The official language will be the Macedonian language, as recognised by the 3rd United Nations Conference on Standardisation of the geographical names held in Athens in 1977." That's what strangers write about. No one else writes them. They are commitments that you have brought the country into specific periods. I would like to remind you here - and I say this very quickly, because time is relentless, ladies and gentlemen - that in 2005 a Member of the New Democracy, Mrs Psarouda - Benaki, spoke about limiting national sovereignty and made a reference to borders, etc. I don't go any further. You all understand and have heard what Mrs Benaki said. What then did the two parties that ran this place for so many years? Have they done anything before to fortify our country and do not jeopardise what Mrs Benaki pointed out? Oh, no. Did they then make sure, from Mrs Benaki's point of view, that they do anything? Oh, no. So they should go up here and apologize. You know, the deal takes a lot of time to come. Now, we're not talking about the deal. Despite the fact that he is trying to shape climate, the Civic Opposition, here we are not talking about it now. Why does the New Democracy not tell us what its position is and what does it support? It does not tell us because, as I said yesterday, the New Democracy still has no place, because a part of the New Democracy agrees with geographical determination. Another part agrees with time, with "New Macedonia" etc. Others agree with "North Macedonia" and "North Macedonia" etc. For example, I have not yet heard the President of the New Democracy tell us what his opinion is. I haven't heard that yet. We all remember the eighteen points, the two Zapia, the 'no sinless'. So now I'm talking about the mutant, the neoliberal New Democracy, because I come from there too. I come from the New Democracy of the radical liberalism of Constantine Karamanlis, as the ideological outline of the party was then defined and has nothing to do with this party that we are seeing today in the position of Officerial Opposition. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened a long time ago to some of the Qualified Opposition to defend the period of Kostas Karamanlis. I heard a Member yesterday, and I heard today. For so long, so many months I have heard from your former partners, from PASOK, shooting the period of Kostas Karamanlis, which was the period of the highest growth rate in our country and considered it responsible for the destruction and crisis in our country. At last, some people were found to support her. The Independent Greeks, as I said before, are also saying 'no' to the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy, but we are also saying so in the agreement. In conclusion, I would like to say this because Mrs Bakoyannis said something earlier, which is dangerous. He said someone should give the passport to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Prespes. You know, for the press, there's no need for a passport. The Prespes are part of Greece, they are part of Macedonia and they don't need a passport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u587	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Hatzidakis, will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u588	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that my knowledge does not allow me to follow the heightening of the analysis carried out by the ANLE party. However, I am sure that the Greek people will increasingly know from us the humble Members of the New Democracy and reward Mr Kammenos and the ANELs for this clarity and clarity of their positions over time and especially in the context of this vote. I come to our positions, though. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be clear from the outset. Is the New Democracy in favor or against a solution to Skopje? Apparently, in favor. Does the New Democracy consider that Greece is a superpower, which can impose its will on all our neighbours? We obviously don't have that kind of naive. Does the New Democracy think that this issue we are discussing today has a past involving all the political forces, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Obviously there is a past here, and that is why we asked you to do so at noon, if you want to make documents public, publish all documents and your own period. In the past, there is obviously also the large Bucharest station, to which I shall return. The Tsipra government in the Skopje negotiation had two weapons. One I just mentioned. It's Bucharest's acquis. What is Bucharest's acquis for me? The 1995 Interim Agreement of the Papandreou Government said that Greece cannot prevent Skopje from joining an international organisation, since Skopje applied under their provisional name. It can't be. And that's why the recognizing judgment of the Court of Justice of The Hague is there. In Bucharest, however, our partners, following the negotiation of the Karamanlis government, came and told Skopje that "no way you can enter NATO unless you have the approval of Greece". This was the benefit with the New Democracy and with the Government of Karamanlis. Let's get this straight. And that is exactly what you have relied on to make this negotiation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second weapon you had in recent months is that before 2018 in Skopje and with us and with PASOK and with you there was an uncompromising government, so the acquis of Bucharest until then had only one theoretical value. We had it until there was a will from Skopje to negotiate. You took advantage of it, but you will see how then, as well as the fact that there is a government in Skopje that wants to put Skopje to NATO, which, thankfully for NATO - was not broken up, as you wanted in your programme, we were also in 2015. NATO escaped from SYRIZA. So what did SYRIZA do? The first thing he did, ladies and gentlemen, - look at your statements - was to deal with this as an unfinished matter. 'Let's unleash it.' It is a big national issue. You don't treat it as a loose end, so I can solve it in a month, get out of the table. The word looseness you use and reuse is reasonable to be used by you. Because, as we know now, on 17 March 2008, some two hundred SYRIZA officials launched a joint position, according to which they said, they said that this state should keep its constitutional name. In other words, "Macedonia's Republic". Among these were two active ministers of government, Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Gavroglou. I put the text here, along with the signatures, to stay in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is in relation to the issue of looseliness. I come to the point of order, namely how you handled the matter. You handled it with arrogant and irresponsible attitude. You started with the leaks from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Church is identified as Golden Dawn. Then you passed on to the Prime Minister's statements that the hundreds of thousands gathered in Athens and Thessaloniki were a heirly mob. A specific political superiority syndrome, whoever is toward you, despise him and despise him. And then you're looking for who mobilizes the people in these rallys. You mobilize the people with your arrogance and your authoritarianism. That is quite clear. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] First of all, you tried to work on the issue to scratch old wounds in the New Democracy, and perhaps sting more into polls. So you're talking about the extreme right-wing turn of the New Democracy. You, Mr. Kammenos, are talking about the extreme right-wing turn of the New Democracy, when you have your partner, Mr. Kammenos's party, which you can see how he votes on many different bills, you see that he is placed on this agreement, which, not us but those who, they, characterize as a shameful, no matter what they will do in the end, of course. Therefore, not to us. At the same time, of course, you remembered that you are Karamanlis and Metsotatians. Do hymns to Karamanlis and Constantine Mitsotakis. For a handful of votes, you are ready to say "Having New Democracy"! For everything you're capable of! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I come to the point of the matter on the substance. I have here the Prime Minister's letter on television on 12 June. The Prime Minister spoke to the Greek citizens, he said things and said that the Skopje agreed to rename their country to the "Democracy of Severna Macedonia", that is in our language in "North Macedonia". We searched for it in the treaty the next day, we searched again, we checked again. Nowhere. It is not, if you like, the most important issue of all, but I honestly wonder what a Prime Minister is pushing to say such a great inaccuracy to put it politely. I'm going further. There's the other concession you make, the Macedonian language. Invite this notorious UN document on translation from the Cyril to the Latin alphabet and vice versa. I was a long-term MEP. The direction I have always had from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with all the governments is that whenever the term 'Macedonian', 'Macedonian' and so on, we must be across. That was the direction we had from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I have the impression that your former leader, Mr Alavanos, a Member of the European Parliament and he, this morning, said in his radio interview. Of course, at the same time you also make another concession of Macedonian citizenship, not a complex name, but rather a 'Macedonian citizenship'. It seems to you all that goes without saying. They do not seem to be self-evident in Bulgaria, which Bulgaria, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, issued a communication the other day expressing its concern, because, as you know, Bulgaria has recognised this state as "Macedonia" but does not recognise Macedonian citizenship and Macedonian language. Obviously the Bulgarians are also far-right and are on this 'black' front of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u589	He thinks they're Bulgarians. Is that in favour of Greek law, 'Great Bulgaria'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u590	I am simply presenting it to see if the concerns are one-sided. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Stenography of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the question of erga omnes, which is, of course, described in various parts of the draft agreement, but it does not really exist. Article 1(110a) provides that official documents moved abroad shall keep the name ‘Republic of Macedonia’ for five years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will also give me the time of my dentistry, Mr President. The official documents on the inside will keep the name 'Macedonia' until the negotiations with the European Union begin and close capital. Note that it is possible that the negotiations with the European Union may not begin and if it starts in fact, do not move on to the funds, because there are strong objections from various Member States - Member States of the European Union. Therefore, it is possible here that the agreement never applies and that the texts with the "Democratic Republic of Macedonia" remain in force. Also, friends and friends, I would like to ask you with all the good faith: We are talking about erga omnes. If it is "North Macedonia" the name of the state and you accept it, is it not reasonable to accept in your own logic that citizenship should be "North Macedonian" and the language be "North-Macedonian"? Is it erga omnes? Who are you kidding? I think you can't even make fun of this. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we consider this to be a heterogeneous agreement. What we give is much more than what we get. I am not a isotope, but it is certain that we also give the name on the Greek side, we give NATO membership, we accept the term 'Macedonian citizenship'. It is a bad, heterogeneous agreement, which produces legal consequences. What do I mean? On 11 July, if it has been approved by the Skopje Parliament, NATO, Greece's agreement, will come and send a letter of invitation to Skopje to join the alliance. The procedures in NATO are different from those in the European Union which can be stopped at any time since they begin. All NATO experts say that once this process begins, it is without return. So the signing of the agreement by Mr Kotzias and Mr Tsipras on Sunday at the Prespes is crucial and that takes even greater proportions if we consider what has already been widely discussed these days, namely that we have a government which is deeply divided on this issue, because others are the position of SYRIZA and others. I have here a series of positions of Mr. Kammenos. It makes no sense to mention them, because after his statements that he will not vote for the memorandum, his subsequent statements which characterize it are his statements that he will by no means let Mr Tsipras give the name of Macedonia. And obviously, gentlemen of the ANELs, that is what you are doing with your current attitude and your current positions. You are preventing them from creating only fabulously next month. A record of political hypocrisy! Ladies and gentlemen, the government has no legitimacy, so to proceed with this agreement. It's not just me saying it. Mr. Tsipras says it's first of all. Mr. Tsipras says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u591	When did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u592	He said so, Mr Philly, on 10 July 2015, when he still had a parliamentary majority. Two days after the referendum, he came to this Chamber and asked - I have the Minutes of the House here - for the Minister of Finance to go to negotiate in Brussels on the memorandum. He went and negotiated it with the power of the House and then came on 14 August and we voted for it. Question: Why did Mr Tsakalotos need authorisation to go to negotiate on the memorandum and does not need Mr Kotzias, friends of SYRIZA and ANEL, to sign this agreement in relation to Skopje and all the related issues? Why two yards and two weights? I am tabling Mr Tsipras' statements in the Minutes. It's in the Minutes anyway. If you don't mind, look for them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, Mr President, I conclude that whoever tomorrow evening - and of course has the right to place himself in the way he thinks - has a vote of confidence in the government, supports the government in one way or another with his vote, in fact knows that he is giving authority on Sunday morning to the Prespecies in the morning, Mr Kotzias to sign an agreement under which NATO will send an invitation to Skopje to join the name of Northern Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u593	Sure. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u594	Mr. Philly, I'm not saying this for you, because I know you're always consistent in your positions. It is obvious where I am addressing and understanding myself. But curiously how, the ANLL party has so much sensitivity to the issue that either they are completely empty their seat or they are one - two Members during the debates. So tomorrow we all stand against our conscience. The moments are historical. We give you the opportunity to show what you are supposed to mean by your vote. We in the motion of censure on this government, a government that is incompetent, ideological, failed at all levels, do our duty. We believe that this government must go away, but also the whole House must be placed consciously, responsibly and nationally, because Greece is not worthy of Mr Tsipras's governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u595	Thank you, too. I'd like to ask that we keep the time, because otherwise we're all getting away and we're going until 2:00 in the morning. This is the plenary decision to keep the time. I would not like to do anything different as President-in-Office. I would also not like, Mr Hatzidakis, to give you any suggestions on the part of the Bureau, but because I, too, dealt with this issue, the interim agreement provided that no body could enter FYROM under another name without Greece's consent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u596	He can't raise any objections if he gets under the provisional name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u597	That's what I'm saying. I would like to give you an example of the fact that the scientific associations, the European Cardiological Society, had entered as 'Macedonia'. We objected and finally stayed as FYROM. But when President Bush proposed to join NATO, with the veto of Kostas Karamanlis, he did not propose it as FYROM, he proposed it as "Macedonia". And that's what it's all about. So the interim agreement banned it. Because as FYROM, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, it cannot have either language or national references. You're welcome, Minister. Do you want to speak or make an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u598	On the basis of Rule 97(4), which allows me to place myself on the table, I think that we will promote the public debate if I may be allowed to speak very briefly for five minutes, which the Rules allow me to do. Mr Hatzidakis made an extremely serious and mild speech, the first with arguments I have heard so far from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u599	Will you sit down for ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u600	Oh, no. Five minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] For those who complain, Rule 97(4) of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Minister may be placed on a five-minute basis and for three minutes each time. But don't waste time on the point of order. The President gave me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u601	The Minister may, when he requests to be placed, and indeed the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u602	Let us begin with one - in particular because of what is enshrined in the agreement, they can easily be contradicted. He says Mr. Hatzidakis: we're giving something to him. The application for NATO membership cannot be reversed. It's not like that. Not only explicitly does Article 2(4) of the agreement say that it is under the terms of the final ratification, but for our own legal order to join any country in an international organisation, the agreement in question must come to Parliament and be ratified. It is therefore explicitly foreseen that this ratification of the accession protocol will only take place if it has preceded not only the referendum but also the constitutional revision. So what you said wasn't accurate. Secondly, as far as the erga omnes is concerned, I said it in my position and you who are a serious man would notice it. Article 1(9) states precisely because the erga omnes applies that all new documents will be issued under the name of the country: Northern Macedonia. But there are existing documents, millions of documents, tens of millions of documents. It would be impossible to ask for these documents to be replaced once the agreement has been signed. For this reason, the existing documents and the maintenance of their validity are provided for in the transitional periods. Article 1(10) expressly states it. Third law. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is not required according to our rule of law. He commits the country. But it commits the country not to producing final legal results. As everyone knows, for an international treaty to come into force, it must come to Parliament and be ratified. And that's not just about Greece. In my introductory speech I referred to two very bad examples. The SART II agreement of 1993 was ratified by the Senate, not by Congress, and never existed. Finally, the most important thing is where your disagreement with another mild and serious person who honors dialogue, as you in this House, the President. The interim agreement provided for in Article 5 that we would agree with the other side to come to a name. That's why it was called an interim agreement. So the loose end, for which you accused us that we considered it to exist, exists because our country took it legally. Article 11 provided that we could not oppose the entry of that country under the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Indeed, in Bucharest, we have succeeded in not implementing this commitment under Article 11. And the Hague Court came and accepted that we violated the obligation of Article 11 without being able to condemn us to accept membership of the agency. So what you said is not entirely inaccurate, but it is like you accepting something natural for our country, which traditionally says that it respects international law and is the basis of defending its own rights, to tolerate the fact that a court has recognised that it has violated an international treaty that it has itself concluded, and that we must pass this through, without even being a matter for us and being seen as a pretext that we have such a judgment of the Court of Justice in The Hague. Finally, what I would like to say to you, because you spoke about the consistency of positions and because you are an honest and honest man, I will ask you directly: in the context of the national position, do you still continue to name the complex name as a core of that position?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u603	Mr. Hatzidakis, not to break...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u604	Mr. President, he has asked me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u605	Well, I'll give you a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u606	And the Minister has no objection. In relation to the court, we didn't say any different things. Don't look for any different. I said that the interim agreement said that Greece cannot prevent the accession of that country under its provisional name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u607	We're convicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u608	We're not convicted. Look out, I've got the court's decision here. The court makes a statement. There was a request from the Skopje to convict us. The court stood only on the first request from Skopje, which was a credential. In any case, what I said above is that in Bucharest with the then government of Karamanlis and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Bakoyannis, we went further, because our partners, over and above the spirit of the interim agreement, said in Skopje that if you do not do so with Greece, we will not even put you under a provisional name. That's what they said. One of the prisoners. Secondly, with regard to ratification and signing of the agreement. With the signing of the agreement, Skopje's parliament will follow and then NATO's invitation will follow. What I said, Minister, is that unlike the European Union, NATO's invitation to do so creates a fait accompli.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u609	Politics accomplished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u610	Politically and legally, because all the NATO familiars know that when procedures start, they do not go back, and that is why we ask you, for your part, to seek Parliament's mandate. And we ask politically, invoking the Prime Minister who came on July 10, 2015, while it was not required, on a critical national issue, such as our economy in the memorandum and the European perspective, and while he had confirmed the majority of the House yet, he asked for a broader consensus from this House, authorisation from this House for the Minister of Finance. While he has asked for Mr Tsakalotos' authority to go and sign, you are not asking today for authorisation for Mr Kotzias to go to sign. Two yards and two weights. That is what I said and that is what I repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u611	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis now has the floor for ten minutes. I would ask you to keep the time. We are in the'sixty-eight' number of seventy-eight Members. You realize that we need to make an effort to keep up with times. And don't have any personal conversations, because it's impossible. Or we'll continue until morning. Mr. Xydakis, please set a good example.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u612	Thank you, Mr President. Because we have entered a more serious and responsible atmosphere after the incidents of the last few hours, I would like to begin by inviting my fellow Members to see the great picture in which we are discussing the most important issue that prompted the Civic Opposition to table a motion of censure, the Macedonian one. It is a major foreign policy issue, depending on developments in our region and throughout Europe following the tectonic changes in 1989-1990 and, of course, in our neighbourhood with the terrible war in Yugoslavia, which has been divided by one of the largest countries in the Balkans in the years to come, resulting in what we have today: polyspermia, mosaic and potential instability. I think, therefore, that we need to see the big picture before we get to the crowns and the narrow controversy, weighing the country's strategic benefits, its interests, its balances and the role it can play. If we see that de facto for twenty-seven years Greece has become part of a diplomatic problem and we see that it can be the lever, the force to solve it, I think that is one step. It is a de facto unfavourable situation for us, because those who have participated in diplomatic delegations in the country know very well that, apart from large organisations, the United Nations, the European Union and NATO, in any international forums, FYROM is making a 'Republic of Macedonia' and you can do nothing. It's too hard to haggle to change it to get over. And it is endless waste of diplomatic capital, especially at a historic time when our country was troubled, devastated, ridiculed by people's brochures, by irresponsible politicians in Europe in the most virtuous way and caused reactions from discreet European politicians, to continue within a provincial introvert, in a phobia and in a total diplomatic immorality, the doctrine of immobilisation: "We are tempting nothing, we are leaving them as we have found, to continue to go." The historic juncture itself has imposed on us mobility after the bankruptcy of 2010 and all the loss of national sovereignty we have gained. The geopolitical context itself in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans urges us to take initiatives, take reasoned risks and move forward. The situation in the Balkans is not what many of our fellow citizens think. We are not concerned about the situation in Skopje, who is in Bosnia, which in Montenegro and what in Kosovo. So the situation in the Balkans for those who know and many of you - I hope - you are also reading the foreign press and the Greek press about what is going on is a situation in which there is still strong leverage from many foreign forces either with money or networks, either by sniffing, either through jam-financed or by safari networks. Everyone's playing in the Balkans. Only Greece is playing. He played for a while after the embargo was lifted. He peacefully made an economic, say, strong presence. It has affected both GDP and foreign investment in a number of countries. We're not in the same phase of spreading. We are now in a phase of containment, but it is still a hegemonic cultural power, respected, with far the largest GDP, with infinitely greater political and military power and always respected. However, this multiple leverage of the Balkans is not in Greece’s interest, in the interests of stability, in the interest of good neighbourliness and neighbours. I would remind you that in 1987 in the great Greek-Turkish crisis, Andreas Papandreou guided two neighbors to face the Turkish pressure, to then Zivkov, Bulgaria and Assad, Syria. We need these alliances, we need to have doors open with our neighbours. Let's come to the recent ones. We still have a dispute with Albania about the EOZ and the cemeteries of the Greek fallen. The former Minister, Mrs Bakoyannis, who handled the issues, knows here that we agreed to Albania's accession to NATO, we agreed and agreed to get Albania a status quo in 2008 and 2009. And our consideration - because when you give something, you have to take something - it would be the EEZ agreement, which we took from the Albanian Government and in a year and a year had taken it from the constitutional court with a very good argument, which has also proved to be how lame it was. What we did not know and came out after information and a confession of Berisha himself, who turned against Rama, is that the Albanian government has provoked but also suffered multiple levers from other foreign countries in order not to hold back the reason he gave. I would like to say that in diplomacy, and indeed in diplomacy with the neighbouring countries and the Balkans with the diverse and risky and fluid mosaic of history, monuments, ethnicities, races, it is not easy to win something without perseverance, without compromises, without great political patience. In the case of Skopje, many efforts have been made. From 1991 to 1992, too many efforts have been made, the anger of our own people has been released. Blessed, we won't judge it now. We respect each other's feelings and patriotic feelings. But after twenty-seven years, we must also weigh the country's present and long-term strategic interests. These lead to recognition of the neighbouring country under the terms of our package of national solutions and move forward. They have referred here and in a very sharp manner, especially from Mr Adoni Georgiadis, statements, situations, what others have said. And Mr. Hatzidakis reminded us of what old government officials signed. Look, the Left has been very clear on the issue of Macedonian since the 1990s to which the issue has arisen. He was clear, he had political costs. It wasn't a hundred percent compact. There were also people who were saying their opinion, but that is the essence of an extra-democratic socialism. However, the vast majority are ideologically and politically consistent with what is embassy and what is demanded by the juncture. We do not have the same consistency in the Conservative Party. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, in 2007 and 2008, accused Mrs. Bakoyannis of being dangerous. And Mrs Bakoyannis in her morning speech was very clear. He said in 2008 he attempted a broad political consensus to reach Bucharest and to reconcile the so-called 'national solution' to which all parties agreed within Parliament and disagreed with the extreme LAOS. The two most prominent members of LAOS, Mr.Georgiadis and Mr.Vorides, denouncing the Greek Parliament and directing the fates of the conservative party. That's the situation. The hybrids of Constantine Karamanlis and Dora Bakoyannis, the hybrids of the Mitsotakis family - the family with two members of the conservative party - are present and give a line. It's them. No one defends Kostas Karamanlis personally, no one defends Mrs Bakoyannis. We defend the right to remember, to judge and to reflect freely and impartially. I will end with two comments: one is for the European dark that threatens democracy and contaminates the European south. I mean the theories of unrelenting Christian or racial states which Mr Orban systematically exports from Hungary and to Germany and to the European south. We must take care of them as a serious danger. For the present convicts of the criminal organization behind nationalism are also hiding their national socialism. This is a remembrance. The nationalist may be a patriot. The national socialist never. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am sorry, Mr President, that I am going to use my dentistry to complete my thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u613	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u614	There's the flirt with the Golden Dawn orphans, which is tried and sentenced, the sentences will be heavy. That is why I am afraid that immunity will not be lost. That's why they want to come to elections without the trial being over. So the flirt with the orphans of cruelty or the perverted fellow citizens who think that the brutality and vulgarity of the brass is a political response, should reflect on all the nobles or those who believe that democracy is not assigned to some votes. One element is that. The second is the great historical responsibilities that we have in this House and in all the parliaments of the time of the great crisis and of the great recession, whether we are defending the democratic institutions, the culture and the consciences of the parliamentarians to defend their beliefs and to account for the citizens. Pressure with cries, betrayals, threats, hangings, the collapsing of this wounded feeling of a people who have suffered is dangerous. I would ask all colleagues to consider this. And if necessary, look back at the many and good books written about the political history of Greece of the twentieth century, about the time of division, about what Greece has taken in both 1915 and 1916 and 1920 and 1922 and 1930 and 1936 and throughout the post-war period. Exchanges of impulse between political beings are not political. It's an enemy's annihilation. We're not enemies. I, apart from the far right-wing and the post-National Socialist criminals, do not feel enemy to anyone. I may feel an opponent, a strong rival, a competitor, conflicting, but with political arguments, in the right sense. Neither with cries nor with embroidery in the lower instincts of the people who listen to us. They deserve much better reason, much better quality of speech, much better arguments for our fellow citizens and more continuous accountability. The appeal, therefore, to the present and the absents of Ethiopia, but mainly to the Greek people who are watching us, is that the present and long-term interests of our country cannot depend only on wounded feelings and demagogues who go into barrels and cause instincts. He wants responsibility, he wants seriousness, he wants love for the place, he wants care for the younger generations. He wants vision and pragmatism. What we are doing now will be collected by the next generations and judged by us. In these words, I believe that the absolutely legitimate parliamentary struggle for the motion of censure, the debate on the real motives, the arguments and the way we go, it is legitimate, it is here, it is in front of us. Everyone will judge and political life will continue on the same terms and requirements and after the rejection of the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u615	Thank you, too. As they spoke three in a series of Members of Parliament, they will speak six in a series of MPs, three plus three, namely, Mr. Theodokras, Mrs. Arabatzi, Mr. Katsikis, Mr. Salmas, Mr. Katsaniotis and Mr. Theocharis. I would ask Mr Theo-Conservative to have the floor and I ask that we keep the seven minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u616	Thank you, Mr President. I will soon start with two, three answers to the Vice-President of the New Democracy. Mr. Hatzidakis answered most of what you said from our Minister, Mr. Katrugalo. Listen a minute, Mr. Hatzidakis. I'm filling out some answers. Most of them responded by Mr. Katrugalo. The deal is not heterogeneous. You have simply kept the burdens of the other side in your word, which are more resentable. It is little to change a country's constitution because the neighbouring country imposes it. It was not inaccurate what the Prime Minister said in his report about 'Severna'. This is the North in their own language. And finally, he explained why the negotiation ended up not to be intransigent. It's better for us. And finally, do not insist - it is not at all reasonable and no national interest - that the authorisation must be preceded and then that the procedure should be followed in the neighbouring country. No, interest and that was won in the negotiation...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u617	We're not talking about ratification, we're talking about authorization.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u618	I know what you said. Same thing. If we vote once, then the neighboring country will come and say it doesn't pass through the referendum? That's what we've earned. Let's not lose it. Ladies and gentlemen, I come back to the motion for distrust, because the New Democracy first mentions the glass, which is supposedly cut off pension wages, supposedly imposed memos and taxes, and then, he says, a drop is the scorpion. Who? Those who bankrupt the country because of their mistakes and handed the country over to the hands of the lenders are blaming us? Our government is dealing with three main pillars: The first pillar is the exit from the memorials. We did it. Second pillar is the stabilisation and place of the country on a path of sustainable and fair growth for all Greeks. We do it and we will do it even more after leaving the memorials. Third pillar is to hit corruption and complexity. Justice is what Greek citizens want. We did it and we did it successfully. I participated in both the Committees of Inquiry and the Sea-loans in SMEs, in NW and PASOK, and in the scandals in health and literally, ladies and gentlemen, it has thrown my eye out. Because I saw the patriotism of the scandals. Reality goes far beyond imagination. The tricks that the political system has made, which is now putting forward a motion of censure, in cooperation with bankers and canalarchs, go beyond any imagination. What kind of air loans did we see, what kind of balloons? Such is also the "KERYKA" of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. What loans did they give to more banks? NW and PASOK gave the same guarantee of the Greek State to more banks. And all these sea-lovings paid for and paid for by the Greek people. You are and remain part of this dignity, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, and your debts prove it. Same and worse with scandals in health. Henry Dunn, CEDEFOP, NoVARTIS, medicine. As long as you're looking for it. What ninety million vaccines indisposed, what illegal assignments. Yesterday the litigation came to the House, the Minister of Justice sent it. What a purchase of a building with photographic layout and of course overpricing. What overprications of drugs and so much more. All this, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, has happened not only in your day and you have tolerated it, but you are also part of it. And you are still defending them in the committees. I will only say one phrase that the protected witnesses say: 'Politicians. What politicians? Those who hit us in the morning at medical conferences and at night in the buddies?" That's how they talk about the country's political system. And all this financed by "NOVARTIS" and, in fact, by the Greek people. The institutions of the country were rotten and, if Mr Venizelos were not speaking, we were supposedly dissolving the institutions that we received them rotten and dispersed. Of course, with the unmistakable, because many made their profits at offshore. It is now uprooted and the institutions are working on it and the country is working. This, unfortunately, has continued within the memorials. NW and PASOK, with one hand, got pensions, and with the other they continued to support the system of corruption and interlocutory. This political system has plunged home and it is not possible now to play over-patriots. That's all for the glass. I come to the drop in the motion of censure on the national issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two objections in mind. One is Dionysius Solomon "The nation must learn to consider what is true national. The second of Odysseus Elytes "The truth against death is given". The truth is that all or most Greeks with a huge responsibility for the political system did do not know and do not understand what is happening. The political system of New Democracy and PASOK, in the interior of the country, led us to cry out and call them Skopje and out there all called them Macedonians. Inside the country lions, internal consumption, and abroad cats. Let's go to the deal, then. I gave the answer before Mr Hatzidakis, because the authorisation must not be preceded. It's something we won, and we shouldn't miss it. Secondly, Mr Mitsotakis constantly repeats that we supposedly joined the Skopje and divided the Greeks. I don't see the neighbors, and they're very united. Where did he see that? And the Greeks will unite them by giving them the truth. That's the deal we get and we don't give. And I'm explaining why. All these decades the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have not resolved the matter. What is the result practically? All of them say "Macedonia" as well, with confusion with ancient Macedonia. All of them call "Macedonians" and their language Macedonian, with confusion with ancient Macedonia. In their regiment, they have alperatorial reports, their previous flag referred to Vergina and kept it in various places, their capital became an archaic Disneyland. Where are the screamers today? Why wasn't there a rally for all this? Why wasn't anyone yelling? All or most of this, we get back with today's deal. We are addressing all the sober Greek citizens and those who participated in the rallys and those who have patriotic sensitivities, which all of us have. Macedonia becomes northern Macedonia. Their constitution is changing and this is becoming erga omnes for both their interior and abroad. For the first time they clarify that they have nothing to do with ancient Greek culture, nor their language. They are forced to download all statues or to clarify that they refer to Greek culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u619	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u620	One more minute, Mr President. This agreement ends all forgery that we tolerated or rather tolerated, ladies and gentlemen, in so many decades. Therefore, all conditions of the national line are fulfilled. Complex name, by geographical determination, elimination of alpha-corrosion forecasts and erga omnes, against all, all the above. Thus, they have no excuse either Kyriakos Mitsotakis or Fofi Gennamata do not accept this agreement - let each Greek citizen think about it - when this is the national line that has been drawn up by all political parties, it is the decision of the government of Kostas Karamanlis in 2008. So do the Samara - Venizelos government, who said it in 2014 to the UN and now they come and say the opposite. They, if they had reached such a deal, would have supported it and voted for it. I close by saying that Greek citizens see the international neutral press, which is of course not a Syrian, how it presents the agreement. It's a retreat, they say, for FYROM. Let's see the reactions inside the neighbors. Finally, let us all consider that the major agreements - and I would remind you of the 1929 Greek-Turkish agreement after blood streams - remind the EEC after World War II - want political courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u621	I would ask all colleagues not to misuse seven minutes. The Member of the New Republic, Mr Arabatzi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u622	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Serres, come from Macedonia, and really I never expected that, as a Member of the Greek Parliament, it would be the day I would be at this step, in order to defend the self-evident: the history of my country, the history of Macedonia, not towards foreigners who are being sent to it, but to the government of my country, who decided to hand it over to another proud negotiation. I never thought the day would come when a Greek government would celebrate, adopting the false national pursuits of the neighbouring country. I never thought there would be a Greek Foreign Minister who would sign it, to call the citizen of another Macedonian country and the language spoken Macedonian. Ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, our New Democracy and our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis have been beating you the alarm. You have been told all months that the agreement with the neighbouring country must be nationally beneficial, respecting the sensitivities of the Greek people, our history, the endless national line, the patriotism of the Greeks. To obey the line of national interest which embraces the parties and the people with the power of national consensus, the national interest defended by the government of Kostas Karamanlis with the veto in Bucharest, this negotiating weapon, which is so naive and unconditionally granted. Unfortunately, you have ignored everyone, opposition, parties, institutions and above all citizens. You have beenhaved and behaved as representatives of Mr Zaev, but also of the scepticism of the Greek Parliament. Yesterday, listening to the SYRIZA MPs bailing in favour of the agreement, I was really confused if I was in the Greek Parliament. Why am I confused, though? Was it not you who, until yesterday, claimed that Skopje should be called "Macedonia" as well? Now, I imagine you're also accepting northern Macedonia is making a terrible retreat and overcoming. That is why the motion of censure we have tabled against your government is the last option. It is the only option that gives us the Constitution itself to prevent this agreement, which, if it is signed on Sunday, creates febrile and irreversible consequences, leading our country to a certain national defeat, as reflected in Article 8, where the setting up of a scientific committee to examine - says - how the teaching of history in the two countries is in order to eliminate corrosion reports. But at last, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, do you realize what you're introducing and what you're signing? Just accepting a debate on this article constitutes an unscrupulous national retreat, not to say anything heavier. Our country, in other words, which has suffered over the years the epitome of altruism, propaganda, the graphic attempts to steal our history from a state that has set up false Alexanders and Buffaloes to build history and its altruistic pursuits will sit on equal terms on the same table as yesterday's counterfeiters of our history to negotiate and agree on what, ladies and gentlemen of the coexistence? Our long history, our culture and our language? Have we reached such a point of national irrationality? In fact, how do you feel that Greek historical books can teach albumism to Greek students? Do you think the same thing about Amphipolis - the Minister of Culture left - this undeniable universal monument of culture, this undeniable witness of Macedonia's Greekity, which you leave without shame for three and a half years now buried, abandoned and despised? The most creepy of all, however, is the incredible assignment of Macedonian ethnicity, Macedonian language to the Skopje. You are the government that validates Macedonianism, i.e. Skopje's nationalist ideal for the so-called divided Macedonian country. You are the government that sells those materials - citizenship, language, name - that constitute and build a state. You are the government that gives all the arguments to representatives of scepticism in order to claim in future that their so-called Macedonian nation can expand beyond their borders. After all, this is the idea of Iliden, the Macedonian idea in Macedonia in Macedonia, the idea of Great Macedonia, not only of the small Slavonic part of the Macedonian part of Pirin, but of all Macedonia to Macedonia of the Aegean. Besides, the Prime Minister told you clearly and without any confusion the other day in his interview with state television. He said: “I disagree with the motto that Macedonia is Greek. I agree that the Greek Macedonia is Greek." Ladies and gentlemen, this motion of censure will reveal tomorrow night and the smugglers of this unholy government alliance. I refer, of course, to the MPs and the ANEL ministers, together with their leader, the Minister of Defence, Mr Kammenos. And since I have heard a number of ten words by the ANE ministers about supposedly straightforward words that - allegedly - they do not vote for the agreement, but they support it by nails and teeth of the government signing the agreement, I will tell you to the Skopje Bulgarians of your friends in Skopje that, ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs, on Saturday night, they do not have a dva politika, that is to say, a double policy. In voting against the proposal for distrust of the New Democracy, you are signing with both hands Mr Kotzia's agreement in the Prespecies. There's no other interpretation and no other option. There's no other way out. And your leader's excuse that you will vote against the agreement when it comes to ratification in the House is yet another carabine mockery. So if you are cut off, ladies and gentlemen of ANLL, for Macedonia, this is a glorious field. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Drop the government, which, with your support, will sign wide wide and smiling the assignment of history and the deposit of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u623	Mrs. Arabatzis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u624	I shall conclude, Mr President. I only got nineteen seconds. Ladies and gentlemen of the ANELs - because of SYRIZA's celebration of the deal - you have a few hours by Saturday night. It is better to choose the fall, despite historical desecration, to lose the chair and the government, rather than Macedonia lose its historic achievements. Now sacrifice your authority not to sacrifice history and country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u625	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u626	Mr President, we are here two days, Mr President, and everyone gives one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u627	I personally spoke six minutes. I didn't use time. And this is because the risk that some of our colleagues will not speak requires that we respect the time. It is a question of respect for those colleagues who want to speak. Because if we talk ten minutes, the first three minutes and the last three minutes, that is not respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u628	But that's true for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u629	Mr Katsikis, Member of the ANELs, has the floor. Please keep time, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u630	Thank you, Mr President. From the outset, let me beg warmly for your tolerance in time, even though I'm from 11:00 in the morning here. They told me I'd talk at 13:00. Of course, I'm not the only one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u631	All of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u632	Yes, I said that I am not the only one, but in any case, please warmly ask the President for a little tolerance in time. Ladies and gentlemen, the hypocrisy that is developing in this area today is notable and will remain with indelibly written in the minds of all of us, since history is actually written today. There is a history written by those who renounce their own responsibilities, who undoubtedly renounce the historical facts and which we inherited, trying to blame those who managed to create a coup d'état, the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état. I have carefully looked at the motion of censure which you have tabled and on the outline, in the conclusion of this proposal, to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we must exercise all the right conferred on us by the Constitution and the democratic institutions of our country to prevent the creation of harmful achievements. And I ask, who are you kidding? Are you kidding us? Are you making fun of yourself or trying - and that's where we will try to prevent you from getting it - to make fun of the Greek people, creating false impressions about what is going on here today? What are we really talking about here today? A preliminary agreement is being discussed or your motion of censure, which has political influence, has political motive. What's the target? To get that government down. And you really think you're gonna make it? So you say in the motion of censure that you would use every instrument, right and law of the Constitution to prevent what? Another disagreement between SYRIZA and ANEL? I ask you directly and answer me. Why so many disagreements so far have you not made the slightest effort to prevent them? I'm talking about the disagreements that SYRIZA and the ANELs had with the various bills we've been through. We voted against, we built and you supported as pillars of these bills. Why didn't you raise a statement then? Because, really, the Greek people should listen to what kind of right-wing people you are. You are the right ones to vote in agreement on the cohabitation of homosexual couples, you are the right ones to vote for legal identity, you are the right ones to vote as a takeover by homosexuals of minors and you are the right ones to vote in cremation of dead and Muslim mosques. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I say it not because you don't know it, I say it so that the Greek people can hear it, once again what kind of right you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u633	What does your dad say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u634	I'm sorry? Did you talk about my father now? You give me a nice pass. My father therefore supported the government of the late Constantine Mitsotakis, which Samaras threw. And you come and tell us we have to do the same. The example of avoiding coming and taking us as an example of imitation. Shame on you! We swore an oath to the Constitution and homeland to observe the laws. And as a sworn Member I now reply to the honourable Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, as a sworn Member I respect the laws and oath I have given and the sworn servant I stand next to my fellow citizens. We don't throw a government, ladies and gentlemen. We don't imitate Samara. Rejoice him! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And I wish to live when the historian of the future reveals why you and the Mitsotakiko, especially the Mitsotakiko, accepted his return to New Democracy. I wish I could live because I still don't understand. Of course, the other Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis, spoke of a handful of votes. You know what? I personally take several handfuls of votes from the neo-democratics who leave you and come to us, the Independent Greeks. Do you know what else? You have lost many handfuls of votes from the President of the Independent Greeks, Panos Kammenos, and you cannot yet dignify that this great power today of the Independent Greeks, in a small party but a great voice, has deprived you of too many votes! And he deprived you and cut you off and your course towards power. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So what about the handfuls of votes and, in any case, if we have the political will to say five good words about some members of the New Democracy, you will not tell us that we applaud and applaud the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you have managed issues, you have left your political stigma, you have left open foreheads that you have inherited to us. You're not unresponsible. It is precisely because you are not in vague responsibility that you have been ambiguous enough to come to the point where you will be dealing with this national issue. And I believe that you have not decided yet, or at least you do not dare to tell the Greek people your official position. To begin with, you would define it according to how the small one with the large government partner will determine his position on this matter? May I continue to say that you spoke of the Bucharest Treaty and today when you saw the rallys, in which you forbid Members to participate, are you changing course and adapting it according to what it characterizes you, namely populism and demagogy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u635	Who forbids?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u636	Sit down! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u637	You want me to remind you of all this? Well, I remind you. Listen to them from a new Member who has been watching you for many years and has served you. Listen to them from a Member whom you betrayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u638	You're going to get applause! You're not ashamed! You're a genocide!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u639	So you're people with sterile criticism. Motion of censure, that is your decision. The easy solution. But you're hiding, ladies and gentlemen. I grieve to say it, but you're hiding. And the worst thing is that you are mortgageing the future of the country with your place, as you do not have the courage to inform the Greek people of acts, omissions and decisions that you, yourself in the past, have made, leading the country to today's position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance. Do me a favor, I need to talk. We, the Independent Greeks from the beginning have clearly said a great 'no' to the concession of the term 'Macedonia'. We have opposed the counterfeiting of Greek history, we have condemned the attempted falsification of our national identity, we have opposed the intrinsicization of our political heritage. On the other hand, you of the Officerate Refugee deny your share of this, the management of a national issue of modern Greek history, and renounce your responsibilities. Of course, there's an explanation for all of this. How dare you take a clear stand when you have in the past acted upon you? When you have spoken of a complex name, with a geographical definition, when you have managed negotiations, when you have first-class executives who have opposed alternative proposals, including the term "Macedonia"? Will you finally tell us what your position is at last? You won't tell us today or tomorrow, and I'm convinced of that. We will never know your official position, because you lack the political courage to appeal to the Greek people with correctness and honesty. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, what exactly are you asking the Independent Greeks? Can you tell us exactly what you're asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u640	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u641	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u642	You're in the second extra minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u643	Are you asking them to fire the government? We're not going to shoot her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u644	We're not asking for anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u645	You ask. What about the main? You refuse to take responsibility for the impoverishment of Greek citizens. You refuse to defend the resolution of public life, you refuse to give substantial responsibilities to those who led the country to the edge of the cliff. Fortunately, however, we are not all the same, and that is why you are fighting us rampantly, because we are the ones driving the national economy into a positive sign and not you, because we are the ones who are confronting the policies of the past. We're the ones who solve the bonds that kept the country in a hostage. We are the ones who work with passion to change Greece and give the Greeks their lost dignity back. Be sure that we have not yet completed our work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u646	Mr. Katsiki, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u647	I shall therefore conclude with one phrase and apologise for the derogation in time. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] It is not our ancestor or modern intellectual this phrase, but the great writer Victor Ogkos, who reveals our country's position on the global precinct: "The world is Greece that is expanding. Greece is the world that is being swept away." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u648	New Democracy MP Mr Salmas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u649	Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps some of you have pointed out that I was one of those Members who, although I belong to CSR, had wished that the government would succeed. I have said that my permanent position is that the four-year-olds should be exhausted and guaranteed constitutionally in a subsequent constitutional revision, to be a serious state. So today I have a more difficult role to explain to the Greek people because I signed the motion of censure on the government. Obviously, I think that deferring many commitments to the economy by the current government may not be such an important reason for the government to fall. Nor was the promise at first to a rapid closure of the evaluation given last year, which was not done, and you said that it would be done without measures, but that it would be with EUR 5.1 billion new measures, which is a reason for the government to fall. Nor is the promise to join the programme of quantitative relaxation, which has not been implemented, a reason for the government to fall. Even the unsuccessful debt agreement is a reason for the government to fall. Nor is the commitment to a high growth rate - which has not been achieved - a reason for the government to fall. Nor would the promise that the government would negotiate surpluses for 2019 2.5% and 2020 2%, and that it became 3.5% by 2022, is a reason for the government to fall. Because, dear friend Costa Katsiki, you know very well that I've never had a micropolitic on the ANELs nor entered this micro-party confrontation, I'll tell you what we're asking for from the ANELs and I'll tell you straight away. Does your party have in its founding statute a declaration that it is not allowed to use the term "Macedonia" in the name of Skopje? You're making fun of yourself. The answer is 'yes'. I was listening to a radio the other day in the morning at a radio station. Has your President in Thessaloniki pledged to take this 3%, that he will not support the term "Macedonia" and will he not allow it? You're just condescending, which means you agree. At these meetings, your President promised and promised that he would drop the government if he tried to put the term "Macedonia", yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u650	I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u651	You didn't hear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u652	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u653	So I say to you, with the responsibility of this Step forward, that he said, 'I will drop the government if he uses the term 'Macedonia'. That's what we're asking you to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u654	Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u655	Look out, that's just what we're asking you to do. And because, unfortunately, you are the only party that can prevent the term 'Macedonia', I would like to tell you that to the people who voted for you, promising what we said, it is not enough not enough not to vote for it. You promised you'd fight to prevent it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u656	That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u657	That's what you're doing today. I'm glad. That is why I signed the motion of censure to do so tomorrow. With simple words, in order not to say much, nor with tension, this simple thing, which you committed to the Greek people, you must do tomorrow. That's why we signed the opportunity to give you the opportunity to do what you promised. It's over and out. Ladies and gentlemen, I have participated in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for many years and I know the pressure of the United States of America and many NATO countries to get Skopje into NATO. Obviously, the accelerating parties to this debate that began at the end of last year are not Greece, because, obviously, Greece has managed the United Nations Organization to be the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. It is a name that is obviously not happy for a country to be called the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and now it will be called Northern Macedonia. So, let me get this straight, does this country get lost or won? In any case, if this was the government's initiative, and it was very anxious to solve this problem, what problem did Skopje have for us all these years? The juncture that is now coming to this debate isn't it before the NATO summit in July? So, you're not getting an invitation to join the country, the neighbor, to NATO?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u658	It's the deal. He says it in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u659	So he'll get an invitation. That's the point. So, does our country win by getting an invitation? Turkey is in NATO. What did Stoltenberg say? He said, "Find it between you guys." So, what's he gonna say tomorrow when there's gonna be a problem with Skopje? ‘Rediscover them among you’. Is there the theory that if he enters the European Union something will change? What will change is that Greek businesses will go to Skopje more easily - as they go to Bulgaria, so that they do not trouble - with 10% tax to attempt. I don't know what the good is for the country. I haven't seen it, Mr. Philly. I would like to ask a question, however, and perhaps I will close with it, because obviously I do not have to say that neither the Macedonian nation should recognize nor do I think the government is entitled to do so. The question is: What profit for the country? What did we win? I understand why Mr. Stoltenberg is celebrating, I understand why Mrs. Merkel is celebrating, I understand why the American factor is celebrating, but I don't understand why the country is celebrating. And I really cannot believe the voices that say that you have accelerated the resolution of this issue in this way for exchanges to the rest of the economic policy issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u660	Thank you very much for keeping time, Mr Salma. The next speaker is Mr Katsaniotis, Member of the New Democracy. Then Mr. Theocharis and Minister Kontonis will speak. Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u661	The whole Right talks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u662	Uh, I guess the Left doesn't want to talk, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u663	The Left doesn't want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u664	What Left? You, Mr. Philly, it's interesting to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u665	Please, Mr. Katsaniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u666	Ladies and gentlemen, following developments in the sceptics, everyone realizes that Greece today is governed by the Left of "Yes, in all" along with the ethnicists of "We sell everything", by a group of people without any political barrier, without any ideological limit, a group that arrived in power by scoffing not only the votes but also the hopes of the Greeks. And either because they believe it, like SYRIZA, or to remain in power, like the ANELs, they give everything of opportunity to Skopje. Even the historical identity! The worst fear of those who have complained from the start of his left 'yes', in all things, is unfortunately taking place. He does, with the specific agreement with Skopje, the economic crisis of a national, an agreement that we reached after an unprecedented secret diplomacy, with Mr. Tsipras and his Left "yes" not want to form a national line, informing parliament, parties, about their actions. Now he commits another crime against the country, the most serious, the unforgivable. Now the government is signing an agreement. Those who burned the American flag run the embassy to get congratulations. Now, the left of "yes" delivers Macedonian ethnic and Macedonian language to Skopje. Now the famous erga omnes is sold, allowing the Skopje to be called the international Macedonians. The national retreat takes place and is complete. Partners all decide to support the government. Now, they're gonna put their signature on the Tsipra-Kotzia agreement too. We are not told 'We support the government, but we do not support the agreement with Skopje'. Those who support the government let Mr. Tsipras go on Sunday to the Prespes. They support the bad deal. They recognize Skopje as Macedonians. Those who support the government give the passport for Macedonia's entry to NATO. You're giving the country's most important negotiating weapon. Why? Have you received any consideration? Have you got anything wrong with the bad strangers? Greeks, gentlemen, can't stand any more humiliation, can't withstand other retreats. Those of the government majority believe that it is a good deal, let them say it clearly and publicly. Do not seek excuses in the past to justify their current attitude. Let's say they agree to call themselves "Macedonians" the citizens of Skopje and "Greek", as the Prime Minister, the Greeks, said. Do you realize the crime committed? If you think it's a bad deal, just resist. Get the government to change the deal, not sign the assignment of Macedonian language, Macedonian ethnicity, Macedonian history to the Skopje, not sign the assignment of the name, do not bind the country by hand. That's what we care about. First solution, then joining. No invitations from NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kotzias and Mr. Tsipras negotiated without us. They're preparing an unscrupulous deal. They're left and they think there shouldn't be any borders at all. Internationalists. Mr. Friend said it very well. "We are the powerful who oppress them." But, as Mr. Tsipras said, we will all be judged by history. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the ANEL Members, not with their presence, because they of course do not honor Parliament, but through the Bureau. We do not know what will be the composition of the next House. But now we are here, in this House, and the ANLL Members have the duty to say 'no' to this agreement, this agreement that Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias are ready to sign as government, also counting their votes. If they support the government today, from tomorrow Skopje will be said, all over the world, Macedonia with the bogey of ANEL, there will be a Macedonian nation. Support from ANLLs to this government means validation...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u667	What's their name now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u668	FYROM, sir. You don't know that? FYROM are called.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u669	What do the Americans call them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u670	That's why he's passing through us. FYROM are called. Why are they burning to take the name, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u671	What do the Americans call them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u672	Do they care how Botswana tells them? Why do they want your signature too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u673	What is this, Mr President? Is that a hooligan?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u674	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u675	Why do they want your signature? If the Americans tell them otherwise, why do they want yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u676	Don't interrupt! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u677	What do you want with her? If you believe in the deal, come on up and support it. Never mind what others say. Don't hide behind anyone. If you believe it, you vote for it. We're all here. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u678	Mr. Katsaniotis, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u679	And you're honest too, if you want. You never thought Macedonia should not be said. But those who play patriots must be here and tell us their opinion. The story is written today. Those who are gone...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u680	Read some encyclopedia yet, ma'am. Read any "PAPROS" you. This isn't funny. We're talking about home. Whoever votes is making his decision. I understand the president of the ANLEs, Mr. Kammenos. He's learned in the long life. He likes cigars, helicopters, Monaco. He doesn't vote to keep the chair. The rest of the ANEL Members do not waste their faith at home for six months in the parliamentary seats. Do...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u681	Let the man speak! Is that possible, Mr. President? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u682	Please help the Bureau. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u683	Mr. Georgioda, don't worry. There's the generalization of...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u684	Keep going, Mr Katsaniotis, but don't hold a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u685	I cannot resist, Mr President. Finally, it is clear that anyone who believes that this is a good deal, who believes that this should be done, should do so without hiding behind the past. To take the burden of his personal responsibility and say 'yes, I agree to be called Macedonians, yes, there is a national unity'. He'll be judged by the story. Those who have no right to it are the so-called patriots. They won't forget the story. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u686	Thank you. Independent MEP Mr Theocharis has the floor. Mr Theocharis, help with the time-conservation of the Bureau. You've got seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u687	Thank you, Mr President. We're always trying to keep the time. But the moments are historical. And I would like to confess, ladies and gentlemen, that it is, indeed, very difficult and the reflection is enormous about what you will say today and what you will vote on tomorrow. Only truths, in fact, can save today's moment, only truths that must finally take the place of hypocrisy we live in. The Independent Greeks have the potential to prevent this agreement, which we are told to be destructive, but they still do not prevent it. They're cutting the deal, but they don't really want it. This hypocrisy cannot continue, because we are turning the House from an institutional dialogue and transparency to the temple of blackout and division. It can't go on. I refuse to listen. I'm really sitting here so long and watching the conversations and we're going back decades, with fine politicians, not in historical terms. I can hear Mrs Christodoulopoulos talking to us about docologists. Are we listening to 2018 for dosingists? I hear people from the right wing forget that they ruled both in 1950 and in 1960 and were able to prevent things from happening in Titus. Mistakes were made and this problem was left and it got here. I hear the Left telling us that she will solve a problem, while she will only become communist Greece, she would accept the name "Macedonia" and take it as a country. Are we going to have the conversation on these terms? Under the terms of the civil war? By 1950 and 1960? The country needs unity right now. We're a state and we have interests. And this is an inalienable term and our interests are first. But to defend interests, you want unity, not division. We've paid him very expensive in our history. And the interests, Mr Philly, you defend them with sobriety and rationality. You don't defend them with feelings and showers. Nowadays, there has been a competition for the diplomatic body to get the new diplomats. Who do you think we're taking? The hottest heads and the most emotional or colds, computers and rationalists? They can negotiate for the country. So two are the questions that a non-aligned Member should make to make a decision on today's debate and tomorrow's vote. Firstly, are we only voting on the issue of this agreement or are we viewing the government as a whole in all fields and economic for example? The second question is whether the agreement itself is right, is good or not. If we were to talk about finances, you would get under the base, because you stole the poor because you fooled them. The previous governments - I have told you and the opposition does not tell you - have stopped in destroying the middle class. The poor only you had the comfort, saying you're supporting them, stealing them. Mr Samaras did not accept a pension of 10 euros under the 1,000 euros. You received the 600 euros pension and you made it 400. That's the reality. You take under the base in the economic field, because you are mocking these poor, the weakest in society, with the alibi that you are circulating in the western suburbs, and of course with a lightning that is based on: that you have not brought bankruptcy. You didn't bring her. In 2010 you had 4.6%. His paint still passes as an argument. This is your argument. So since you have not brought bankruptcy, you can go through all, the hardest and worst measures. But I do not hear you say about the future, about what the country will be like in the coming years. You don't say it, but the worst part is you don't know what it's gonna be like. And you don't know how you want it to be. In fact, we are simply leaving the country to the automatic pilot of the memorandum and everything that is done, whoever finds a job and whatever terms. We exchange unemployment with poverty at work, with 200 euros, with people who wait and watch television in a newspaper and when there is a lot of people and they need more people in the funds, then they take them and they say, "Come and get paid for the minutes you sit on the fund." That's what happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u688	Where's that? Tell us we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u689	That's what's going on. You rule. Send the O.R.D. to find out where it's going. I will not be accountable for your own governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u690	You're accountable for what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u691	The New Democracy, however, and Mr Georgadas, were convincing that we really need to focus on the issue of the agreement. Of course, I know that the purpose was the government and both extremes of the government, SYRIZA and ANEL. But I think it was convincing and that we should actually judge with much more narrow criteria whether this agreement is beneficial or not and what we should do. The first thing we have to say, of course, is that, obviously, you have received a bad situation. He was trapped and frozen in a situation which is not positive. And it is not good for the interests of our country either, because the country is growing up with the right relationships when it is really a pole of stability and not just if it says so. Of course, no one was pushing you to solve it. There is no reason to resolve the matter from us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, this agreement is in the context of the fixed Greek positions. Both in the erga omnes and in the geographical definition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u692	Mr. Theochari, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u693	I shall finish, Mr President. But we must explain why we want this in a way that every Greek citizen understands, as I will understand, but my mother, who is a Macedonian, is from Thessaloniki. What do we have to say with this deal? First of all, we want good neighbourly relations. We don't want the evil of our northern neighbors. We want co-development. We want to help them, to receive financial compensation, and together to develop. Secondly, we must say: "According to the percentage of course you are Slavs, and this has to be written and we have to see how it will be written, because with your responsibility there is still blackout, you accept that you have come in recent years, in recent centuries here. You have nothing to do with the Greeks. You are not Macedonians in this sense, but you have developed your own, the different Slavic, let me say it, culture. You're not Bulgarians, you're not Serbs. You want to stand out from the rest of Slavs and therefore borrow the geographical designation of Macedonia and call yourselves "Macedonians". That is what we have to say and that is what we have to say. So how we're gonna say it is very important. That's the most important thing right now. Does the deal cover that? Not all questions are answered. How exactly will the preamble be written? Why trade issues in the committee? How will they agree and come to the table when the proceedings have begun? Why in article 13 do we give EEZ? What does that hide? Why does NATO not only take in prencipio the decision to say with a dissolved sect and our own Parliament's decision and theirs?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u694	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u695	And I shall end, Mr President. Why don't you answer all these questions? We also need compensatory benefits, we need investments to be made through Thessaloniki and northern Macedonia. It takes a lot. So the balance is too difficult. And it's hard and why this deal isn't judged now. He's judged next. If we say 'no' to this agreement, how can we ensure that we do not lose much more? "Slavumacedonia" accepts it? Whoever I ask accepts the Slavmacedonia. Twenty-five years ago, however, we did not accept it, and now it would be positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u696	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u697	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are the important questions and the Greek people must listen to them. What does it tell us, gentlemen, that we won't be chasing North Macedonia twenty-five years later? On the other hand, why did this study and why did the division that you, gentlemen of the government, have caused? Because you are losing, because you have failed finances, you want to sow the split, and overthrow this situation, the ugly thing, for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u698	Please finish, Mr. Theochari. Don't make me interrupt you. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u699	But this is not how the country is governed. Where's sobriety? That's what we need today. So this balance, with the government's responsibility, cannot be easily answered at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u700	Following the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Kontonis, Mrs. Inglesi will take the floor and will be followed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Drasakis and then three MPs, Mr. Vlachos, Mr. Antoniou and Mr. Theocharopoulos. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Stavros Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u701	Thank you, Mr President. The first thing I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, is this: I note from the point of view of the Officerial Representation a rhetoric of pressure towards the Greek Independent Party. They call on all tons of this party to vote in favour of the motion of censure. It claims that, since the Independent Greeks are against the agreement, they should, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, cut off the road to the Prespecies and drop the government. If this is your central approach, you yourself should call the Potami, which is in favour of the agreement, to vote against the motion of censure. But you're on two boats. You call on the ANNE to vote in favour of the motion of censure because it is against the agreement, and at the same time the Potami to vote in favour of the motion of censure, which, although in favour of the agreement, criticises the Government for economic policy and all the others you are referring to. So hypocrisy goes far too far on this issue. So tell us what the motion of censure you bring is based on the agreement with which you do not agree or rely on the general policy pursued by the government? Because, if the latter is the case, then the ANLLs are right to vote against the motion of censure. So let this rhetoric of disinformation stop, this rhetoric of the other applies to one case and others to the other, but to one party, but to the other and adapt to your proposal. Your proposal is a motion of censure. So stop this political cat. Ladies and gentlemen, many people have said that today's sitting and its end tomorrow is of historic importance because it finally closes a twenty-five-year loose end. I will say that it is historic for two other reasons. The first is that for the first time since Postpopulation they were heard by the Step of the National Representation, which leaves no margin of misinterpretation, urges Greek officers to fall back on the offense of last treason. It's the first time that this has been heard. And I think it doesn't take much thought from any Greek citizen to finally understand the political starting point and direction of the neo-nazi gang of the Golden Dawn. When these things are heard by the Step of Parliament, no one can make the misled one and, indeed, when the memories of the dictatorship are still fresh, the murders, torture, the crime of Cyprus. But, ladies and gentlemen, how does the door open in the neo-nazi format? We will never say that New Democracy is a party that is identical to these views. But I would like to tell you that the extreme right-wing rhetoric you are indulging, the patriopathy and the lack of arguments - Mr Hatzidakis was the only one who heard something different from saying, and if I may disagree radically, he answered Mr Katrugalos - it is entirely identical to the neo-nazi speech of the Golden Dawn. You have huge responsibilities for what has happened today and what has been happening in Greek political life in recent years. For you, I repeat, on a permanent basis, legalise - a quasi-legalisation, that is - from the back door this ideology, this policy, these people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the motion of censure, but it focuses on the issue of the agreement in particular. And you're telling many of you of the Officer's opposition not to hand over Macedonia's name to the northern Republic, the neighbouring country. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are either in constant irrationality or at last adapt to the reality that you have created. Is this a democracy without a name? Is it an anonymous Republic, or is it a democracy that Greece has consented to in the composite name 'First Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia' and is this how it works in the UN?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u702	As a temporary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u703	Well, that's what we're telling you. That's what you accepted, the provisional composite name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u704	Not as a final.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u705	So this, Mr Kumucako, is your creation. You accepted this situation, and you were right to do so because it was a way out before the UN could accept this democracy under its constitutional name. You did well. Today, you come and say "No, not "Macedonia" in the name". You also notice something else: that this Republic does not only operate within the framework of the UN with a complex name, but operates in the international area on the basis of its constitutional name. One hundred and fifty countries in the world have recognised this Republic under its constitutional name, the Republic of Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, many words are poverty. Constantine Mitsotakis has spoken about these issues, which has been mentioned many times at this meeting. In 1994, he gave an interview with Mr Panagiotopoulos, former Minister of the New Democracy. He then said the President of the New Democracy and former Prime Minister: "Today there is the possibility of reaching a solution of nationally accepted, the best possible, taking all the package of confidence-building measures, where there are all the other things we are talking about today. We are talking about the star of Berna, the hostile propaganda, the Constitution." That's what Mitsotakis said in 1994. What doesn't the deal include? All of it includes even more. And then the President of the New Democracy concludes: “In my view Greece should accept, otherwise we will go to Macedonia and it is unacceptable hypocrisy, in the name of national pride and intransigence, that we agree to remain in that state “Macedonia” and not to accept a complex name.” I am presenting in the Minutes the memorized interview by Constantine Mitsotakis. If you want, read it, you'll get wiser. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The question, however, is that correspondence is found here. What does the right and the patriots say in Greece? That it's a betrayal agreement, that we shouldn't vote for it, and that we're giving everything to the Skopje. And what does the right and the nationalist circles in Skopje say? The same things, except their government grants them to Greece. Absolutely matching views. Doesn't that bother you? Does it not concern you that Mr Gruevski said yesterday that the agreement that the government of his homeland accepted is much worse than the one he rejected in 2009? Read Mr. Gruevski's statement. Aren't you worried about all this? [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But, apart from matching, there are also mismatches, because the progressive Europe, the Left Party, the Socialists, everyone welcomed this agreement. What's the domestic Central Left doing here, which wants to be called that? It's against the deal. Let Mrs Gennamas be concerned, because she has always become the 'black sheep' of the Socialist Eurogroup, not only on economic issues and on the progress of the government, but also on serious issues such as what is now solved after twenty-five years. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to see how the previous governments negotiated. I was in Cyprus last week and I was in my hands the newspaper "FILLEROS" on June 10, where there was an interview by Mrs Arveler. So Mrs Arveler informs the journalist of a debate with Mr Pineiro on Macedonia. Here's what she says about you, your government, Mrs. Arveller! Mrs Arveler was introduced to Mr Pineiro by Mrs Simon Vail as a Byzantineist and she is told by Mr Pineiro in a debate of the following arguments. I read just from the paper. "But, well, Pineiro tells me, why doesn't the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs tell us this?" I am amazed to hear you say: 'What does it say to you?' ‘Nothing.’ That's the answer. "As soon as we say the name “Macedonia”, Gencer cries last week, he hit both his hands on the table and said, "No crying, arguments." And Mrs Arveler concludes: 'We are still waiting for the arguments'. That was the government's negotiator, Mr. Samaras. So we went to the international forums, so we thought we'd give it a solution. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, because of this critical issue, citizens of serious and scientists who have put their opinion on many issues and are not with SYRIZA, on the contrary they have strongly criticised, have said that this agreement is absolutely positive and constructive for the country. Nikos Alvizatos and Mr. Nikos Maranzidis do not believe anyone to say that they are with SYRIZA and make "platforms" to the government. However, their statements are revealing what is expressed in the agreement. We may disagree with many things, including Mr Alvizatos and Mr Marangidis, but read their statements, read the detailed analysis they make and say that it is an absolutely positive agreement, which works for the benefit of the country. I conclude, Madam President, by saying what I said at the beginning, the third reason why this debate is of great historical importance. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow New Democracy actually signs the death penalty of its party. After the vote you can leave and rename your party to 'Spring Policy' and upload Mr Samaras to 'principal president'. It will be a logical conclusion to the categorisation that your party follows on to this extreme right-wing and nationalist rhetoric, in this event that has no end. The drama for you is that it combines this situation with what Constantine Mitsotakis had tried to convince the Greek people and the party itself a few decades ago. But know that your transformation into "Spring Policy" does not only matter, it will also have politics. Because after your conversion to 'Spring Politics' your policy will follow. I would remind you that Mr Samaras may have appeared for a few years as the one who had profits from popular discontent, but in the end he was offended because of these words and his policy. Because the Greek people can at some point be indignant with certain things, but in the end they are judged as a whole. And like Mr Samaras, he has led him to the political anonymity you raised from, so he will send you to the same political anonymity. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u706	I would like to call on you to respect time, both the MPs and the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u707	After you let him speak for seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u708	Yeah, 'cause I don't want to interrupt. Otherwise, everyone on the list will not be able to speak. I cannot, however, make the ranger either, and I cannot displease the speakers and dissatisfaction them with the plight. Mrs Catherine Iglez has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u709	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that in this sun country all the important events are happening in the summer. It is also apparent that the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL has been responsible for solving the chronic problems posed by the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. It was summer 2015, when after a hard negotiation with our partners and after an honest but difficult compromise, we took the responsibility of leading the country out of the memorials with the occupied Greek people upright, leading him out of the memorials, which were led by the policies of the Governments of Nea Democrat Republic and PASOK. But much more, ladies and gentlemen, it has led us to the corruption and interlocutory regime created by these governments. Then, in the summer of 2015, this project seemed almost impossible. He used to fantasize in a hectolitre. The relation between the European Union and the view of the European institutions was nothing but positive for the new left-wing government. We had to fight with the monster of neoliberalism, which was powerful in Europe, which showed his teeth through Mr. Soible, who wanted to kick Greece out of the Eurozone to punish the Greeks who voted left and to example the other peoples of the South that seemed to be turning to the left. But the extreme neoliberal voices in Europe did not succeed, as did their domestic followers. In the last thirty-four months with hard work, overcoming the obstacles and avoiding the trillions put on her by her opponents internally and abroad, she managed to succeed where all the Memorandum Governments had failed. The economic and social policy of the government has managed to penetrate the few and narrow rams that left the suffocating memorandum and create a shield for those citizens whose memorandum policies led them to absolute poverty. Solidarity became the first and main concern of this government. Since, however, the only way to avoid poverty and combat unemployment, which in the memorandum years has reached unthinkable levels, is economic recovery and growth, this government has achieved the highest growth rates over the last ten years. And because development is not coming on its own, but it needs development tools, this government has finally taken care of it: forest maps, spatial and urban planning, maritime planning, new national waste management plan, and dozens of other development tools that finally make our country a modern European country, and not a debt colony and the Banana corruption that the governments of previous years have made. We arrive today in the summer of 2018 with the people standing, as promised, to come out of the memorials and recover the part of our national sovereignty that we had assigned to our partners. We arrive in the summer of 2018, where the international community excellences the Greek Government for its responsible and consistent attitude, which fights corruption and leads the country to growth. Siomple did not achieve his goal of humiliating the Greeks and leading them out of the Eurozone. But he and the other extremist neoliberals succeeded with their policies to erupt the worst of the monsters, that of the extreme right, racism and fascism. Thus, we see extreme right-wing and extreme nationalist parties increasing their electoral rates and participating in governments not only in the poor and indebted South, but also in the rich north. And in this griefful situation, two Balkan countries with left and centre-right governments, whose unscrupulous inclinations of previous governments on both sides wanted them to be hostile, we see an agreement which will lead them to a common future of friendship, peace and development, and of course the whole international community to welcome this agreement. We are therefore coming, colleagues, to the other long-standing problem that you have created and this government is coming to solve today. Who is responsible, ladies and gentlemen, for a hundred and forty-nine countries, have recognized the neighbouring country as being 'Macedonia'? Who is responsible for the fact that for twenty-five years this country has been robbing ancient Greek history? When you said "complex name by geographical definition", what did you mean? We are told that we are giving the name 'Macedonia'. But Greece has been officially calling it Macedonia for twenty-five years. That "M" can tell me what it means? You say we give the Macedonian language. Refer a little to Penelope Delta, to Evangelos Averov, to the UN decisions. You say we empower the Macedonian nation. Who is responsible for the fact that for twenty-five years our neighbours have been traveling with documents called 'Macedonians'? Ladies and gentlemen, from your premiere to return to your favourite government chairs, which you believe to be yours inherited right, you do not accept the self-evident ones. Ladies and gentlemen, let us repeat them if you understand them. Our neighbouring country will now be recognised internationally, as in its constitutional name, by geographical identification. They recognize through the agreement our neighbours have nothing to do with ancient Macedonian culture, that their language and ethnicity are of Slavic origin. They're willing to change their constitution in terms of anti-corruptives. They take down the symbols of ancient Macedonia. They're changing names to airports and streets. They change their history books. What better and more would you achieve, and why didn't you do it for twenty-five years? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we choose to move forward, on the path of development and responsibility, on the path of friendship and solidarity between the peoples, on the path of peace and cooperation in the well-known region of the Balkans. You choose to be consistent with the extreme right. You are hostages of Samaras and the extreme right elements he joined your party. With your attitude, you devoured the monster. You have released the most reactionary reflexes because, apart from the current extreme incident within Parliament, two days ago there was a cover of a booklet, for which the prosecutor thankfully intervened, entitled "In eight meters like Belogannis". So let us remember who Belogannis was, let us remember the booze of dreams, the booze of people with a quote from his apology that then shocked the international community in the far 1952, but not its municipalities. So I read you the words of a true patriot and not a patriot: "We love Greece and its people more than our prosecutors. We showed it when freedom, independence and integrity were at stake, and we are fighting for better days in our country, without hunger and war. To that end, we also fight when necessary, sacrifice our lives. I believe that you are putting the fight for peace today, and you are in Greece on trial." I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u710	Now the Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Drasakis. Mr. Drasakis, you've got ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u711	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that the motion of censure has the opposite of the results sought. Its aim was not to agree. Bad lies. It appeared from the speeches. The aim was to destabilise the government and set up an anti-government front. The result is, on the one hand, the political strengthening of the government's majority and, on the other, the uncovering of the contradictions and deadlocks of the opposition parties. We've heard it and heard it every hour that it passes. The New Democracy, in the face of the dilemmas and the necessary choices we need to make for the future of the country, chooses the path of demagogy and introverty. He is the expression of a dreadful and static Greece. In the difficulties, liberalism and Europeanism fall back. They're being unusable. But the worst part is that with her attitude, as I had the opportunity to say the other day, she gives an alibi to the Golden Dawn and to all that we lived in the morning. The Change Movement, on the other hand, seems to reveal what we said at the first moment, the limits of a policy of equal distances, the limits of a policy based on 'neither, nor', the limits and deadlocks of a policy, which is trying to shape itself in the vacuum, when there are such critical dilemmas and so hot problems, to which one needs to take a stand. The dogmatic "repression" leads this space to all these differentiations and contradictions, which are now evident. Finally, the Communist Party of Greece with its attitude today cancels the clear position that it had taken in 1992, plunges into dangerous areas with theories of alkali seeds. And I would like to say at this point that analyses which interpret all developments as NATO mandates, which the government is carrying out as NATO official, and those which are contradicting what the JRC has been trying to say over recent years and reliant on this mechanical theory of dependence. The point we need to realise is that NATO and the Americans can exist with a solution to the "Macedonian" and without a solution to the "Macedonian". In fact, one can think of what will happen if it is not solved. Will this country be maintained as an independent state, or will it end up with a protectorate of the Americans, the Germans or anyone else? We are, however, the ones, who cannot live with unresolved problems, and that is why all this analysis of the JRC and some other forces are unresolved. The public, therefore, in the position of all the parties I mentioned, is that they do not have a positive proposal for the future. We didn't hear anything. What's the perspective? Don't let the deal pass. What's going on? Waiting for what? And until when? What is their position for the Balkans? Do they have any opinion on how the Balkans will develop? How will our own relations be formed in this region? I would therefore say that the debate is becoming even more useful because it allows us to see - not in the narrow sense of the agreement but also in the wider - what are the strategies that are being formulated today for our country and for its future. We have heard a strategy, which is the warfighting of the Golden Dawn. On the other hand, we have a strategy, if we can call it that, a fearful attitude, as I said, to the problems of doing nothing. In this context, therefore, the government's strategy is the only strategy that responds to today's problems and domestic and external issues. However, I would like to take this opportunity to say that since the 1990s, since the major geopolitical changes that have taken place with the collapse of the status of existing socialism, we have created a strategy from the beginning, not to say a vision based on the following basic assumptions: Firstly, that the Balkans are historically assured of wars, oppositions, nationalisms and therefore only as an area of cooperation can they have a future. Secondly, that the Balkans have some common comparative advantages. Not only Greece, but our entire region is a place that unites Asia with Europe, the South with the North. Our ports are gateways not only for Greece, but for all the Balkans and for all of Europe. So these comparative advantages or together we can use them to the common advantage, or this will be at the expense of the development of the region. That is basically where the idea of co-development comes from today. The third basic principle is that at present the Balkans can have a future not only as an area of cooperation, but as a structure within the European Union, as a subsystem within the European system. The Balkan cooperation must be seen in the light of European and Mediterranean cooperation. I would say here that the Mediterranean is the sea for all the Balkan countries and not the Baltic Sea or the North Sea. And we must convince the Balkan countries that we must go together. The fourth admission is that, in order to build this common future in an area with so many traditions of wars and disasters, it is not enough to make a case for some governments, including everyone, but it must be the case for the people themselves. This is why the toxicity that is being created today, that some forces poison parts of the world by risking, destroying, etc., also has wider consequences. So we had this possibility in 1990 and did not use it as a country. We have destroyed it through magnificence for penetration in the Balkans, for economic conquest of the Balkans, which the Balkans would be our country, with all this expansion through lending and the consequences it had. So the agreement must go ahead, since it meets our basic interests, as a compromise agreement. Let's hope it's going to the neighboring country. All this must be done not for ideological reasons, but for real reasons, for reasons of people's lives, for the future of the region and for the economic development of the region and - I would say - for Greece and especially for northern Greece, but also for the wider region of the Balkans. Long ago we had the Development Conference in the Region of Central Macedonia, and I remember the Mayor of Kilkis in a debate that we had one of the problems they had. The problem was that cars leave Kilkis and they go and fill gasoline on the other side. And we've been discussing some motives and we need to find motives right away. But what is the prospect? So, if this problem is not solved, what is the future of the development of northern Greece? I fear that it will be a development through a paramilitary economy, through smugglers, without strong productive potential. On the contrary, if we manage to solve this problem, the first to benefit will be the inhabitants of northern Greece. This certainly does not mean an unconditional solution, but a solution that, as the most skilled ones say, has the basic elements to move forward. I shall end with the tolerance of the Bureau for one or two minutes. Since August, then, we have been entering a phase where Greece can become a force of initiative for the wider region of the Balkans. I have to say that from ambassadors we see, from ministers from other countries that we see, from government officials that we see, this is done with relief. It is good for other peoples that Greece is coming out of the crisis and can therefore play a role in the Balkans and that this space is not monopolized by other powers, large or medium-sized, which have other designs. We can therefore move on to such a perspective and ensure the future of our country as well as the wider role of the country as a protagonist and guarantor of this effort and that course. Finally, we must ignore the fact that these historic achievements of nationalism too, through a policy of developing prosperity with common benefits for all, can only be dealt with in this way. Our strategy therefore has two strands: an internal one, which is about exiting the memoranda, and an external one, which is about this wider Balkan co-development. This is the only strategy for the future that sets out a coherent, concrete vision for both the future and the country and the region. These two arms of the procedure are interlinked. In order to be safe against external risks, the country must, on the one hand, develop in a fair manner and, on the other hand, internal development is helped - not to say that it has as a prerequisite - by not having an outbreak of tension, an outbreak of danger or, if any, being controlled abroad. Obviously, this plan - we do not live in clouds - must go beyond resistance - and here in our country we see what is said, but also in the region of the Balkans more widely - and because there are internal forces which in the name of certain interests or nationalistic egoism refuse to enter that logic, but also because the Balkans are an area of geopolitical conflicts and conflicts of interest. So, in order to move forward, there must be an object. There must be a wider front, a front based on common sense, common needs, common interests. A common sense and progressive front is therefore needed in order to be able to move forward in this direction, beyond the agreement itself. This very forehead will be with the actions of all of the social actors, trade unions, scientific organisations and citizens themselves. We must, in other words, adopt a broader concept of diplomacy. Diplomacy is not just a matter of foreign ministers. Diplomacy is a matter of the people themselves. We therefore need to thank the New Democracy, because with the motion of censure it has given us the opportunity to discuss and discuss more widely the future of the country and the future of the region, the strategies that we have before us and the means with which we shall proceed. I personally believe - as I said - that we will get out of this debate with the government majority strengthened, but also with stronger efforts and stronger awareness of the need for what I have called a wider progressive front that we must create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u712	Mr Vlachos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u713	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to comment on the speech by the Vice-President only. I do not know, Mr Vice-President, whether you are going to get any more enhanced figures in tomorrow's vote. I'm sure you're going out with more responsibility. That's a fact. And that's what creates us all these objections all these days. We are trying calmly to put our thoughts on this agreement with the neighbouring country, which, after discussing several months and with little - I would say - was announced by the government. In this period all Greeks had information about the discussions, mainly from leaks, but also from the disputes between our neighbours and less from the government's official briefing. There is now an attempt to include this agreement within the national line. The national line is the successful outcome of the process in Bucharest. The New Democracy and me personally, ladies and gentlemen, we are honoured to identify the national line with the face and policy of Kostas Karamanlis. But let us really remember what happened in Bucharest. Kostas Karamanlis and his colleagues achieved the unanimous decision of the Assembly of NATO countries: first of all resolve any differences between Greece and FYROM and then start the processes for NATO membership and thus the European Union. I mean, you're just gonna find them first, and then we're gonna open this thing. How Costas Karamanlis achieved this decision, what alliances did the veto threat and what cost he received from this process, I think they are all known. It's worth remembering that Karamanlis was hit, his government fell. He loses the election because the Greeks forgot Kostas Karamanlis' patriotic attitude and were trapped in foreign and local, it's true, Vatopedios-type scandal. What was the context of this agreement that Greece set at the time? The lack of a Macedonian nation, the lack of a Macedonian language and a commonly accepted name. That was officially said then. For every use, of course. But basically the debate then never started. It never began, because the neighbours rejected any change in their Constitution that would eliminate their perfume and which Greece would make as a precondition. The mistake of the current government, let me say the sloppy approach to the matter, is that the negotiations today started where it had to end. This is also apparent from all the discussions that have taken place all this time, and here in Parliament, where all the government officials, ministers, MPs, colleagues have constantly asked us all about the name - 'What are you saying'? - Like by the name we have to start. Colleagues, the name may not say anything at all. But he can say anything. The agreement shall be assessed as a whole. First, you're going to set the alpha-corrosion targets and see the neighbouring country's eyes and then, apparently, you're going to end up in a commonly accepted name. That was always the target. That's him today. Except you're changing the show. So where was the national line kept? Nowhere. It opens up or leaves open national land-use issues, leaves the subject of language open and the use of the name. Mostly it destroys Karamanlis' basic success: first agreement and then accession. This is because, regardless of when the Greek Parliament will ratify the agreement, it produces legitimate interests, legal results directly with its signature. I come to the famous erga omnes. I would like to remind you, like many other colleagues, of Article 1, paragraph 10, that, while in international use within five years they must change their name, connect internal use, use internally, with the accession process, with all the risks that Mr Hatzidakis might have, which Mr Hatzidakis has explained, and I would like to repeat that. So where is the one name for each use? Already here since the beginning, we have seen two names. Today's acronyms, as provided for in Article 1, paragraph 3e and 3i, remain, the abbreviations of the name and discussions on trade names and marks are referred for the future. The government begins with the signature of a process which will hardly have been returned. We all have to understand that. This means that now and now, we need to make interventions, correct the problematic points of the agreement. The vote tomorrow on the government's manipulations gives it the opportunity to continue the negotiation. To remove the "Macedonian", the name, either from the nation or from the language. To actually implement one name for each use and to shield the agreement with international commitments. With asterisks and fine letters, ladies and gentlemen, national interests are not protected. Neither the invocation of arguments, what happened in 1959, what happened in 1977, although there are statements by people who participated in those delegations and who strengthen the arguments of our country, nor what did a hundred forty and fifty countries do. After the hundreds solved the problem, what do we want after ten years? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And to remind you, because it goes a little unnoticed - and I shall end, Mr President - that the wave of forty countries came to punish Greece and Karamanlis after his stand at the referendum in Cyprus with the Annan plan. That's the point. And we invoke this and say that, okay, people loved them. People didn't love them. It was also appropriate in this trap, I think, that no one should enter, to tell things straight away. But if the government even gets a majority tomorrow, having all the parties and the Independent Greeks on the subject of substance, against what agreement and handling can it make? Will this agreement, then, be able to proceed? Won't he come to the House sometime? The Annells say they will vote against it. The Opposition brings together tomorrow with its attitude in the first step, not giving permission to go ahead with this agreement. What do you think, when the deal comes, it will be voted on? So you don't understand a dangerous front that opens tomorrow? I would say that this should give you more concern and lead you to change this agreement. Greece, as you know, claims nothing. We respect international agreements and bilateral agreements. However, we must send a message in every direction that we will not grant anything. When Karamanlis resisted the great in Bucharest, he knew very well that he was in danger of not returning as Prime Minister in Greece. This did not prevent him from doing his patriotic debt, because his only criterion was defending national interests. That's why you can't make a card use of the decisions of the past. And the caramanlic approach to the end - either analysis or theory, as I will say, or you are all embracing it or rejecting it as a whole. Mean doesn't exist. The decision will be yours. Our decision is to vote 'yes' on the motion of censure, because we do not want to give the government the right to proceed with this particular agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u714	The Minister of Justice has called for thirty seconds for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u715	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. In my speech I made a reference to the inclusion of chrysayers in the LAOS vote. I said that four members of the Golden Dawn had joined a ballot led by Mr Georgiadis. I was informed by Mr Georgiadis, and I accept the explanation he has given me, that he was not the head of the LAOS ballot in those elections, and that is why I would like to make it absolutely clear to the National Representation. Now, where the LAOS is politically we all know that. You, Mr. Voridis, know where the LAOS is. The second thing I would like to say to you is that, following an order of mine under Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the order of the competent Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, a criminal prosecution was brought to the point of crime against the criminal Code against the MP of the Golden Dawn Mr Barbarousi. There is already a procedure for the prosecution of this Member. I wanted to inform the National Representation about these legal actions. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u716	Thank you. Mr. Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u717	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you were wondering what the deepest and most important reasons for tabling the motion of censure by New Democracy and by Mr Mitsotakis, I think this is beginning to appear and become clear and clear after the two-day debate in this House. It is not the 'Macedonian'. They are the inner-party problems and deadlocks of the New Democracy and the different lines and approaches that exist for the issue at the Officerial Response party. Hence the absence of a positive proposal on the subject, as shown by the debate in Parliament so far. I have listened very carefully to the views of the New Democracy colleagues who spoke yesterday and today. I have noted with regret, by some, not all, a dissatisfactionful political reason, which turns us back many years into the logic of the national criminals, the national and rightly thoughtful ones and the traitors. We have been through this many times in the past, and our country and people have paid it dearly. Some seem to have not put their minds in the name of any sacrifice of resurrecting power, as the legitimate owners of the country, have decided to play even the paper of national division. After playing the paper of destruction and not coming out, they decided to change their field of controversy by choosing a privileged and well-known field for them, the patriotocaust of patriopathy and the exacerbation of nationalism. This will not, however, come to you, ladies and gentlemen, because the Greek people are now more mature and wiser after the adventures and economic disasters they have experienced since 2010. I now come to the "Macedonian". I am not going to mention the historical dimensions of this loose end that the current government has inherited. The time-consuming responsibilities of all the previous governments have been recorded and highlighted, namely, how this state on our northern border guaranteed its constitutional name as the Republic of Macedonia, how almost a hundred 50 countries, including the most powerful of the world, have recognized it by that name and how it time-contained the language as Macedonian. All of this has been recorded and are the objects of historians. They were the results of the mismanagement, in conjunction with the policy of inertia, non-activity and atmosphericity followed over the past few years, and especially after the dismantling of the single Yugoslavia, which, unfortunately, have created negatively featuring for our country, which cannot be completely reversed. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached solves many of these issues in a positive way by Greece: Firstly, it fully responds to the national line for a complex name, with a geographical definition of erga omnes and a constitutional review guarantee. Secondly, all the provisions of all the public aspects of the state are deleted, Constitution, School Books, Public Buildings, Symbols, Flags, etc. Thirdly, its new constitutional name will separate that this state is only part of the whole geographical area of Macedonia. Fourthly, Article 7 of the Agreement makes it clear that this country is in no way a historic continuation of ancient Macedonia, whose history and culture constituted exclusively Greek case and heritage. In the field of language, it is clarified that the language of the northern neighbours is a South-Slavic idiom and that it belongs to this category of languages, without any connection with the language of the ancient Macedonians. This is an integrated agreement that for those who bother to read it, they see that it covers all the outstanding issues in detail and leaves no room for ambiguities and different interpretations, completely covering national positions and concerns. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, in August, comes from the eight-year memorial adventure. Yesterday we voted on the last prerequisites that are finally paving the way, so that we can move on to debt regulation and write down. It is this noose that the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK inherited to Greece and the Greeks. All efforts, all the forces as government are now focusing on it and we hope that on the basis of a positive result, which will put the tracks of growth in our country and the prosperity of sustainable, sustainable and fair growth. This is the prospect that frightens the New Democracy and the old political system of interlocutory and corruption, which is crumbling and tempting. And in her panic about this perspective is pushed by various circles that see their prerogatives shaken into a blind confrontation and panic movements, such as the motion of distrust. But once again you will get the answer you need. This government still has a way and perspective. What we started will be finished at the end of the four-year period, when we will have completed our work, the Greek people will judge us all and you and us. Until then, be patient and calm. And one last thing and I'm closing, Madam President. I am a Macedonian MP and a Macedonian from a grandfather to a grandfather. I am not slapped or touched by threats from extreme nationalists and traders of patriotism. Like the ones that were launched from the Step yesterday by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiodas, and other Members who followed, unfortunately. I respect the sensitivities and emotional burdens of my well-meaning fellow citizens on the subject of the 'Macedonian'. However, I believe that politics is done with logic and not with emotion. Greece, our country, must move forward. We cannot have the past blocking us in a horrific, closed and refreshed in its historical laurels. We need to solve the gordic ties that set us up. Greek Macedonia, Thessaloniki must become the centre and the real economic, cultural capital of the Balkans. Macedonia, a land and a land blessed by nature, must, in the coming years, take the lead in the Balkans, lead development with a plan and with a new dynamism, and be a pillar of stability and peace in the multitude of the Balkans. In this perspective, I am committed and will serve consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u718	Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u719	Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between our country and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is in a positive direction. In particular, the proposal provides for a complex name with geographical identification, erga omnes, with an international agreement and a revision of the Constitution with binding guarantees to prevent the issue of netting. This is the national line followed from 1995 onwards. In 1995 with the Interim Agreement, in 2003 the government of Costas Simitis with George Papandreou, in 2008. Of course, there are also problematic points in the agreement, such as the issue of citizenship and language, but also other issues, such as trademarks, for example, which are referred to procedures which are doubtful whether they will lead to the safeguarding of national interests. It is, of course, a fact that the 'Macedonian' agreement is a compromise and, as such, it cannot be entirely satisfied with any side. Therefore, SYRIZA's celebrations do not correspond to the need for a responsible attitude. The implementation of the agreement no longer depends on Greece, but mainly on the actions of the neighbouring country. FYROM remains to prove that it can implement what it has signed. We have repeatedly stressed that we want a sustainable solution, sharedly acceptable from both sides. Expansion of the current stain poses a risk that only Skopje will be served by the de facto monopoly of the name "Macedonia". In addition, our political area has attempted to resolve the problem, which has been maintained and extended by the New Democracy policy. The Government continues to display dangerous turbulence with bilingualism within it and the extremes and contradictory statements by the Independent Greeks. A few days ago the press conference of the Minister of National Defence Panos Kammenos was truly humiliating. He actually wanted there to be no agreement from Skopje, on the other hand, and at the same time he said he would not vote for it when it comes. Mr Tsipras' celebrations following the outcome of the negotiations do not help, as the truth to the Greek people is required and not a communist propaganda to serve micro-party objectives. On the other hand, New Democracy - which has over time the primary responsibility for creating this issue - with its constant retreat and transformations, does not contribute to the formation of a national line. The position of non-defaulting in this matter does not serve national interests. It is unacceptable that the New Democracy still holds this position today. Our space, the Change Movement, must remain uncircumcisedly committed to the choice of political autonomy, which must be proved daily in relation to the deadlocked government policies, but also to the unacceptable way in which the New Democracy is opposed. And I am essentially speaking, because SYRIZA and New Democracy are fully responsible for the political and divisional climate that has been established in this major national theme. Ethnicism, which was in the form of the squares of the indignant, SYRIZA before 2015 basically supported him. The same is happening today in the corresponding way in the events and in the rallys. In fact, the organisers exploit the agony of a world in a way of nationalist, which is totally unacceptable. Our position on the need to resolve the 'Macedonian' remains stable. We are constantly seeking a commonly accepted solution rather than a continuation of the present deadlock. It is time to solve a problem that has been lagging away for twenty-six years, poisoning the relations between the two countries. It is a problem that enables Turkey to play protection games for the Balkan peoples, which are allegedly threatened by Greece, but also a problem that actually fuels hatred, from which extreme right and fascism come. This is what we have seen today with the Golden Dawn and these unacceptable actions, which in fact prompted a military coup - and this is what the Members of the Golden Dawn, as we have all seen, applauded. Because then we saw that it was deleted. But the images - I think - say it all. The solution can turn Greece into a peace factor in the Balkans, and it creates a strong shield against the country's tensions with Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also clear to us that we are not going to give any vote of confidence to this deadlocked government, which accumulates anti-social policies with the recent vote and the plan, with the additional burdens on the weakest strata. That is what we will do in today's motion of distrust against the government, as, among other things, the proposal states that three and a half years now the government is poor on the part of the citizens. Indeed, it has committed the country with severe cuts in pensions and wages. Indeed, he increased taxes and succumbed to public property, with insecurity dominated everywhere and with damage to the functioning of the institutions and the rule of law. Indeed, the government's overall policy for three and a half years has been completely deadlocked. Female primary surpluses for the coming years, which reach 5.2% for 2022. Lies for clean exit, which were heard a while ago here. There won't be a clean exit. There's a deeper entrance to the crisis. Reduction of pensions, reduction of tax exemption - Mr Tsakalots is still forcing him to reduce duty-free - and a subsidy policy for the recycling of poverty, which has nothing to do with it - because you mentioned just now - European social democracy, which supports social policy areas and supports these sectors and not create poor ones, and then simply with benefits to recycle poverty. Returning to the 'Macedonian', ladies and gentlemen, the recent view of the Prime Minister in a television interview that the vote on this agreement will clearly come to Parliament, and will take a vote of confidence as well as the position of the government partner in the 'Macedonian' will further increase the demand for political change. That is why we must not allow Mr Tsipras to do what he did in August 2015, that is to say not to make any commitment on his part and only to ask for a responsible attitude from the opposition, and he does not even have the necessary majority in his government. The vote on the agreement, when it comes to the House, must be accompanied by the Prime Minister's commitment that it will immediately proceed to the election call, given that on a crucial national issue it will prove that it does not have a real government majority. I remain firmly committed, ladies and gentlemen, to the national line and the responsible attitude that we have had from the very beginning in this crucial national issue. In these difficult hours for the country, with open national issues and the economic crisis at its peak, the place needs a strong and united progressive party. The project of the Change Movement, our project, by setting up a new body by parties and movements, must move forward and move forward with unified mood, pluralism and extrovert action in society. We are determined to overthrow political correlations, today's dead-end political correlations, so that we can give the solutions that society requires, progressive solutions for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u720	Mrs Annetta Cavadia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u721	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to what creepy things have been heard a few hours ago in this Chamber by the spokesman of the well-known neo-nazi, fascist, criminal organization, who, despite the developments - his deletion, his declaration of repentance - clearly expressed views of the whole Golden Dawn group, which the parliamentary group used to override. I would just like to say one word on the basis of what has happened. I would like to say that when you cultivate the ground for fascism and nationalism, do not expect roses to flourish. In other words, the "bad" Golden Dawn will always lose the battle of impressions on the targeted extreme right public from the genuine Golden Dawn. And the notion is. From this, then, the Stepma, the Left, SYRIZA invites all democratic citizens of the country, whatever political party they may be, to join us on a front against the right-wing, nationalism and nostalgics of the black past of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of the motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition, using a top parliamentary tool. It is interesting to see the time when this motion of censure is being chosen in order to understand the real motives of this choice. It is commonly acknowledged that in August our country came out of the hard commission of the memorials. This is not an easy way out, but it is the result of the bloody effort of our people to reach this point. This exit from the tough comitology, I repeat, has become successful thanks to the political lines drawn up by the SYRIZA Government. It has been accomplished thanks to the cracks that we have exploited in the context of the negative correlation of forces with which we have been confronted. It is a great step forward, a step that panicks all those cycles that have gone bankrupt, to the benefit of all their pockets, the circles that first envisioned the left parentheses, and then they dreamed of cuts and new measures, which have been hoped and invested in the government's failure and which are ultimately falsified. The New Democracy, as a genuine expressioner of these circles, is now in a strategic deadlock, because of this very positive conclusion of our national adventure. For years they smuggled public finances, feeding the "weighers" and triggering the crisis. Then they put the country in the memorials, then pinpointed our failure, and now they have to find a new line of concertation of their audience, after Mr. Mitsotakis' previous accounts have failed miserably. And he chooses to do so by betting and escalating the controversy on the Macedonian issue, tabling - a few days before the Greek debt crisis - a motion of censure. I wonder why this rush, why this premiere? But it is clear, because the carpet continues to be pulled under Mr Mitsotakis' feet and his attempt to keep his balance does not hesitate to align even further with the patrioted voices within his party. Patriotous voices that did not hesitate to attack even the President of the Republic, asking him to go beyond the limits of his constitutional powers, knowing that this would constitute an institutional diversion. In this unacceptable request by Mr. Samaras, the leadership of the New Democracy did not see it react, offering the silence of unforgivable coverage and confirming that Mr. Mitsotakis is, indeed, a hostage of Antonis Samaras. However, in the essence of what the New Democracy says, if we want to stand, disregarding the pretext of its request, it is still impossible to understand the meaning of the motion of censure. Do you memorize, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government because it has managed to illustrate that our neighbours' language has nothing to do with ancient Macedonia, but that it is a South-Slavish language? Is the cause the composite name by geographical definition, which includes the term ‘Macedonia’? But this is the common line of all political leaders since the 1990s. Were all traitors? And Constantine Karamanlis? And Constantine Mitsotakis? Honestly, the only patriot is Mr. Antonis Samaras, who was expelled from your party and threw your government, just because he had a line from all the other leaders of your party? Have you thought, ladies and gentlemen, of what self-determination are you going into with your attitude? Do you or do you not know that today over a hundred and forty countries between Russia, the United States, China, half the world's population, recognize our neighbouring country as 'Macedonia'? We are also living in the international organizations, which we are involved in, Mrs Bakoyannis. Macedonia is the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and I see no reaction. So, can you explain to us how the furious reactions of our neighbours' nationalist parties are consistent with our alleged treason? Can you explain how you imagine economic cooperation and development in the Balkans? How do you want Thessaloniki to become a Balkan economic metropolis when you are opposed to solving problems with neighbours? Do you realize that, as long as we spend time finding a solution, we undermine peace in our region? And, in the end, let us answer from now on: Who gave us the right to insult, mock people from neighbouring countries, their elected leadership, their own situation? Ladies and gentlemen, consider what paths you choose to follow. Consider the consequences of your extreme right defoliation. Consider that the investment in the patriocardial cave only has caused suffering, as many times as it has been chosen as a way of political confrontation. And one last thing, and that's what I'm closing up with. There are moments like the ones we live in, where the absence of some people is more than noticeable. So is the absence of Angel Elefanti, who I am sure on Sunday, seeing to the Prespes, and he, like us, will smile from somewhere, keeping the October - December 1992 issue of the magazine "Colitis", with the inspired title: "Greek Macedonia is Greek". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u722	Mr Yoyakas will now be given the floor, and immediately thereafter the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kouvelis will follow. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u723	Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with Skopje once again shows that this government cannot manage the big issues of the country, that it is prone to its political survival and not to the national or public interest, that it only cares to divide and cause. It has even reached the point of invoking historical leaders of our party to blame us as supposedly opportune and inconsistent. We leaders honor them, respect them, and we are proud of them. The New Democracy, however, has been consistent since the beginning. We had said at the very first moment what any agreement with Skopje should not be in breach of. We want to tell the citizens, because the government has once again gone under the bar of its expectations, why it is coming to endure with its manipulations and on this matter the country's future position. We disagree on three levels. We disagree on the substance. We disagree with the timetable. We disagree with handling. As far as the substance of the agreement is concerned, the so-called 'erga omnes', i.e. a name for all uses and to everyone, is actually annulled, because you are not clear here and now what is going to happen with the names, names and trademarks. It shall be cancelled by references to ‘Macedonian language’ and ‘Macedonian nationality’. The first is an invention, without a historical and linguistic basis. The other, "Macedonian citizenship" is not even in line with the word "North Macedonia". Recognizing a so-called "Macedonian ethnicity" and a so-called "Macedonian language" you commit a double crime. You lay the foundations for depreciating the complex name in the future. Who and why use the "North" next to Macedonia? The second crime is that you leave the window wide open to continue the claims of wretching, propaganda. Pour water into the tree of scalp, instead of plucking it out. So neither the erga omnes nor the end to aluterism. We also disagree with when it is taking over, who and what. You are paving the way for Macedonia's accession to NATO and for the start of accession talks with the European Union before the agreement comes into force. The terms of the agreement on the name and its erga omnes use in and out of Skopje will take at least five years until they are fully implemented, that is, because our neighbours have joined NATO and accession negotiations have started. You are giving us all our negotiating weapons before you lock up even what you have agreed or think you have agreed. I come, ladies and gentlemen, to the last part of our disagreement, that of the political handling of the negotiations. We knew that the government was undercover and that she liked to surprise herself, because she thinks she has her advantages. We have seen them in various bills, amendments, ministerial decisions and others. By being secret, however, in the big national issues it is unforgivable, because it may be nationally harmful. There is no wish to seek a common line of cruising with the other parties. We had no official briefings until after the announcement of the agreement. All hidden or with your favorite leaks. Now, you are ready to sign the agreement without having agreed to Parliament's approval and without, of course, bringing it for ratification by Parliament as soon as you sign it. So if everything has been done by Skopje, as you expect it when the agreement will come months later to be ratified by Parliament, it will be too late to get what we will have granted. Then, gentlemen, most likely you're not in here. The country will be ahead of it. And they wonder about the citizens of this country from Macedonia to Crete: What has it caught you to end like - as with such a serious and sensitive issue? Who gave you the right to use it as another tool in your election planning? How will you go through a decision to which one government partner does not agree? And how is it possible for this partner to support a government signatories to an agreement with which he disagrees when, in November 2016, in their 3rd conference, the ANLLs, by a unanimous vote, voted on their second resolution on the name of Skopje? There the ANELs said they did not accept in any form and with no derivative the use of the term "Macedonia". We are trying to cut the road, ladies and gentlemen, of the ANELs towards the Prespes. We're trying to cut this deal off. What, gentlemen, are you going to say in the society that's been outraged with you? And, finally, how much further damage are you going to cause in the country until you leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u724	Thank you, Mr Yoyaka, and respect for the time. You're the only one. Mr. Kouvelli, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u725	Ladies and gentlemen, a question arises: If we take away everything that has been recorded in the recent and most distant history of this particular issue, the so-called 'Macedonian', despite the fact that this convention, this agreement, which I consider to be extremely positive, goes beyond, if you like, successful arrangements of the past and accepts as much as it does, in the context of the national line, arrangements of the past, why mistrust? Why should the submission of a motion of censure, when the Critical Opposition, by utilizing the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, be able to table a motion of censure on a number of other issues which are extremely weak as well as cowardly in the first part of the motion of censure? I am of the opinion that you have chosen the motion of censure precisely to exacerbate confrontation on an issue which is undeniable to the national affair. National affairs, such as the one we are talking about, are not acceptable, should not be receptive, this acute controversy, which does not aim to find a solution - useful and beneficial to the Greek state and our national issues - but seeks to show a opposition to the opposition. I'm sorry. I'll tell you with complete honesty of my opinion. You have tabled the motion of censure not only to exacerbate the confrontation with the government but, above all, to take advantage of an issue on which you have actually been invested - sometimes structured, sometimes unstructured - struggling and even emotions of the Greek people, as have been recorded by many speeches here. I do not choose to develop my view - because much has been tabled - on the usefulness of such an agreement, in relation to the geopolitical position of the country, in relation to the wider region of the Balkans, in relation to the leading role that Greece can ensure with such an agreement, which resolves a matter of years, releases political and diplomatic capital and goes ahead. These have been tabled, I think, with excellent abilities. I have just heard the honourable Member refer to the so-called'satisfaction'. He didn't even talk about heresy. He has tabled - let me be well-meaning - the anguish that, if the agreement is not complied with, fait accompli will be created, which, regardless of whether there is a ratification and agreement in the end, the fait accompli will have been created. It is not so, ladies and gentlemen, because the elementary reading of the agreement in your hands shows what will happen if, on the other hand, there is no respect for the terms and conditions set out in this agreement. Neither in the European Union can our neighbours join with their new name, but not in the end in NATO - for those who are interested in joining NATO - because clearly the well-known heresy is recorded, namely the terms and conditions for joining these political militia, particularly in the European Union. As you see, when the logic is subjugated, when the sincere and advantageous reading of the text is subjugated to our country, then the easy one, the clipboard and - I am afraid - is the biscuiting speech, which is formulated on the periphery. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion the agreement is positive. However, from there on, any opposition must not be entangled - particularly from the standpoint of counter-population - in targeting and aiming to obtain electoral benefits, given that - I repeat - the interest and political thrill of a large part of the Greek people, with regard to the fate and development of such a crucial issue. The reason when it becomes excessive when it comes to defending the opposing view of the government is being equivocal, then it breaks down. And, above all, it forms conditions to multiply this division, to support and raise dangerous views, not only of a far right-wing nature, but of a fascist character. Are you not concerned, ladies and gentlemen, when you hear opinions like those expressed at noon by a Golden Dawn MP named Barbarousis? Are you not concerned by those who say that the road to the Prespes should be cut, his word, which was the end of his speech, 'and the heads of the Prespes'? This forms the conditions that the hatched snake becomes great and forms conditions which are extremely dangerous to society and the evolution of things. Ladies and gentlemen, let us do a subtraction and say that nothing had happened in the past, that there was no national line, that what was done was not done, that when the late Mitsotakis said 'Come and get the Peneero package and move on', the majority of the political system kicked this proposal. Let us remove all this and let us accept that this agreement comes without anything from the past. And it comes today, after a long journey of years and only the fact that over 40 countries in the world recognize the neighbouring country as "Macedonia" and when four of the six members of the United Nations Security Council recognize it, they call it "Macedonia". What, then, are the fait accomplis? What will be shaped, as is unfounded by some, and will it not be possible to come back, when there is heresy, when the terms, conditions, which ensure all these things? It is a fact which the impregnable, twisted and dehydrated politically speaking, when he refuses to see reality as it exists. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you are not convinced, not because you do not recognise the substance of this agreement. You are not convinced that, unfortunately, you have subjugated your overall political concept of resolving this issue in the short term expected on your part, but even though - and I do not believe it - they have temporary party benefits, they are ultimately at the expense of the country and of the Greek society in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u726	Thank you to the Minister and to keep time. Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u727	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are some moments in the history of time and history that each of us is asked to make important decisions and stand at the top of the debt and responsibility. In these moments, then, each one of us should come out of his microcosm and see the great picture. 16 February 2018: Meeting of the President of the neighbouring state, Mr Ivanov, with the President of the Republic of Turkey Mr Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara. They give hands and say that together they will go and try to deal with the agreement and the negotiation with the Greek Government to have a common aim. The aim, as Tayyip Erdogan clearly says, is Macedonia, is "Macedonia". In fact, he goes to Mr. Ivanov, saying to him, "I recognized you as "Macedonia" and is the first state to do consulate in our neighbouring country. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] Now that we see the international reaction to the agreement between our country and neighbouring country, we see that the only one who has not been happy and the only one who has not seen this agreement positively from the international community is Tayyip Erdogan. This might be a matter of concern to the Qualified Opposition before submitting a motion of censure on the Greek Government on the basis of this crucial national issue. Why, do you think Erdogan doesn't see the deal well? Does he lose his hegemony role in the Balkans? What do you want? Let Erdogan play a dominant role in the Balkans or try this role to be played by our own country as a force for guaranteeing peace, stability, understanding, cooperation and people's fellowship? Our country is at a critical crossroads. The international crisis and the general inconvenience that exists in the wider region require strong leaderships that will create strong and stable alliances in the area of our immediate interest. This is vitally important. It is essential that there is strong leadership in the country, which, regardless of the temporary political cost, see the future, have a vision and try to face the general geopolitical situation. It is vitally important, since the fate of our country will be judged in many ways by the controversy that exists at this time and in the Eastern Mediterranean. In this critical geopolitical environment, therefore, we must move towards a gradual normalisation of all the Balkan outstanding issues. In this context, it is important to move towards a friendship attack on the neighbour without dismissing any of our rights in order to solve a long-standing problem that has been stirring up the Greek state and diplomacy for many years. Let me make it clear at this point that on our side we are not dismantling our history just as we are not dismantling our historical responsibility. Do you want to let this issue continue to be a diplomatic burden for our country and there is no solution? Since the 1950s, the '60s and the 1970s the propaganda of some abroad, such as in countries like Canada, Australia, the United States and elsewhere, has been waging. Since these decades there have been many writings and memorandums, both by ambassadors and by homosexual organizations, about the problem that existed. Neither in the '50s nor in the '60s nor in the 1970s did the Greek state ever respond to these memos. They did not answer and said: 'There is no problem.' They did not react and said, “Which “Macedonian”? There isn't. Do not concern yourself.’ And after leaving the issue for more than forty years to come to the detriment of Greece and our history, on 16 December 1991, when they could, which was the historic opportunity, did not protect the interests of the country. It is your government, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who signed the founding of the Republic of Macedonia on 16 December 1991 and hostaged the country. And the same man is hosting your resignation today. If there is no solution today, we may have destabilisation in the neighbouring country with consequences for us, for the nationalist forces of the neighbour and for allutism to benefit other countries that can play games at the expense of our country at our northern border. We have nothing to break up with the neighbouring state. With the agreement we decide a complex name for use of erga omnes, constitutional revision. We get back history, symbols, tradition. With the agreement on changing the constitution, it stops the loophole of a so-called minority. And those who deal with the issue, especially in northern Greece, understand. Reports on protection of alleged Macedonian minorities in neighbouring countries are now being removed. There is the assumption that they have nothing to do with Greek history and Alexander the Great. As for the issue of language, which has been heard so much, I submit to the Minutes of today's UN website to see who recognized it in 1977.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u728	You should testify, let's see that it's from the UN website.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u729	Of course, that's why I give it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Olympia Tyigoridou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a hundred and forty-nine countries recognised FYROM as the Republic of Macedonia. When and in which state did you protest? When and from which state did you ask to change its decision? No one. You didn't do anything! And you didn't do anything because you didn't care. You don't even care today. Today, with the motion of censure, you want to throw the government down to stop the scandal investigation, because you cannot stand to see that we are taking the country out of the memorials you have thrown away. That's what you can't stand. But we want to go ahead with the new generations in the future for a Greece with a leading role and a factor of stability in the Balkans, the Mediterranean and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u730	Mr Constantine Bargiotas has the floor from the Democratic Alliance. Then Mrs Anna Karamanlis, Mr Psarianos and Mr Andrianos will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u731	Ladies and gentlemen, these days we have heard a lot about history in this Chamber. We've got what we call "overdose" from history. The problem is that use is a little selective. Others choose Alexander the Great and close the book as soon as his period ends, others choose Paul Mela. Nobody's talking about Cyril and Methodium. Selective memories and selective references, which usually serve the argument. However, history - and especially the history of Macedonia - is not offered for easy simplifications or for ethno-social show with chlamys, headlines and kits. She's pretty complicated, pretty difficult. Ultimately, today we are not talking about history. We're not doing a history seminar. We are talking about a very modern, very real and pressing, if you like, problem that its roots can go very long, but it is about the country's future and not the past. After many years, there has been a window for a solution to a problem that has been arousing us for at least twenty-five years, because the government in Skopje, for the first time, the Zaev government, called for the opening of negotiations on the change of name, recognising as a negotiating framework - for the first time - the framework set by the Greek Government, at least by the interim agreement, and had formalised and finalised with the famous Bucharest Summit. The New Democracy, the PASOK, SYRIZA, Mr Kammenos, as a member of the New Democracy, had practically formed a national line in which the current Macedonian government was forced to resort. Skopje's motive is obvious. It is the wellbeing of the peoples of the Republic of Skopje through entry, membership of the European Union and NATO, which stop precisely because there is no agreement with the country. The Greek Government has come to an agreement. And, although many wonder what motives we have to resolve this issue now and "Why don't we let it, bruise, drag it down", the truth is that peace and prosperity in the Balkans and good cooperation between states and peoples favour the country's national interests, highlights the role of Greece as the strongest, player-key, if you like, in the region and in what has prevailed as "Western Balkans" and cancels Turkey's attempt to isolate us and surround us. With this logic and in this context, Andreas Papandreou has rushed to sign the interim agreement. With this logic from the time of the Simitis governments and from this point of view Greek foreign policy agrees and helps accession and accession negotiations for all the countries of the western Balkans, including FYROM, under the terms of this particular problem and the particular conflict that we are discussing here, which stops the accession of this country. So the change in Skopje, the big government change and the brave, if you like, the Zaev government's steps, gave a window for Skopje, a chance for the Skopje government and the Skopje people. At the same time, they gave Greece and our national interests a chance, because this is an opportunity for Greece as well. The SYRIZA - ANEL government has come to an agreement and has done very well. The problem is, it was the last thing he did very well in this story. Immediately after trouble began. Mr. Kammenos took the neighborhoods and began to undermine the agreement, persuading his opposition to what he had already agreed in 2008, namely erga omnes and in the name of a complex geographical definition, effectively undermining the effort to resolve and threatening to throw the government and do various things, which today prove to be, once again, air talk, which Mr. Kammenos will not vote for the government's support today and the right of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to sign on Sunday morning the concrete agreement that would break down the government, to him. The specific attitude of Mr Kammenos has specific results and has been specified. He sparked a chain reaction throughout his fellow believers, which is the nationalist right, which is located not only on the right of the New Democracy, but extends deep into the right of the wing. The result was the well-known condolences and the well-known excesses that we have heard since then constantly piercing our ears, but at the same time as Mr Kammenos held his overpatriotic front, the other half of the government, the partners, formed the and well-trained front characterized by conceiving all Greeks, who came out to protest with real anguish for the country, homeland and Macedonia, fascists and trying to pull a red line, separating the Greek people into two different and distinct groups, on the one hand the bad ones and on the other hand, the good ones - the dilemmas, the dilemmatic policy - trying to create a discernmental climate. It was very reasonable in this context that diplomacy would be secret, that the government would not try, as it did not try to, to discuss internally or to strengthen the front of national negotiation towards others. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security has never been informed, no political leader has ever been informed, and we suddenly came to the moment that an agreement was announced and a text that has a characteristic, cannot be intervened, changed, is just written by the neighbour's foreign minister and the foreign ministers of the country. It's that, it's not possible to change. In fact, the government exercises a political blackmail, you're with them or you're with the others. We're not talking about the substance. The text, the content doesn't matter because it's a symbol, it's a split tool. You come from here or you're from there. The fact that half the government's Council of Ministers is from there does not play any special role, of course, because in the paranoia with Mr Kammens other times voting and sometimes not voting, it seems very logical that we should vote on the other not to vote, and otherwise to say what goes down to us. The text does not really have any agreement. But we really are neither from here nor from there. We're in the best interest of the country. We are not joining either the ultrapatriots, who - unfortunately - seem to be joining the New Democracy, which seems less and less to remember positions from 1991 onwards, is less and less referring to Bucharest and complex names, nor to the patriotic front, the progressive one which SYRIZA is actually trying to solve the political deadlocks that this government has on its way to the end. From the outset we have said that we will judge the agreement in accordance with national interest. We announced the criteria we will judge and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u732	Mr Barriott, please have it completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u733	In thirty seconds, Mr. President. And then we pointed out the points on which we disagree and which we believe are not of interest to the country and that they do not cover national issues. I will not mention them again because of time, because we have analysed them too many times. We believe that this is a good start in the two countries' approach. We believe that there is reason and time to improve. We believe that there is the possibility of further negotiation and we call on the government not to shut it down in the way it was closed. There is no question for Greece - time parameter. We can continue and we must continue to negotiate for the good of the country. We refuse to accept the dividend climate that is now unfortunately cultivated on either side and we say that we will fight for a solution to the problem, as we consider to be a national interest. Finally, and I conclude, Mr President, we will never accept that there are patriots and traitors in this country. We always believe that there are Greeks who are struggling, from their point of view and in their view, for the sake of their country, and that is why we will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u734	Thank you. Mrs Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy. I would ask you very much to keep up with the times, colleagues are many, so that we can finish today and tomorrow in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u735	Don't do this to me. You gave everyone a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u736	There's a little tolerance for everyone. There is a courtesy, but the Bureau must be strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u737	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy on the basis of the agreement with the neighbours of Skopje enables us to finally discuss the aspects of the negotiation in the Greek Parliament, an opportunity that the Prime Minister has not given in secret for six months, ignoring the political parties, despising institutions and despising the Greek people who have reacted massively to their plans. The opposition even was characterized by governmental circles as marginal, graphic and extreme. So he did not want to discuss the matter at the National Representation. He did not want to create a national stiff front. He wanted and even wants to split today, but also to satisfy outward demands without projecting any resistance. The Prime Minister, with the negotiative sensitivity that distinguishes him, brought an agreement that cannot be accepted by the vastly large part of our society. Neither the Macedonian language, nor the Macedonian ethnicity, which is the core of scepticism, nor the acceptance of the self-determination of neighbours as Macedonians, can be accepted. This government is coming to grant them such a right. If these are "Macedonians" living in "North Macedonia", then exactly how are they separated from the Macedonians who live in Greece? Minister, does this not give rise to the conditions for altruistic claims? Does it not give rise to the urge to join sometime in the future with the supposed remnant Macedonian nation living outside Skopje? Is it accidental that Bulgaria, which, although immediately acknowledging its constitutional name, has never proceeded to the recognition of Macedonian language and identity? Now we go to the famous "erga omnes", on one of the red lines of the Greek position. How do Skopje commit that the name is for all uses and against all? ‘Unbound’ means the answer and the particular part of the agreement is empty. The most important argument is that the agreement does not provide for any visible deadline for its neighbours to fulfil the obligations laid down in the agreement for them. Buy cash and sell credit. Equally outrageous is the fact that the agreement provides for the setting up of a bilateral committee to examine the lifting of corrosion reports in the teaching of the history of the two countries. Is this or not an indirect assumption that there are alperatorial references on the Greek side? Is there anything that children are learning today in our schools for Macedonia and is considered propaganda? Wait for new conspiracy theories in Izmir? Mr. Kouvelis left too, of course. He was concerned about his MP at the time. It was in DMAR, I think. This will be the charismatic shot for a world that feels today that they are stealing from him a piece of his soul and his legacy. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the humiliating agreement you bring you leads to political isolation. We know that the agreeds echo the views of many leading SYRIZA officials, those who have asked in the past to be called the neighbouring Macedonian state. The ministerial and parliamentary chairs, of course, have made them look more modest and are also covered by the name "North Macedonia". But they do not have the consent of the Greek people, which is why you did not dare ask for it. Instead, you tried to involve the Karamanlis government in your propaganda. But what did Costas Karamanlis and Dora Bakoyannis do in Bucharest? They had the courage and stature to do what Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kotzias could not do, to say 'no' to international pressures and to defend the national interests in full, while respecting a attitude that proudly made the Greeks, a attitude of unifying and not of deep division, as is unfortunately the case today. So what did Karamanlis say then? First solution and then join, otherwise veto. You have effectively neutralized our country's main negotiating weapon. You have firmly accepted the start of the accession negotiations of the neighbours to NATO and the European Union, without making them as a prerequisite for them to meet all their obligations under the agreement first. Even from this bad agreement, will the established situations and the feats relating to the integration of neighbours be easily overthrown if they do not appear consistent? Of course not, since you are captive of the country with what you have agreed. Remember what Panos Kammenos, Chief of ANELs, said on January 17, 2015, a few days before the election in Kosani. "In next government with ANEL the name of Skopje will have no composition of the term Macedonia. As we have thrown the Samara - Venizelos government, so we will shoot the next government." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But Annell, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos, also spoke of a grand defeat, adding that we gave them more than they imagined they could win. "Indiscriminate and disgraceful the text of the Agreement, the ANLLs do not authorize Mr Kotzias to go to the Prespes and to sign the Agreement with Skopje." I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Of course other ANEL colleagues who have spoken of a lack of political legitimacy of the government. I am presenting to the Minutes what Mr Katsikis said, who has just become smoked. He spoke of 'national defeat', adding that 'a political and national mistake is taking place, not to say a crime'. I put this in the Minutes too. But does the government really feel that it has the confidence of these Members? How can Mr Tsipras accuse the New Democracy of opportunism of not accepting the agreement, but of not demanding its government partner to support it? That is a opportunist, Mr. Kammenos. How can Mr. Kammenos see Macedonia as vital and ready to make a change, but when an agreement is reached which gives the term "Macedonia", the language and ethnicity to be simply June and continues to be consistent with SYRIZA? Of course I will not talk again about Mr Kouvellis, because his course says everything. He works with SYRIZA by the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos. That's the chair thing. With this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, the irrationality of philosophy and encryption must be brought to an end. The logic of "boatguards and police officers" underestimates citizens' intelligence. Each of us will be faced tomorrow with their conscience and responsibility for the history of our country, but also for the future generations, and each one will raise the burden of his choice. Both MPs will prove to be worthy of the circumstances and will not allow a national humiliation or will prove that the only and most powerful adhesive of the two government partners is power. That is why the sad period of their administration will remain in history as the alliance of the chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u738	Thank you very much, Mrs Karamanlis. You scared us before time. You were a lady. Mr Gregory Psarianos has the floor from the river Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u739	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was very pleased that after a long time I saw my old companion Fotis Kouvelis as an assistant in Kammenos, and I hope he will be chosen to go to the NATO summit, replacing his boss, who refuses. We found out who's going to the NATO summit. I'm going to say a few things about the "Macedonian". We are in favour of the complex name, which has already been a national strategy for decades. The name "Macedonia" is used in the neighbouring state, on our northern border. I don't call it a state, it's stupid, because the state must tell us Chinese, Indians, etc. So in the neighbouring state, that name has been guaranteed and on our own responsibility, tolerance, acceptance for decades. Any new agreement we make at any level on any national issue is worse than the previous agreement we refused. Historically, this always happens. When you refuse a deal, the next thing you do will be worse. This deal we make is the best thing we can do? That is the question I want to ask. And because we are discussing the 'Macedonian', I would like to say to those who are here and to those who are missing and to all the people who see us, who ask us whether we agree or not, whether we vote on it or not? Has a proposal been made to the Greek Parliament for a solution? We must all be in favour of a reasoned solution with mutual retreat. Of course, it is all the historical and what is bothering us and what is not bothering us and what we should have done and did not. That's all right. Who asked us if we voted for this agreement? We are talking about whether we are voting for the agreement and whether we support it. Who asked us? They are two negotiators, representing a large party now - a great fence in the government, not the government - who have been negotiating this agreement for months. Who did they ask from the other parties? When was the meeting of political leaders to define the new national line, having denied all the previous ones, such as Lisbon, Pineiro and all the previous ones that were better? And badly denied them. By addressing all the wings of this House, I would like to say that when a country is negotiating, a country's government, a very serious, top national issue, the Macedonian - can we call it gypsy-piano-Slavocean? Anything you want - the Cyprus, NATO, what does a serious Prime Minister who is interested in solving the problem rather than playing micro-party games for the benefit of his Government or to save it when he has already taken the cliff? So what's he doing? It calls on the President of the Republic to convene a Council of Political Heads, to set up, to agree a national line, in which to negotiate as a government and as a country. We must negotiate as a government and not as a phrase of the government without political legitimacy, by taking a positive vote, such as on various other issues, such as human rights. I don't want to repeat it, a lot of that has happened. You rule with the ravens and ask the pigeons to support you in the tough! Is that a proper governance system for a country? We blamed Samarovenezles, these disgusting centre-left right-wings who worked with Fotis Kouvelis - the assistant Kammenos - that they destroyed the country. And we are now negotiating a top national issue as a minority of the government with the rest of the government arguing vertically, horizontally, diagonally, in all ways. I don't think you might consider your country and government a serious case when you handle top national issues like this. I would like to talk at some point about the 'Macedonian' or what you want to say. We need to work with our northern neighbours. They're our only friends. We have managed with all the policies so far to have enemies in Albania, Bulgaria, Turkey, the 'globalism'. We're surrounded by enemies. We are the only country in the world surrounded by enemies. Aren't we doing something right? Is it not all these enemies who envy us, are they slain at us, who want to drink our blood? And we're closing the border, banning some fuel smugglers and becoming rich people, making political careers, feeding the gang of SYRIZA friends dancing together in the squares, when the government of the "national traitors" was there, the "German gypsies". Why is it better for the American girls now? I want that government to answer. I want the people who are listening to me, my old companions. I don't care about them, they were "pascaria", some old people from Aki's offices, Sakis, Maki's, and they've become coutures. And a gentleman back there salutes! Well, at some point we have to tell things as they are. Why are we talking at this level and we are now accusing some others of the fact that they are sowing the national division? Who's sprinkling him? The traitors, german germans, mercanisers, loan shark licks, interest teas, patriots and stuff like that. Who blames who? Since the division is our national sports since 1830 and we have to finish it. Those who called 'finish' them before they finish us' and 'or we', 'creams', 'broadcasts', 'executions' and'storages' will now think about why the former German germans sow the national division in the young American germs? What's that little system we're doing? And why didn't we talk about the "Macedonian" here? No one has asked us to vote here on the 'Macedonian'. No government has proposed that 'this national issue we propose to resolve it', that it be discussed here and that we vote on it. What are we talking about? Theoretically, a Mr. Tsipras is going with a Mr. Zaev to some Prespes to sign. Their maggots. Let's get them. I don't know if neither gypsies nor gypsies were asked. I don't know if they were asked if they were voted on. Is it an agreement that we are called upon to ratify, or are we talking about, arrows, lymphs, barbugs and other words to be loved, to sell patriotism, maniacs, that we are dealing with national issues, that we are betraying the country? What's that little system?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u740	Mr. Comrade, will we close? We're at nine minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u741	Yeah, we'll get it over with. Wherever we're going, we're done. We'll be done any minute anyway. I want to close by saying that we have a motion of censure. I am in favour of supporting a solution to the Macedonian. Indeed, we had to come up with, in the good sense, a solution and be proposed to the people and voted on by the parties, by the overwhelming majority, with a complex name. But here we see ethnicity, language, various things that were not in previous draft agreements, but this is a fundamental debate. I refuse to run. A lot of things bothering me, someone I agree with. Anybody ask us? Has the government submitted a motion for a resolution and not a phrase by the government to be voted on in the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u742	Mr. Fisherman, you have exceeded the time of all colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u743	And it says now, "Once you would support a solution, if you were asked, why are you voting on a motion of censure?" Because it's the worst government that's been through the country far away. He's ruined education, justice, the public. It's the worst case, which signes with the xenophobic loan sharks the worst, to hire and feed customers, which can break in the evenings and in the Exarches no stores. It's the worst government the country has ever met. That is why we are voting for the motion of censure, comrades, rivals, patriots, democrats and national-democratic citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u744	Thank you. A little respect for the next speakers, there are many. Mr Ioannis Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u745	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy against the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is a self-evident act of national responsibility. It is a self-evident act that enables Members of all the political forces to take a conscious view, in the most clearest way, of a national issue. We have seen the whole of the negotiations happening unprecedentedly. We have seen the Foreign Minister retreat from the fixed national positions. We saw the Prime Minister bring a bad heterogeneous agreement, for which, not only did it not seek, as it should, the agreement of the political forces, not only did it not inform in due time, as it was due, of the unacceptable retreats from the national line that it made but also did not have to deal with and the fact that it does not even have the support of the government majority. We have seen the Prime Minister relinquish the opposition, which disagrees with the bad heterogeneous agreement he has put forward, and at the same time has no problem with the ANELs, who say at every opportunity that they will not support this agreement, because it is really very bad and disastrous. So we see the minor government partner saying that it will not support the agreement, but will remain in the government. Many of SYRIZA Members had expressed their position on Skopje to be called "Macedonia". It is respected, but the Greek people did not give them self-reliance, so that they could implement this policy. And now they come to implement this political position through ANELs, who say that they do not agree and proclaim in every direction that they are against the concession of the name "Macedonia". In fact, this also appears in their statutes. Now, therefore, the government, supported by the ANELs and to which you share, ladies and gentlemen, is doing exactly what you have said. Now that the government is going to produce negative results, unfavourable, it creates legal negative effects, because the signing of the agreement by the Foreign Ministers on Sunday and with the presence of the Prime Ministers actually creates erroneous negative data on this national issue, you will give it the green light again. So, in the face of this negative agreement on our national laws and interests, no one can hide behind perforated excuses or pretexts anyway. The responsibility for what is to happen, that is to say, to be signed on Sunday at the Prespes, is personal and will be recorded indelibly, not only in the minutes of the Parliament, but also in the consciousness of the Greeks. Of course, the impression is that the Prime Minister has not taken advantage of this opportunity to turn the motion of censure into a vote of confidence in the government. It is, if anything, a revelation of the deadlock in which the government's majority finds itself. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is a clear step back from the national line drawn up by Costas Karamanlis in Bucharest. It recommends a regression, for which, I repeat, the government does not have the power, the national consensus, or even the elementary internal cohesion. It is an agreement that is in clear dissatisfaction with the will of the vast majority of the Greeks, an agreement which insults the Greeks' history and sensitivities both in Macedonia and in every corner of the country. The Prime Minister goes to Prespes to recognise Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian language, which are key elements of altruism, which are the basic core of alutism. So he goes to Prespes to subside from the national red lines. And the question on the lips of all the Greeks is clear: why suddenly have we accelerating? Why does the government suddenly rush not only to satisfy the claims of our neighbours, which we have never discussed before but also actually tells us that we should be happy and proud that it does not give more? We must also highlight this point emphatically. Bucharest gave Greece an overpriced negotiating weapon. Kostas Karamanlis at the summit, within a very difficult climate, which I had the opportunity and honour to live personally as a member of the Greek delegation, with national responsibility, with patriotism, with appropriate alliances, managed to find the 'no solution, not an invitation', that is to say first resolve the disputes with Greece and then the process of joining NATO and the European Union, to be accepted by both NATO and the European Union. So why is the current government dismantling this for granted? Why'd you even stand up for a name with the clearly analytic Ilinden? Why are you now giving land and water to the idea of 'Macedonism'? What are the pressures you have received? What are the ideas you serve? Because the third option doesn't exist. Either one happens or the other. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, with this parliamentary procedure followed by the New Democracy, by the roll-call vote tomorrow, we put you before your responsibilities towards history, against the nation, against the Macedonians of today and tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u746	Thank you to Mr Andriano and to keep time. My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Vagonakis. Mr Davakis will be followed by the New Democracy, then the Minister for Health and then Mrs Dritselli. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u747	Thank you, Mr President. Although a number of colleagues have been mentioned this morning, I would like to say that Golden Barbarousis from the Step of the House today called the Greek Army into coup. This is the first time since the rehabilitation of the Republic in '74 that such things are heard in the Greek Parliament. The fact is absolutely doomed. Similar fascist behaviours must find a global response from all democratic forces. Such extremities, however, are assisted by the extreme nationalist misanthropic sermons that are heard from the New Democracy side, which unfortunately has become more and more hostage to the extreme right of the component and of Mr Samaras, further rearing the monster. Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the great problems our government had to face in previous years, the attempt to get out of the crisis and the memorials, the refugee flows, the permanent challenges from our eastern neighbours, tried to create cooperation agreements and build bridges with the peoples of the Balkans, the countries of the Middle East and North Africa, so that Greece could be a pole of peace and stability in the region. On the basis of this strategy and as soon as the political conditions have been created in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, there has been a hard attempt on the part of the Foreign Minister to reach agreement on the national line, that is, the one followed by all Governments since 2008 and from then on, that is, a complex name for all uses. In addition, great emphasis has been placed on the issues of aluterism. I remember Mr Kotzia in an interview to point out that these are, in his opinion, the most important and difficult. That is why the objective has been set at the outset to require changes in the neighbour's constitution. And if, ladies and gentlemen, you are honest, you would admit that this was not the case at the negotiating table from the previous governments up to now. I sincerely believe that an agreement with the neighbour should be signed now, since the main issues that foreign policy posed over time are resolved by this agreement, and in the best way, since the opposite, namely the lack of agreement, would lead to further destabilisation of the neighbour with an impact on the security of our country. Let us think, the neighbouring state remains unstable and weak. If he fails to join protective supranational organisations, he will likely collapse in the midst of civil divisions. Does it contribute to such a development in our country? On the contrary, I believe that our country has every interest in the stability of this state. Secondly, the non-signing of an agreement would strengthen the role of third countries. I would like to remind you here that Turkey has tried to trip the attempt to reach agreement. Ms. Tyloridou said earlier what happened February 12, 2018. Thirdly, it would weaken the neighbour's progressive forces that want a solution, reopening the way to nationalist forces that are struggling our history. So all of us, and I stress all of us - because I believe that we have patriotism - that we seek peace and security in our region, which we do not want revisions and which we regard as unnecessarily having our borders, have an interest in a sustainable agreement. This agreement has these characteristics, since it has complex geographical identification, accepting erga omnes, as provided for in Article 1, it refers to the need to change the constitution not only in name, but also in articles that can create stratifications. And since these are resolved by the agreement, the debate is now revolved only on language and citizenship issues. I believe that the agreement is clear on these issues. It may not, of course, satisfy us 100%, but it is clear, since Article 7(4) specifically states that the second part, namely FYROM, states that its official language, the Macedonian language, belongs to the group of southern Slavic languages. The Parties also note that the official language and other characteristics of Part Two, namely FYROM, are not relevant to ancient Greek culture, history, culture and heritage of the northern region of the first part, namely Greece. As regards citizenship, it is clarified that the citizens of FYROM are citizens of Northern Macedonia. I note, however, that the right to hetero-determination is a right which each people have. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot honestly explain the behaviour of many of us and the attitude towards the agreement when others have said in the past and others say today, unless your attitude starts from your insistence to throw the government down. You didn't get the left parentheses, you won't get out of it now. Of course, many of you invoke the demonstrations and opposition of some of the Greek citizens to the "concession" of the word "Macedonia". After reminding you that this word also exists within the 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia' and 'former' refers to the Yugoslav Republic, I would say that the role of politicians and, above all, of leaders is not to shape their position on the basis of what is said by the citizens only, but on the basis of what they consider to be in the country's interests and that the politician also has responsibility for the formation of public opinion. Sometimes it is politically right to go against the current. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our country has experienced a major crisis, the consequences of which we are living today. But the hard stuff has passed, we've read it. The last prerequisites were voted yesterday and the debt regulation is before us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The exit from the Memorandums in August is memorable, I would say more outside than internally. The economy is recovering. We have a programme, we have a plan that also concerns the economy, but above all, the people and the coverage of the wounds that the crisis has opened. But we need a stable environment and we want to contribute to it. This deal does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u748	Thank you very much, Mrs Vayonakis, for keeping time. Please very much from the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Davakis, take the floor for seven minutes. The Minister will be followed by Mr Pavlos Paulakis and Mrs Panagiota Dricelli.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u749	Ladies and gentlemen, at noon today, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Tsia Christodoulopoulos, mentioned an extremely interesting theory. In particular, he said that SYRIZA took advantage of a political opportunity window to resolve the time-consuming issue of the scout. Mrs. Christodoulou is right. Indeed, we have led to this agreement because it has opened up a window of opportunity, which Skopje has made sure that they are fully exploited. This window is the rise of the radical Left and its willing assistants and its negotiating team in power. If something has become certain over the years, it is clear that SYRIZA has a zero understanding of the principles and techniques of negotiation. That is the problem we are facing today. And I explain, asking five simple questions to the government. First question: is this agreement definitively resolved and, in the biennial sense, is the question of aluterism? No, because, in accordance with Article 1(3), with the ratification of the agreement, Greece will officially recognise the existence of Macedonian identity and language, which will be a strong legal basis for the abrasive account of our neighbouring country. Second question: Does the agreement clearly and clearly protect our historical and cultural heritage? Again, no, because Article 7 is the epitome, ladies and gentlemen, of ambiguity about the interpretation of the terms "Macedonian" and "Macedonian", as this reference is missing in Ancient Macedonia. In other words, none of the things referred to in Article 7 will prevent Skopje from continuing to falsify the historical truth about Macedonia's Greekity. Third: Does the agreement clearly and clearly protect Greek trademarks and designations of origin? Again no, because Article 1(3) states that this matter is for the good faith of a personaly business community in the neighbouring country, as well as for the setting up of a committee of special committees, representatives of the two states, which will negotiate without a timetable and essentially structured procedures for all the relevant issues. Fourth question: Are the profits that each side obtains from it symmetrical or proportional to the international position of each side? Unfortunately, no. Greece, as we all know, has to cover a clearer distance from Skopje. In 2008, it was our country that took several steps forward, and today it is again called upon to take many steps forward, accepting the existence of mainly Macedonian identity and language. Also, the profits that the Skopje side expects to obtain from its entry into NATO and the European Union have no comparison with what we get. As you can see with the entry of this country into NATO and the European Union - but NATO is currently saying - it is completely changing its status as regards its participation in the world's largest defence alliance. The agreement is very clear about what is going to happen if Skopje fails to complete their constitutional review. It is quite clear, too, what will happen if the agreement is fully implemented. Unfortunately, however, it is not clear, ladies and gentlemen, what can be done if they complete the constitutional review, but otherwise violate the predictions of the agreement or the good neighbourliness. Tell us what instrument Greece will have at its disposal, which in Article 2 commits not to block the entry of the neighbouring country into NATO and the European Union to ensure that Skopje continues to apply the provisions of the agreement? So because the profits for Greece from the agreement are a little unclear and, lastly, because it is high risk of our country being lost, if the process goes on and Skopje fails to keep part of what they have promised to stick to, so the New Democracy has this opposition to this agreement. In conclusion, I would like to say that paragraph 5 of Article 8 states that a joint multidisciplinary committee of experts will be set up to take action and actions on cultural issues, books, school books, etc. I want to put forward an emotional link at the moment, which concerns what we - and as you know for so many years, I have not been subject to divisional tendencies or a divisional speech -, from what is proven in this Chamber, we are very moved, particularly - if you want - by reminiscent of historical memories. The story, ladies and gentlemen, has been written. It has been written a hundred and ten years ago by the Laconians, if you like, my fellow Macedonians, who fought and gave their blood and their struggles for our Macedonia. History has been written by Antonis Vlahakis, Captain Litsa, young children who left Mani, from Laconia, from southern Greece, to free and give their struggles for Macedonia, young children such as those who will flood the squares tomorrow. So Antonis, Vlahaki, Captain Litsa, Leonidas Petroulakis, who were killed by the Bulgarians on May 7, 1906, in Castanofyto, Kastoria. The hero of the lake of Giannitson Ioannis Demetrius or Captain Nikiforos, Gregory Falireas or Captain Zakas, George Frankakos or Captain Malea, Friday of Zerveas, Captain Taygetos, Theodore Mantuvalo from Mesa Mani, Captain Germa Nikolaos Chotakos from Germa of the Gythonion, who, as the legend of Mani's popular poetry, said, "we are left forts of eternal and silent in the fortresses of freedom, in the Macedonian villages". We don't forget them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u750	All old Greece applauds!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u751	We thank Mr Davaki very much and thank him for keeping time. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor. Mr. Paulakis will tell us about the Cretans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u752	From there I shall begin, Mr President, because I, too, come from a place that gave many Macedonians and a lot of blood for freedom and for the liberation of Macedonia and for the continent in general and even before Crete joined the national body. Right now, we don't have a mob contest. In 1913, with the end of the Balkan wars, the winners shared the territories of the Ottoman Empire and our country took 51% of the geographical space called Macedonia. That's who those Macedonians liberated. I respond with a word about what you said, Mr Davakis, why you tried to put a ton of heroism you have from the past at a time when the national formation of a country that came out of four hundred years of slavery, with lasting revolutions, Cretan revolutions and the rest of Greece, was completed in order to complete the way it was completed and, of course, at the final defeat of 1922, with the Asia Minor disaster, which also reconstructed things differently. It's not the same time, Mr. Davaki. You take a time leap, and this was in 1992 by Mr Samaras. In 1913 there was the Treaty of Bucharest which described the borders and where Macedonia's geographical area shared, in which countries, in Greece, in Serbia, in Bulgaria and in Bulgaria, and a very small percentage in Albania. At the end of the second world war, when one third of the land's countries entered the camp proclaiming communist liberation, this country and this region was called the Republic of Macedonia. Was there any objection from any of you? Was there? For so many years in school books, up to 1977, 1978, 1979, 1980, 1981, the maps in the school halls of the fifth and sixth grades called the Republic of Macedonia this region of Serbia, the single Yugoslavia. Yes or no? In 1977 we accepted to the UN the existence of the Macedonian language that was included in this list that Mr Kumucasos did not remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u753	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u754	Well, that's not true, all right. You did that shit the other day, and you didn't know what happened to you, and now it's a lie. In 1959 we accepted and signed trade agreements with the Länder. Until 1991 why has there been no reaction from all of this insanity of nationalism here in our country? Because the world had shared, because there was the agreement between Tehran, Yalta and Potsdam, where this division existed. In 1991-1992, with the fall of the existing socialist countries, Mr Samaras was the first to sign a dismantling agreement on Yugoslavia, despite the then instructions of the father of the current Head of State of New Democracy, called the "Democracy of Macedonia" in. After a while he preached an adventurous, he made a career on this thing, with the rallys, one, the other, etc. Where did we drive twenty-five years with them? Where did we drive? We have led to a situation in which hundreds of forty countries have recognized it by that name, based on the provision of old Mitsotakis that if we don't find a solution, they will recognize it as "Macedonia". Does this erase from your memory? Because that's what they said. With a corresponding nationalism gigantic from there with the VMRO of Gruevski, etc. They also built careers, parallel marches of nationalists, with incorporative articles in the Constitution, setting up statues of Alexander the Great, with the star of Berna. Didn't that happen then? Which country did you protest then, as Olympia Tylorid said earlier? What else did you do? There was an attempt in 2008. There's a line going down. What we have achieved today is much better than that. Much better! It has things that at the time did not go in either as a basis for discussion, as Mrs Bakoyannis acknowledges, despite the pirates she has done here today to support her brother and Mr Samaras, etc. On the one hand, she didn't come out, on the other, she came in or... I wanted to know: Have you read the articles of the agreement? Why do you repeat some things? I'm gonna have to read some articles of the deal. It says here in Article 7 about identity, language, etc.The following shall be added to the list: "With respect to the first part, these terms mean - Macedonia, namely - not only the region and the population of the northern region before Greece, but also their characteristics, as well as the Greek culture, history, culture, heritage of the region from ancient times to present. 'With regard to the second part - namely Macedonia - means the territory, language, population and their characteristics, with their own history, culture and heritage, distinctly different from those referred to in the previous paragraph'. The second part notes that: "The official language because it is the Macedonian language belonging to the South Slavic language group. Also, the two parties note that the official language and other characteristics of Macedonia - namely Macedonia - do not relate to ancient Greek culture, history, culture and heritage of the northern region of the first part." Did you read these? Did you see them? How much more crystal would I say? In Article 3, in relation to alpha-corrosions, it states: "The parties, through this event, confirm their existing common borders as a strong and inviolable international border. None of the Parties shall express or support any support for any part of the territory of the other Party. We will not support any similar claims that can be raised by a third party, as others do and cut them. He also says: “Each Party undertakes to respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence of the other Party. They undertake not to instigate or support non-friendly activities and operations even by private organisations.’ They're changing the Constitution and they're removing it. Symbols are deleted. They are leaving all that has been set up for decades of your governments and then you have done nothing and today you have lifted the banner. So, to finish, it is not the reason you tabled the motion of censure. I will now say it in the remaining time. We're winning a complex name with a geographical designation against everyone. We are ending the issue of aluterism. We are finishing with the issue of the problem of the different cultures that have dwelt in these territories and opens up a great way of cooperation, which can only be well brought to our own country. I heard Mr. Maniot's speech yesterday. I saw it was reproduced by too many sites. Article 13 presented it as a demonic synergy of an article that will undermine the EOZ and does not accumulate. Courgettes with the oregano. International Maritime Law in the enclosed countries provides for agreement to allow them to move forward to maritime transport. But it must be provided for in the agreement. And that's why he's getting in. It won't undermine our EOZ or natural gas this deal. Don't listen to stories and science fiction scenarios that you're trying to make to justify a negative attitude. Now, listen to us get this over with. The deal is much better. This is also apparent from the positions of VMRO nationalists who say they rejected a better deal for them in 2009. Today we live the deadly spree after the morning. The policy you followed liberated that. The snakes came out of the hole because you kept this line. The dead end line on every exit. The petting of the extreme right, nationalism and that logic. You saw her this morning. Since 1974, there has been talk in here to the army to arrest the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the Minister of National Defence. This has also been released because of your attitude, ladies and gentlemen. And put this in your mind and reconstruct your political line. Extreme right, fascism, racism, nazis are reared by poverty and watered by nationalism and patriotism. And these are more genuine representatives than you. And today they bit. But there was that reaction and they left like chickens. With a hundred and eighty kilometers to run Barbarus was hiding and sent the statement that he wrote "wrongly understood, I said so, I didn't say otherwise." I'll say again what I said this morning to prove once again that the donors' offspring are just cowards. So today, we are living the deadly streak of an effort you have started since January 2015, colleagues. A system of power, which has been shaking economic and political power in that country for over forty years, not to say seventy, eighty. He was never able to accept that he lost the part called government authority. Since the first day of January 2015, after the Greek people touched their hopes on this government and renewed it for September, you are constantly formulating left parentheses and falling scenarios. None of you came out. None. You left empty funds. Samaras didn't deliver to the Prime Minister. That's a big institutional offense. It's never happened before after the Transmigration. You said that the first evaluation would fail, the second evaluation will fail, cutters will go in, knives will go down, the economy breaks down, it gets in, it shows, unemployment, evil. You've exploited everything you've had in the hard core of the state, in pieces of judiciary, in the media area. You tried to cancel us laws. You took the law on the channels to keep you under control of the public sphere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u755	Did we do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u756	You did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u757	Are we the Council of State?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u758	Answer me later, colleague Voridis. Don't make the stranger now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u759	No, no, dialogue. Mr. Minister, close. You speak 12 and a half minutes. A little quiet to earn the time. Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u760	You said the third evaluation would not end. You predicted disasters, you organized scenarios. You called the IMF Pavilion. And you and your beggars. You have come out kings of the king. And she didn't sit on you. It's over. The first program comes out for two reasons. The first is because the Greek people put their backs on because they don't want to see you in their eyes, and the second is because they understand that we don't steal. That is why it gives us this margin.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u761	Minister, please. Let's go. We're at thirteen and a half minutes. We have another hundred speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u762	I'll go. So it does not come out, and you played a change in the face of this agreement, which solves a problem of twenty-five years, you cultivated nationalism - Kyranakis came out yesterday and changed the time of the gathering, to see how many you will gather and tomorrow after what has been distributed today and what has happened - in an effort to get the government down from the 'Move Europe' up to now. You didn't make it and you won't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u763	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u764	And the deal will be signed in August and we have another year until the next elections to show how we will rule without the suffocating embrace of lenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u765	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Dritsel from SYRIZA to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u766	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u767	Mr. Hatzidakis, what's the point? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u768	I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u769	I would also like to speak, Mr President, for five seconds on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u770	Mr. Davakis, please. Mr. Hatzidakis, for a minute, I don't give time. Be quiet, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u771	I have only two comments, Mr President. I could say a lot. All the spokesmen of SYRIZA are returning to the argument of the Golden Dawn, that the New Democracy cares for the Golden Dawn. I think my morning position was absolutely condemnative and characteristic of the New Democracy line. From there on, I could say, if I followed the same line, that I remember what is said very often in the Chamber, the upper and lower square, the SYRIZA and the Golden Dawn, the fact that both parties took the vote for the Samara government to fall through the election of the President of the Republic. I am not saying this because I believe what I have noted in the morning, that because we have two - three days of difficult parliamentary debate, we must all keep our cool. In any case, if SYRIZA's colleagues want to continue these political jokes on New Democracy's relations with the Golden Dawn, let them continue. It's their right and their problem. They're exposing themselves. The second point, Mr President, is what Mr Paulakis said about the death line. Look, I don't want to talk about the death spear of any party, and SYRIZA and any other faction. The parties are institutions of democracy and democracy needs all parties. So I do not wish SYRIZA to pass any death sponge, but I can predict, almost with certainty, what will be the result of the poll. The result of the poll will be a heavy defeat of SYRIZA and the handling of Skopje will further increase the extent of defeat. That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u772	Thank you. Mrs. Drittelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u773	Mr President, I would like the floor to clarify the concept...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u774	No, Minister, because colleagues are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u775	How not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u776	It's okay. I think it's clear. Let's respect Mrs. Drittelli.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u777	Please. Let us not open a dialogue with the parliamentary representative. We are obliged by the Rules of Procedure to give him the floor. Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor and speak out loud enough to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u778	Mr. Javarra, if I have the floor, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset we said that this motion of censure was welcome. And it was welcome, obviously and why we are not afraid that this government could fall - I think that neither of you - but we knew that we would also be confirmed in this debate in our strong argument that the New Democracy, at this moment, is in an incredible strategic deadlock. It has an incredible misfortune of arguments to respond to the very critical issues that afflict the country, both national and economic and social. And we knew that this problem from the outset, as we have said, would not stand up to the circumstances and we were confirmed that this major national issue, which you have a very heavy responsibility over time, would not be approached with a serious attitude, with a responsible attitude, in a field of discussion for a useful solution for the country, but would only approach it to the point of view. Has society, as yet, been wiser than this debate? I think it didn't come out. Has society learned what the parties view this crucial issue? Obviously not. Did we hear what would or would the New Democracy bring with its negotiating team about this agreement, on this major national issue? Obviously not. Even the people with whom you will protest, not all of you, some of you, have not understood exactly what you want to do with the "Macedonian". As long as the debate goes through, I am even more sure of myself, and it is my personal view that this motion of censure has resulted in a self-confidence tool. It is an autogol because its internal problem, which is obviously strategic and ideological, is trying to move it to Greek society and that is dangerous. In a parallel universe, at another time maybe that would be laughing. But right now, it's dangerous. And it is extremely dangerous because, ladies and gentlemen, the identity of every nation - and you are not saying that to understand - is obviously based on historical continuity. But it is forged daily in both struggles and work and perceptions and by stereotypes and by culture and conditions, it is constantly formed. Consider, then, which side and where your hammers are hitting these two days we're talking about. I hope these are the last speeches we have heard, because it was not only strategically the deadlock. I believe that some of the Members of the Officerial Representation really believe what was, yesterday, defended by the Step of the House and who obviously brought to the point of demolishing the far right-wing part represented in this House. So what remains of this debate? I, in accelerating these talks, noted three things. Firstly, political micropsy, secondly, strategic deadlock, thirdly, opportunistic vote. For this reason alone, the New Democracy has come to present a motion of censure, while this tool, a very important institutional parliamentary tool, could at any time use it in other more serious issues. It's revealing, of course, this conversation about two things. Firstly, the New Democracy seems to me that, with this debate, it has chosen an ideological camp and has chosen a leader, regardless of whether they can't admit it. Nationalist outrages and voices, the crowns in the talks, especially the rapporteurs of the Officerial Opposition, sealed the identity of the New Democracy. And since the writings remain, these speeches will follow you, and from now on they will characterize you. The motion of censure obviously did not come because the New Democracy is being cut off on what Greece will do with this major issue. If he was gonna solve it, he would have solved it maybe in the past few years. He didn't. He didn't want to do it, and these days we figured out why. This motion of censure has come, because every day a record of it is evaporated, which we are hearing cowardly from 2012 on incapacity, uselessness and so on. This government is not incompetent and it proves it. It proves it every day, and the reality itself confirms it. And the worst you know what it is? That they can't digest that. And it is outrageous to come here some patriotism and a thousand cardinals' style to make the experts on diplomatic and historical issues, trying to focus on society that this negotiation was conducted in vacant, tabula rasa, the government's negotiating line. There was no national line, no feminine ones you created! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u779	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, please, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u780	These powers, which unfortunately are not just the New Democracy, are also the Democratic Incorporation - and I say 'unfortunately' because the Democratic Incorporation had a historic opportunity to identify itself with the views of social democracy in Europe - and they are trying to do the same thing as the nationalist right in the neighbouring country. And these are the forces that do not want the two countries to come together and do not want us all to walk together in the Balkans. The agreement, ladies and gentlemen, does not aim - and it has never been presented as such - to impose a strong one against a weak one, as some dream in their nationalist dreams. This agreement aims to reach a compromise which will not dismantle anyone's national pride and, of course, will not allow history to be usurped by anyone. These incomprehensible dangers and the misguided excuses which have been heard, obviously and are the sex of figs in order to cover the horrific political attitude of the parties, otherwise described as progressive. And because I don't want to take a lot of time - I've already exceeded my due time - I'm ending up with this. This government has made many efforts, has made many retreats. On this issue, he did not retreat. And I'm saying it with full knowledge. Greece is re-entering into a development orbit. It leaves behind the deadlocks and moves with steady steps to a new reconstruction phase. On this basis, the motion of censure you have tabled is still a panic move, which not only can affect government stability, but will further strengthen our efforts to get out of the crisis, to overthrow austerity, to combat corruption, but also to strengthen the country at all international levels.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u781	Thank you very much, Mrs Dricksel. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance. Mr. Dimitriadis, Mrs. Vultesis, the former Minister, Dritsas, and Mr. Javaras will follow. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u782	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Government has been in front of two options in this negotiation: either forming a national line on the principle of the consensus of the political forces and the continuity of the diplomatic gains of 1995 and 2008, or going ahead with a negotiation on its own responsibility, working on the goal of finding a solution to gain political benefits. The first was that of the national understanding and formulation of the greatest possible social and political consensus, while the second was the path of division, national division, polarization and the new outbreak of nationalism and patriococism in the extreme political circles. Somewhere there the government has lost Mr. Kammenos, the honest ally - as the Prime Minister says - who saw the opportunity of electoral resurrecting him through the nationalist bid and supposedly resistance to the assignment of the name "Macedonia". We have been in favour from the outset, ladies and gentlemen, of a solution with a complex name for all uses and against all, erga omnes, by removing Skopje's Albanian constitutional dispositions. We believe that there must be a solution to guarantee national interests, to be comprehensive, to be permanent, to be sustainable, without room for manoeuvre and double interpretations in the future. If we take the deadlocks and myopic splitting crowns, which are covering with irresponsible nationalist negativeism the prospect of finding a solution and focusing on the national interest within the European and international organisations, we see that this agreement, despite whatever positive, has serious problems, which we will find in the future. It creates a fait accompli, which is unacceptable for the Greek side. Let us talk a little bit about the agreement, because we have not spoken too much since yesterday about what the agreement provides for. In Article 1, ladies and gentlemen, 'erga omnes' is defined and limited to the articles provided for in the Agreement, so that, as I will prove to you, its general strength is bent, in particular with regard to the performance of the terms 'Macedonia' and 'Macedonia'. With regard to these conditions, Article 7 of the Agreement provides that the parties maintain their own free view, hence an interpretation of each other, of their historical context and historical heritage. This wording creates a major problem when, at the same time, Article 1(3) recognises Macedonian nationality - citizenship to the citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Macedonian nationality and citizenship! At the same time, the abrasion element is consolidated through the agreement when the international recognition of Macedonian nationality - citizenship, Macedonian language, special understanding of Macedonian history and culture to the citizens of the state called "North Macedonia", form the conditions for the creation of Macedonian ethnicity. This is where the fall is, the retreat of the erga omnes. Inadmissible, unequivocal, nationally harmful because there is simply no Macedonian nation or, in any case, Greece over the period of this Macedonian nation did not recognize it and does not recognize it. This has not been systematically denied by all previous governments as part of the aluterism? What legalization does the current government accept? By what legalization does it enter into, so that there can be the components of the Macedonian nation? Secondly, it is maintained in Article 7 that each party's particular perception of the terms 'Macedonia' and 'Macedonia' - these, ladies and gentlemen, have legal imprints with international force when it comes to an agreement between later taking an international dimension - concerns, inter alia, the interpretation of the territory of Northern Macedonia, that is, the geographical area in which the State exercises its sovereignty. So that is where the term 'Macedonian territory' is now fully and fully recognised. It is simply a huge mistake to grant this ransom claim that goes back to the theory of Iliden's ethnicity, that is, that we refused and blamed the Prime Minister for not having to accept it. What is the reason why Greece is committed to dismantling the basic negotiating instrument, NATO and the European Union, allowing FYROM, from signing the agreement, access to these international organisations before Skopje completes the constitutional review and comply with the terms of the agreement? In fact, an agreement is made with a country with strong political instability. Why is the government now rushing to commit Greece to the legal effects directly generated by the signing of the agreement, thus effectively releasing FYROM's international prospects for NATO, to the European Union, without any consideration and without any legal certainty? Why isn't he waiting? Is the government's mistake to adopt the heresy, which is not the case - and they know it very well in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - for the procedures in NATO, when, under International Law, the annulment of an agreement does not substantially affect the retroactive cancellation of the legal effects it has produced? On the contrary, any subsequent withdrawal of Greece will expose the country and weaken its international strength. I would remind the House that the late Andreas Papandreou said here in Parliament that a solution is to be given first and foremost from the Skopje side, in practice and reliable samples for her own desire to stop uncertainty in relation to their recognition. Today Greece appears to be an expeditious one. Why? This agreement is not an acceptable solution and there is still time and opportunity to change. I do not know whether there is a political will by the government or if there are other political commitments. Harmful cases, felicitous and unscrupulous retreats on national issues are unacceptable and the Greek people are not going to accept them, but they can cause great damage to the future. The Change Movement, the Democratic Reconciliation, is voting against the agreement in its present form. More than the micro-participatory calculations, the unreasonable and reckless intimacy that demonstrate certain provisions and the government's occult experimentation, are of national interest and patriotic responsibility. For these reasons alone, there is reason to vote in favour of the motion of censure and that is what we will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u783	Thank you very much, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr. Dimitriadis from SYRIZA will now take the floor and then Mrs. Vultesis, Mr. Dritsas, Mr. Javaras has asked for the floor, and the Minister, Mr. Tsimonis, has asked for the floor. Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u784	The motion of censure which we are discussing today, tabled by the Civic Opposition, was tabled as soon as the last polygraph was passed, a piece of legislation that completed a period of closed transit. It marks the end of the route that began in the summer of 2015 and is the one that validates the end of the memorandum. It closes a difficult but different period from the old, failed and doomed. It is a period of time, that is, this three-year period, which supported the country's survival, saved its wealth and social rights, established development policies, stopped in many cases the downhill spiral. In these three years we have put a stop to the country's destruction, we have put a stop to the fall of GDP, the loss of 65% of the volume of investment, the average annual decline in domestic demand by 6%, the decrease in household gross nominal income by 7.5%, the unemployment that had reached the wilderness of 27%. Events that were the result of a strategic perception over the past five years of how they had to deal with the debt issue. In other words, large surpluses of some 15 billion a year, plus 50 billion direct divestments of public property via the TIAD, equal to repayment of the debt in about twenty years, which we are in fact insisting on. We, on the contrary, have achieved surpluses that no one could ever imagine in the range of 5% for 2016 and 2017 and that, apparently, we will succeed in 2018, which, on the basis of a programme already running, are reinvesting in the country's GDP and not going to creditors. We have the certainty, therefore, that we are stepping on a stable ground for what we have agreed on in the medium term 2019-2022. It is something that all the official institutions involved accept in this process, but opposition does not accept in our country. All this political result is accepted - you know - institutions and bodies which are not in our own political plan and are rather political toward us. So there is a new era that has to resolve the already established case. Debt regulation and sustainable development, surpluses and necessary reforms, protection of public wealth and public space, social and labour rights. Growth has created a satisfactory level of positive reporting, such as surpluses, investments, reduction of unemployment, exports, and especially the reserve for the first time of the extraordinary amount of around EUR 30 billion. Public health has also been rescued and redesigned with considerable importance for the fact of joining it - that is to say, the care of thousands of uninsured people. In energy, the three main pillars of our energy production - PPC, IPTO and DESFA - we restored them to the public and increased them financially. So in the new era, we are alone in this dialogue. We are, however, looking forward to debt regulation, because it is a fact that in the next few years - and in 2019 and 2020 and in 2021 and 2022 - we have to pay at least EUR 19 billion a year from the previous policies. This was claimed to be their programme before 2015. This, finally, also claims for 2019 and then in the medium term. The second thing we have to manage and negotiate is to improve the growth in the budget area that will enable us to speed up our development policies, change the development mix, reducing taxes, unemployment and consolidating the social state. We also want to restore the rights of the world of work, collective agreements and the increase in minimum wages. At the same time, we are seeking to change the working model by coming to the best European practices. In short, we have a challenge ahead of us at a new time when we can and want to shape it. We are calling for a specific political reconstruction plan and for the economy and the state. We are putting forward concrete proposals and giving concrete thought to how to achieve this. We therefore expect - perhaps unfairly - proposals or even thoughts from other political forces at these important levels. And so far, I have to observe, we have heard almost nothing. So in the perspective of the country's and economy's strategic development at the very time when all this is happening, it has been unfolded and the challenge of the possibility of solving the problem with neighbour FYROM and we, of course, have responded. We believe that it is deeply patriotic to serve a national line and historically safeguard the country's positions, always keeping the national line stable. Complex name with geographical identification, erga omnes and constitutional review for the removal of alutritis. All three were reached in absolute. And that's not all. It is clear that the historical and cultural Greek Macedonian tradition is ours as a national heritage, always in discernment with that of neighbours who are south-Slavic. It turns out, after all, that for the New Democracy and the Opposition, this is not enough, as if it were so many years else. In both cases, that is to say, internal issues, but also external ones, the same political behaviour is introduced by the Opposition: in the absence of the slightest proposal, positions, objectives, development strategy or foreign policy on the 'Macedonian'. Just zero criticism and refusal to take any position. I am sorry to note that it characterises an inexperienced political decline of the two major parties in the country - I mean the New Democracy in particular, but also the PASOK, which has, however, already been degraded - and the risks of making public speech precisely because of this lack are visible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. It is obvious that they are unable to create new political, new visions, to respond positively to the new political environment. The policies of subjection are their identity and the persistence in 2014 is a continuation of a dangerous right-wing rule. The dignity policies, which we seek, are active and present and at the same time are feasible. They make us a useful processor of popular demands. We are a great, willing political force of progressive transformation for the country, but also for the whole of the Balkans. We leave behind the policies of the neoliberal elite that have bankrupt the country. We are leaving behind the policies of patriocapade and nationalism condemned by the Balkans to violence, fear and intolerance. We build with a great, new momentum an open, cooperative and fair society in Greece and in the Balkans of our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u785	Thank you. Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u786	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today and generally these days have triumphed Stalinism and Titoism. Methods used once, which are methods of permeating the political opponent, threats by leakages of selectives, and conducive any opposite view to suffocation, have been reborn. Whatever threat is made by those who have been proclaimed, one is the answer: agreement so far on the scepticism of Greece and our governments have not brought and have never signed. Twenty-five years were having conversations, exchanging documents, but only you. And to make it clear, in Prespes, Mr. Tsipras will be there. With him, however, Mr. Kammenos will be with him. He'll deceive his ghost. There is no way the people who voted for Mr Kammenos can see that with the attitude he holds, he is resisting. We have Mr Janakopoulos, who told us that it would be such an agreement, which we would be very difficult to find an argument to disagree with, Mr Janakopoulos, who today incriminated New Democracy for behaviour in this Chamber this morning, because, of course, when the lie is revealed, the enthusiasm is the only sanctuary that he also makes targeting his opponent. I want you to tell me, though, what is the operative cause of all this? Who raised up all these phenomena? In this Chamber, not the dissident ministers, who now come here with the handkerchiefs and the nice style, but some people called us "shooting with parliamentary cloak". And Mr Kammenos told us "Tsolacoglou" and "German gypsies" that should overthrow us. Remember these, because it was democratically elected and that government. I also see that you are passionately defending all Skopje's arguments and inventing more to give them to their patronage. It is incomprehensible for Mr Tsipras to sign for himself, without an agreement between the people and the political world, without his co-government, which ensures that he is declared. At the moment we are facing a political anomaly. Incomprehensible and suspicious, which means that the consideration exists and is on one of the two chessboards in front of Mr. Reggling and was related to the country's loans. Mr Anastasiades in Cyprus - who I saw made a statement in favour of the agreement - before going to an informal dinner with Akintzis, convenes a council of political leaders. When was this conversation here? If the motion of censure had not been made, the Members of the House would not have read the agreement. And why did Bulgaria suddenly change its mind? Because in 2012 he said: "Nothing "North Macedonia", because it includes our own territories. What happened all of a sudden? And why are you suddenly giving them the right to self-determination and that they are 'Macedonians'? Of course what will they say? "I am not Alexander's. I'm Cyril and Method. And we don't exactly speak Macedonian. It is another language that is South-Slavic." When they come out, that's what they say. You recognize them as homogeneous - because they have so far been told that they have a minority that will immediately turn it into a family - you recognise them as an altruism in Greece. This is clearly the case. It says the agreement:'both parties agree on the need to abstain from all kinds of alkaliism and revision'. So Greece, in your opinion, has a perfume. "Each Party..." - says - "... commits itself formally and states that nothing in its Constitution, as is currently the case today or as the future will be, will not be interpreted..." etc. So he's in trouble with our constitution, too. You did it to Zafe when he said we should all open our constitutions. "And each part..." - as you say - will discourage propaganda activities that are likely to undermine chauvinism. Has Greece shown this and suddenly put it into the deal and bound Greece too? And a committee of experts will also be set up to examine, he says, the objective scientific interpretation of historical events, based on genuinely established and scientifically solid historical sources. They're gonna have us rewrite the story, too? In fact, this agreement also offers an exit to the Aegean Sea, where the Skopje wish for the "Macedonia of the Aegean" will also be met. Because, I remind you, they also celebrate Aegean children on the border, as you know. So you're giving them an exit to the Aegean. Why? Don't they have 25% Albanians? They can find themselves as an enclosed state of exit in the Adriatic, via Albania. So you're gonna give it all up? This is a very bad agreement, because it will have immediate results in terms of school books! It says, "It will be ensured that each of the parties has no school manual or auxiliary school material..." - that is, the Secrets of the Valtos! - "...to use the year after the signature of the present". In other words, next year, a committee will be here to examine whether we will teach Paul Mella. And I would like to say this: ladies and gentlemen, this state continues to have a robbery behaviour. He did not have time to deny Alexander the Great, and he grabbed Cyril and Methodium. And because there is a condition in the agreement that there will be intervention in symbols too, so we now use Cyril and Methodium, they will say it is theirs. Zaev said now, on the 13th day of the month, that "The Macedonian language, the Macedonian people, Macedonian, Macedonian are protected and strengthened once and for all." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One second, Mr President. We stand proudly in front of Cyril and Methodium, Climent, Naum, Godche Delchev and other Bulgarian comedians! So, what did you guys do now? Not only did you solve the problem, because it was ridiculous to say it was Alexander the Great, to wear thoughtfulness to put horses on their young people, etc. - that no one believed them - but this is where you put them a new suppression, Titoiko. You're telling them that they're theirs, Cyril and Methodium now, and they're going to Illiden's period now. In other words, we have not had all our sufferings so long, which, after all, were touching and the limits of ridiculousness, now you are building up from the beginning and giving them the right to come into our country, to control symbols, which - he says - will be removed if the other side disagrees. Have you read these? Have you read this deal? Do you accept it? What's going on here, I don't really want to call it. The next generations will find it in front of them. And if the Skopje had an existential problem by now, there will be an existential problem from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u787	Thank you very much, Mrs Buddhism. The former Minister, Mr Theodore Dritsas, followed by SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u788	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now how can anyone sanctify after all this? In another tone I wanted to speak and say to Mr Hatzidakis, who is very sympathetic and very careful, that when he spoke this morning, after this disgraceful intervention of the golden neonazi, the SYRIZA Members' wing applauded him, as we applauded the intervention of the spokesman for the Democratic Association and of the KKE, precisely because our tone is to show this danger, which through such patrio-vocations, can incite the snake's egg. And not just to incubate, but to come out in a very dangerous way on the surface. However, what Mrs Vulture said is more from national moderation, from betrayal on our part? How is it described? How would Mrs Vulture and many other Members of this House describe everything she has discovered in this agreement? So, if we are traitors, if we are brokers, if the paw is at stake, if the nation, our history, our culture, our sovereignty, then, indeed, you must all rise up and indeed raise a question not only of the government falling but of setting up courts and barracks if we are traitors. Is that what this is? Are we going to have this conversation? When one makes this debate and thus raises issues for policy purposes, he is irresponsible, he is also dangerous. So we realise that we cannot ignore the fact that our choices - indeed have nothing to do with the Golden Dawn - can legalise consciences and thoughts and practices and get their brains on fire in this way? The circumstances are critical. Greece is still in bankruptcy, in the process of complete overrun of bankruptcy. We are not in the comfortable period, however huge steps have been taken thanks to both the great sacrifices of the Greek people and as much as we are on the road to normality. Let us see, then, a motion of censure that "shatters the glass of indignation of the Greek people". That's what the proposal says. If we discuss the agreement reached between the Greek and FYROM governments, the Foreign Ministers and the Prime Ministers, we can all make a few comments, but to God, it cannot be the case that this agreement is not only within the national line, but also that it confirms it to the greatest extent, and indeed with the modern regulations and the issues that have been raised all along the way. And a complex name with a geographical designation - is it or is it not in the national line? - and erga omnes versus all. Is that or isn't that on the national line? The national line there, if I remember correctly, stopped by adding 'jointly accepted by both parties'. Here is the issue that is judged. If it will be mutually acceptable to both parties. So why should it not be mutually acceptable to both parties and to lay down conditions for progress, national unity, understanding and calm treatment? A deal doesn't end matters. The future is the development of the peoples of the Balkans, the establishment of full trust, friendship and cooperation. It's got a real future. It does not end with any signature of any contract. But I read from the text itself: They underline both the principles of non-violence of borders and territorial integrity that the existing border is a lasting international border, that it is necessary to abstain and be bound by any kind of intrinsicism and revision, that they agree to their obligation to move in accordance with the United Nations Charter and international law and not to interfere in any pretext or manner in other internal affairs and jurisdictions. These are coming as a follow-up to the interim agreement and they are coming precisely to put the official name of the second part, namely FYROM, 'Republic of Northern Macedonia', for we have heard here that the name is not even mentioned in the convention! Of course it is. This is the Greek translation: 'Republic of Northern Macedonia'. It will be the constitutional name, erga omnes, binding. The nationality of the second part - FYROM - will be 'Macedonian citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia', as will be entered in all travel documents. The official language of the second part, namely FYROM, will be the "Macedonian" language, "as recognised by the third United Nations Conference on Standardising the geographical names held in Athens in 1977", i.e. acquired, truly agreed by the two countries in the past. The terms ‘Macedonia’ and ‘Macedonians’ shall have the meaning as defined in Article 7 of this Agreement. Article 7 clarifies the distinctiveness of cultures, historical traditions, of each distinguishing relationship with that name, because exactly from the geographical area of Macedonia 51% was given to the Greek side and the rest, less to Bulgaria and others in the former Yugoslavia. These are well-known, acquired, trivialized things of the torture route, not the negotiation of the SYRIZA Government, of all governments. All this is reflected in the most up-to-date, detailed, clear and binding way, in a referendum, with constitutional amendments, with all that the agreement itself has binding on it. Indeed, if the other side ratifys them and does so, then the Greek side will come to say that it is genuinely committed. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to refer to what Mr Maniotis said last night that we are giving the EEZ. Mr. Theocharis stinged at others. If that's possible! Mr. Kumucaco, say it. He was on the interim deal. This is an obligation under International Maritime Law. You're not giving up anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u789	There's no obligation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u790	Please, look better. It's an obligation and it doesn't have any automatic function. It's in a frame. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed the other side: Ivanov, Mitsoski, all those in VMRO. He is a associated member of the VMRO with the European People's Party. Mitsoski says: "Macedonia is losing its identity. He's losing some of his acquaintances that determines us as a nation - state and citizens. She's changing her identity. Zafe proceeded with a contributory agreement for Macedonia. It caused damage to the country'. What can I tell you? If Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Mitsoski take the hand and go to Merkel and to the European People's Party and tell them: 'Destroy our countries, Greece and FYROM?' It would be a political act.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u791	Mr. Dritsa, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u792	I'm done. One final word, Mr President. The national insecurity is outdated in our country, and there are reasons for that. The task of political leadership is to stimulate national self-confidence, not by lies, but by plans and prospects of open horizons that really allow peaceful progress, not only our country and our people - because no one can be alone - but especially the entire area of the Balkans and the Mediterranean. This bet is being fought by our government and no Conservative party can be reversed with patriotous positions of this kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u793	Thank you very much. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u794	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to inform Mr. Polakis that from what I say he's not going to understand anything, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u795	Mr. Polakis, it's not personal. This is not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u796	It's not a personal matter. He's shown me he doesn't understand me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u797	With what he said, one of the staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u798	In fact, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time, following many majority Members, I have been trying to see how many of them are aware of the subject they have been talking about today in the National Representation and, above all, the subject of its evolutionary course, namely the problem that has been created since today. I am referring to many of you who have come here and in a comfort, complete, almost autistic satisfaction that the government has won the negotiation, what you have not told us about is what the problem has been solved and what was finally resolved. Because with a simple reading of UN Security Council Resolutions 817 and 843, in conjunction with the interim agreement, you would see that one was the issue that we had to resolve, which, as you repeatedly like to call it, nameless. But you and Mr Kotzias and Mr Prime Minister in particular managed to solve two other problems, for which there was no solution. And what are these? The issue of nationality and the subject of language. So, Mr Dritsa, you will allow me to say that no one can actually blame you in the way you mean, but it can easily accuse you of being auctioned for the benefit of the Skopje. It's very simple. If you read the text of this particular, the controversial, which we made the motion of distrust to the Government of this particular, victory, as you say it, you will see that in Article 1(3)(b), while accepting as the name of the state of Skopje the "Republic of Northern Macedonia", but as citizenship you do not assign to them the North-Macedonian, as you should have set it. Citizenship, as other fellow Members have said from this step, is the legal link between the citizen and the state. And since the state is northern Macedonia, so the citizen cannot be Macedonian, he must be North-Macedonian. So in this case, which is wider in the name of citizenship, we are not talking about citizenship but about nationality. At the same time in case (c) of the same paragraph it is laid down that the language of that State will be Macedonian. There was no obligation here for you to resolve the language issue of Skopje. But why are you doing this? You obviously do, because some wanted to be more easily managed on the issues that you wanted to have the great satisfaction that all the great people who are congratulating you feel, because you have actually relieved them of an annoying retreat. Watch out now because I say the last, because as a Macedonian language you come here and almost most of you, because I know that many are and dominate people with engraving knowledge of things, so many of you know that Macedonian language does not exist. So you bring a childish argument and say: 'We recognized it in 1977 at the 3rd Conference in Athens what? The UN Department of Technical Cooperation, which intended at this meeting to transfer the geographical terms of the Balkans from the Cyrilic alphabet and the Greek alphabet to the Latin, to facilitate road traffickers. So there is one point here, ladies and gentlemen. If you look and read this, which is also the case in the agreement, there is talk of an alphabetical - Macedonian. Does any of you think that Cyril alphabet is so crucial to the identity of a language? I believe and you know that no, because I will tell you this, Cyrillic is the alphabet and Russian language and Bulgarian and Skopje. So the alphabet has no discretionary power to give character and identity to a language. The other thing that is most important, I believe that some of you need to know that there is a writing called Karamanlis. So this script uses the Greek alphabet to write the Turkish language. They are these books that used until the beginning of World War I in Cappadocia, balanced Greeks, who continued to use the Greek alphabet, but had become Turkish-speakers. From that point of view, do you think that the Turkish language could become Greek? So these excesses are hiding...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u799	Not balanced. The Gospel was not needed by the Islamics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u800	Thank you. I accept it, but that's not why. I accept that, but I think you agree with the factual evidence. So what's your intention? It's very simple. It has been said by several colleagues who have produced the Step here. This, ladies and gentlemen, has happened with the very great success that you think has indeed taken on the laurels of this glorious government, which will eventually become ashes in the near future, is the perception that many of you have of the concept and functioning of the nation in history. Indeed, what you are doing is stigma, is the trace left in history by politics, when it allows nationalism to penetrate it. Because that's exactly what you do, you nullify every logic, every concept of nation. Try with what some of you have told us, that supposedly nation is an imaginary community, out of place and time, some heirous population elements found accidentally in a territorial area that may have been a Slavonia, as they were called in the early 10th century C.E., where Slavians went and before they were reelected had this unity among themselves. But fortunately, that a very great wise man, the late Nikolaos Svoronos, who was symptomically and fought through the ranks of the Renewing Left, who some of you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u801	Mr. Javarra, we should end up with Mr. Svoron.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u802	I shall conclude, Mr President. He gave us a very solid definition of what a nation is. And we all know today that a nation is a community of people shaped historically, which is aware that it is a united and mutually united whole, which has a physics of unified cultural and political ones many times and has also been aware of its integrity towards neighbouring social groups. They, of course, evolved after the second half of the 18th century and were so-called nation states.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u803	Mr. Javarra, you were clear. We understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u804	So you, and I end, with what you are doing, namely giving the language Macedonian, that is, the most essential element for a nation, but also the territory of Macedonian and ethnic Macedonian, you have given the form of the state of Skopje the formation of a nation. That's why some must be ashamed of when they come here and with a high hand, addressing Karamanlis and Bakoyannis, they're posing as prosecutors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u805	Mr. Javarra, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u806	I say the last sentence, Mr President. Listen, gentlemen, let's get this over with. In 2008 Kostas Karamanlis as Prime Minister and Dora Bakoyannis as Minister of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u807	Mr. Javarra, don't start about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u808	I'll say a sentence. You cannot be tolerant in fifteen that have been produced from here and to us such restrictions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u809	We're in 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u810	So, listen, let's get this over with. In 2008, in Bucharest, Prime Minister Constantas Karamanlis and Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis went against the wishes of the powerfuls of the Earth and managed to beat Greece a great success. You, however, went today according to the alleged or expressed wishes of the strong, but instead of Greece winning, others defeated, and that will be a stigma for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u811	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. I call on the Minister, Mr. Cironi, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u812	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u813	It wasn't personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u814	It was an insult.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u815	You have thirty seconds with a little respect for the speakers to see the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u816	Mr President, it was an insult, and I have to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u817	Mr. Polakis, you have thirty seconds. Be quiet to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u818	The staff were the beginning of Mr. Javara's speech, who tried to underestimate what I said before, saying: "What I shall say is not understood by Mr. Paulakis."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u819	He's made a political assessment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u820	So I also reply to the political assessment. First of all, to talk about the substance...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u821	Did you see where we ended up? Mr. Javarra, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u822	Wait, Mr. Javarra, I'll answer everything. Firstly, on the substance, although intellectual clay is a way of measuring a trained capacity and does not always have objective results, I should like to inform you that my mental clay, measured by three methods at a student age, is around 138. If you have knowledge of the paintings, you'll understand what it means. Secondly, in a political context, it is not only the technocrats or the experts who understand it, because if they play in a cafeteria my speech and your speech, from your own point of view, a people won't understand the gray talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u823	So you saw me catching up with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u824	So you don't do politics with what you're saying, because what you did was dicolibism. It's all right, it's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u825	Mr. Polakis, however, we already have the Minister in Stepa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u826	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u827	I have a personal one too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u828	Let go, Mr. Kumucaco. You're still young. You said it the other day. Do not interfere with these. You're a kid. In a piece, I'll answer. You said something about the language and the alphabet. You have consciously concealed that in the following article of the Agreement it is clearly stated that this 'Macedonian language' belongs to the South-Slavic languages. And it's not that the alphabet determines what it is. Because a number of languages have come from the Latin alphabet in Europe. Because in the end, you didn't make a strong criticism of the agreement. Absolutely nothing! Because what was accomplished today is much, much bigger than what Karamanlis supposedly achieved in 2008,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u829	Minister, this is a reply from the parliamentary representative. It's not your answer right now to Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u830	You know that well, but you're trying to blur it. You didn't make it. Mr. Chironi, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u831	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u832	Apologies accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u833	Mr President, let me reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u834	Mr. Javarra, please leave this theater now. Let it go, it's serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u835	Mr President, please. It's insulting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u836	We cannot discuss concepts at 12 o'clock and 10 o'clock at midnight with another hundred speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u837	Mr. Javarra, please! Let's not open this dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u838	Please, Minister, I don't personally have one with you. I have with Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u839	But are these serious things? I'm at the Step!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u840	Mr. Javarra, I'm telling you it can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u841	Sit down, please! Respect. It's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u842	At the moment there is a dialogue of understanding of language and concepts between you. We can solve them at the House's café.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u843	He said Slavic languages are Macedonian.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u844	No, he didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u845	Is that personal, Mr. Javarra? There's a limit on strength. Get out and say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u846	Mr. Chironi, please. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u847	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are dealing with our history and at last we must each one of us here today what he does and what he says is to look at his children and his grandchildren in the eyes. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] And I'm starting first with the name of the neighboring country. So today, where your governments have led us, we have a country with a complex name - not erga omnes, only for the external use of the UN - called 'Macedonia'. And I'm asking very simply: How did we get here? And I'm not going back to the civil war or going back to Alexander the Great. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, gentlemen here in front of the New Democracy, respect a little. I'm talking to you. Respect us a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u848	We're amused by Mr. Paulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u849	I'm sorry, go outside and have fun.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u850	Minister, don't answer. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u851	So under the Rules of Procedure, 3567/1991, it is a regulation of the European Union - someone who had forgotten it, signed by Mr Samaras, stops trade relations in 1991 with Yugoslavia. And he says here about the regime that will now be applied separately and independently of the Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia. It is now the republics born of the debris of former Yugoslavia. So here, you've signed this. And don't tell me it's not fresh. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have therefore signed at the beginning of December 1991 that you are making independent trade relations with what you are currently counting. Then you were in "yes" to everything. Then, of course, what the European Union said, you signed it. And you didn't look at the consequences of this text. Because then Greece had to put the veto on and say that here there has been a loose end to the civil war since 1945, and it has said that no, these people are a state and we cannot have independent trade relations. Then Yugoslavia was divided, and after a few years we had at our northern border what you are currently daunting, but you are not admitting it, a country called Macedonia. So this is the crime that Mr Samaras accepted today. You completely deny it. I heard Mrs Buddhism and many others. I heard about the proceedings, I heard about one thing, about the other. We'll talk about this. I'm asking something very simple: Do you accept the complex name? And if you accept it, why are you going to the rally? For those who go to the rally completely refuse to negotiate with the neighbouring country. So, as a New Democracy, when your President here last year, in the summer of 2017, said that the country's national position is a complex name with geographical identification in front of Macedonia - his words say - how it is possible to tell us at this time that we are "go to the rally", which you know very well that there with Mr Barbarousi will be those who do not want Macedonia at all. That's what they call at the rallys. Do you accept it or not? You're not saying that, you're hiding behind this. Unless you're bluffers, as your Vice President said. Are you bluffers? Were you kidding then? You were hiding behind Gruevski? Do you want or do you want a composite name? And now we're going to the important issue of language. We heard that the Macedonian language was not accepted in the UN, but that it was accepted to translate the alphabets into Latin. There, however, are two alphabets that were accepted on that day, the Cyrillic Serb alphabet and the Cyrillic alphabet Macedonian. Because you know very well that there is a Bulgarian Cyril alphabet and Russian Cyril alphabet. It is not generally Cyrillic alphabet, as it is not generally Latin alphabet. On that day, then, in 1977, there were two clerical alphabets: the Serbian and Macedonian. And I ask: How can there be a Macedonian alphabet without a Macedonian language? But then you told us the other unbelievable: that only six languages, he says, are recognized in the UN. In other words, in order to understand this, neither the Greek language is recognized, nor the Serbian nor the Turkish nor any other. Can we get a little serious? Are these the UN languages, the six translated into its texts, the official languages or all the languages of ninety-three countries? So there's Macedonian language, because it has its alphabet and it wasn't innocent that day. It was just then that there was no problem, but it was recently invented. And of course I will go with you and say "good is a South-Slavish language, which for the first time is accepted". Why did Mrs Vulture tell us until a while ago 'Come on, Alexander the Great, slowly, what happened'? - But that's what you said it was the crime, and that's why you couldn't find it. Now all of a sudden, did Alexander the Great become easy? So I ask this language, which is Slavic, what is it? Is she a Bulgarian, Russian, Serbian? And here, take very good care of what you will answer, because if you say Bulgarian - because the others are not, and you know that - then you are playing with other dangerous nationalism. And so we go to the famous Macedonian nation. I will say that Mr. Javaras, who read Svoron, remembers it when we talk about all nations and not when we speak only of the Greek nation. He read it very well. But what Mr Javarras says, if he does not recognize it to our neighbours, then he is not just with Sboron and how the nation is defined, but I am afraid he is becoming nationalism if we only recognise it for ourselves. But if here we are talking about Macedonian nation, I will read you a text, which many people can recognize. So it says this text: "It was a alloy of all Balkan ethnic groups then Macedonia. Greeks, Bulgarians, Romanians, Serbs, Albanians, Christians and Muslims lived french under the heavy yoke of Turks. Their language was the same, Macedonian, a alloy and that of Slavica and Greek, mixed with Turkish words. As in Byzantine times, the populations were so involved that you hardly separated a Greek from a Bulgarian, the two tribes that dominated. National consciences had the Macedonian only". The national conscience Mr. Javarras told us a moment ago. "But when the Bulgarians declared their church independence, and recognized in Constantinople the leader of the Bulgarian church, Exarch instead of the Patriarch, and when the 1872 Synod declared the Bulgarians to be schistics, Macedonia was divided into patriarchal Greeks and exarchal Bulgarians, the abbreviators, even the families, were separated." This is not what SYRIZA writes, nor the Ecumenical Greens, which I belong to, but which Penelope Delta writes about Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity. And I will read you something else, which I have taken from the Society of Macedonian Studies, the book of Paul Chami "Macedonian Games". It was published in 1975. So Paul Melas says here himself - it is from his last report to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - that: "At this point, without waiting for all the drivers, he was led to Lehovon and there to Prekanan, where the notorious Bulgarian priests and teacher were killed immediately. Both possessed an important place in Comitato. Assembling the peasants, their own ranks, I recommended to them, former orthodox, by force, that they return to orthodox. I asked them to tell me freely whether their consciences were Bulgarian and their beliefs were shattered." And people said they are not Bulgarians and will willingly embrace the Orthodox Patriarchate." He goes on to say that he had found a younger thirty - five years old, which even says that he is developed, everyone respects him and loves him in all the districts. If he is not determined to take arms in the spring, he himself will mean - he will be horrific against the murderers because he will bring not only our own, but also many schisms against him and influence and trembling against him." Paul Melas claims these slavours to fight with them. Village - village claiming, not to go with the Bulgarians, and here you easily tell us that this language is Bulgarian! What Bulgarian nationalists say! So we're finished by Alexander the Great. I'll say two more things. First of all, NATO and the European Union. All this has been done, he says, and we thanked them for NATO and the European Union. But read the interim agreement, which you handed us over. She's the one we're working with. Greece has no right to prevent this country from entering NATO - take note of what name - FYROM. Macedonia, that is, complex and without erga omnes. Greece has no right to veto. If tomorrow Mr Trump or any NATO partner wants to put the country, Greece cannot veto. That's what the interim agreement says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u852	That's what they wanted and they couldn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u853	Read the interim agreement to see what we received. We've received Mr. Samara's self-esteem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u854	In 2008 we ignored that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u855	In 2008 they didn't want us to put them without us. But if we are right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u856	Oh, they didn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u857	Yes, yes, please very much. What do I mean exactly? I mean, if tomorrow's foreign policy changes and prefers to put this country, without Greece's agreement, we cannot veto. What we managed in 2008, the interim agreement, we lost The Hague...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u858	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u859	Learn to inform the citizens. We're talking more about them today, so they can figure out what's going on. [[At the point, the end of the speech bell of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] So I am thinking, Mr President, and I shall be coming to an end. What's different from the patriot. The patriot is fighting for his homeland. He is struggling, as he can, with the data, to solve problems and defend his country's interests. The pedophile bears enemies to protect the ribbons inside. That's what all the patriots do. Let me remind you that the patriots kicked my grandparents out of Pontus, split Cyprus and these lionisms, reaching beyond the Saigon, or that we would take Cyprus with some coups of the Samson type - we know to what political family they all belonged to - we suffered great national disasters. And if this country continues to be called "Macedonia" as well, without solving the other problems, I warn you that this time will come, which you will also see in NATO as FYROM. Because here we are right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u860	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u861	I shall conclude, Mr President. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u862	One minute, you, one minute to each, we won't finish. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u863	Constantine Karamanlis, the oldest, ended the pre-eternal conflict with Bulgaria - and there we talked about a pre-eternal conflict - with courage and honor all that Paul Melas did, because the conflicts really must end at one time. On the contrary, these days you rabies are struggling to perpetuate a conflict, which is not really a long time ago, it was not a product of politics, which are much later of Paul Melas and the Macedonian Struggle. These are policies that emerged after the civil war, after 1945 and these enthusiasms you want to continue. And I ask: do we want a friend or an enemy in our north? Do we want to humiliate someone? Do we want to leave them in the situation he's in now? Do we want a Gruevski to come back with Alexanders, or do we want to solve this problem at last? And why are we so scared? Why are we so much with the empire? When did these people that I proved to us a moment ago that in the Balkan War many of them wanted to bring them on our side?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u864	Minister, you've reached thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u865	I am therefore appealing to you to consider our history. Consider what we received. Forget the party lines for once. Vote consciously and support this agreement. It is the best thing that has come to Greece since this conflict began in the past twenty-five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u866	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, because we are going to go up to number 110, which means that there are twenty-one more to seven minutes to each - make the calculation - we have two and a half more hours. So, in fact, we're going by 3:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u867	That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u868	I can't hear anything. Whether you keep the time or whoever is not interested can be deleted and go home sooner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u869	Mr President, I would like to make a proposal: sit down by yourself this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u870	Shall I sit by myself in the morning? I can delete. I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u871	Will you change the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u872	We'll change the time, because I have such an order from the Bureau. The speakers have been announced. Keep track of times so we won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u873	Until 2:00, we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u874	We don't have until 2:00. There's no time. It's until the speakers finish. Of all you, who do not keep track of times, we have led to these results. You ask for the floor on personal grounds all the time and we've come to be here. And it's not just you. They're all parliament officials too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u875	Mr President, I would like to make a proposal. I think I'll say something that's neither right nor left. It's a matter of common sense. Mr President, it is not reasonable to say that we will go by 3.00 - this morning - and tomorrow - as I discussed with the President of Parliament, the vote is scheduled at 21.00 p.m. to 21.30 p.m. We have three hours until midnight, instead of sitting here doing this late night show! I'm sorry about the expression I'm using. Let us stop some more reasonable time, after an hour, start tomorrow at 9 a.m. and go until night, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u876	Mr Hatzidakis, it is a hundred and sixty-two speakers in total, that is, we are talking about it being another seventy tomorrow to speak. With the times you're going, we won't even end tomorrow midnight. You want to shorten the time and take it to five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u878	You don't want to. So what's your problem sitting by 2:30?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u879	You're having time, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u880	I eat the time or you interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u881	Mr President, I have a proposal: under the responsibility of the Bureau - I do not account for anything more - there has been no time, unfortunately. Secondly, with seven minutes and so many speakers we will not finish on Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u882	If you keep the time, Mr. Xydakis, we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u883	What I'm telling you is the technique. The essential thing is this: from one point to the next, when it is dark, the debate is degenerating. We have degenerative features.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u884	Good, you need to mitigate your time and be in your time. You know all your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u885	In the debate on the Multifibre Arrangement and the medium-term of about sixty with seventy speakers, they never spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u886	What do you want us to do? Do you want to delete speakers tomorrow? Don't you all want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u887	I didn't say that. Sixty with seventy people were autographed. Let's be a little more cozy. Let's set time. Let's go to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u888	Don't waste any more time. We will continue and if I do not have another mandate to change something, then we will go until the hundred and ten speakers are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u889	It's degrading for a Member to speak at 3:00 at dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u890	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u891	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u892	I think that with Parliament's approval at seven minutes to close the microphone to the Members and ten minutes to the Ministers. From ten minutes to thirteen or seven minutes and upwards everyone swears only.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u893	I don't disagree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u894	Close the microphone at seven and ten minutes. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u895	But if I close the microphones, we go at 3:00, Mr. Kegeroglu. That's what you don't understand. If we let time get away, we'll go to 4:00 and 5:00. Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u896	It's a few moments in the life of politicians, who are top-level. Most of this is about the history of the moment, when they are in the middle of developments, when politicians have to make the right decisions, expressing the people who elected them, supported them and waiting for solutions from them to the chronic problems they have suffered. One such moment is today, ladies and gentlemen. After so many years of recurring, with nationalist krone, with ridiculous patriotism stories, this government, which, with diplomatic efforts, based on the national line, supported all parties except the LAOS and obviously those who came from there and moved to the New Democracy party, manages to resolve a matter that was still almost thirty years away. The importance of this agreement lies in the interest of our country to stop the former Yugoslavia of Democratic Macedonia being an unstable state, so that by joining formations, it can avoid the collapse through civil divisions. Because uncertainty with the existence of the Albanian and Muslim element, as well as with the influences of Russia and Turkey, can lead to its division between Albania, Bulgaria and Serbia, and it is the only case that our country can be threatened, since there will then be various Balkan mafia. We must all realise that our country can only benefit from any agreement that reduces uncertainty and instability in the Balkans. This agreement is an important step towards stability and smoothness. However, the satisfaction that should be diffuse in society and in this Chamber does not exist. The country is divided under the sole responsibility of Officer Responsibility. While the agreement is hailed on world press headlines, when the world's largest Western countries and foreign politicians give their credit to the two leaders for their efforts, the sad today's motion of distrust for purely micro-political purposes coincides uniquely with the statements made by unscrupulous Gruevski. Several people are looking here for what Greece is winning, without thinking about our neighbours having rights. They have rights to self-determination and to their own conscience. There are no friendships and peace when there is dominating and dominating. And, of course, it is not by chance that you assemble with unscrupulous nationalists, since on the one hand you have brought them to Vice-Presidents in your party and on the other you are trying to fish in the blur of so-called Macedonian patriotics and extreme right circles. Thank you very much for everyone you're talking about. There is a place to exist in the infamous Barbarousi, which today from the sacred Step of the Greek Parliament called on the Greek army to coup. It is the first time since the rehabilitation of the Republic in 1974 that such things are heard in the Greek Parliament. Attention, you breed the monster! Even the Golden Eagles themselves, the fascists themselves, so that they do not lose their seats in Parliament, which otherwise dedicate it politically, have done away with Barbarouse. Attention again, your practice in recent days, the generalised attack on the President of the Republic, either at the anti-constitutional request of the Head of New Democracy or with the irresponsible statements by the former - or should I assume that the President of the New Democracy, Mr Samaras, is present? - or the statements made by the Interior Department of New Democracy, Mr Vorides, on unscrupulous collapsing, lead to the depreciation of the institutions of democracy and to the feeding of the most nationalistic, fascist and darkening circles. Once again, because the position of Mr Hatzidakis will not be enough. The invention of the motion of censure is clearly the result of the internal correlations in the New Democracy Party, against the opportunity found on the road of one, in the declaration of liberal politician and the defender of modernism, to prove that it remains true even in its family traditions and beliefs, against nationalist rhetoric. To collide with logical and moderate voices, heard through the party itself, prefers to be blamed behind the extreme right-wing patriotic krone that helped some build political paths and political careers. And I wonder again: Are you hostages of Antonis Samaras? And despite the best political conditions today, as Mrs Bakoyannis admitted, you are making a motion of distrust that is investing in the deadlock and unresolved. It is a continuation of a political choice that is isolated from Greece from the rest of the world. It is a proposal that makes it difficult to plumbing and open the country to the rest of the world. It is a proposal of goodwill for internal party balances. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, with the agreement, puts a barrier to the confusion of history and geography, a barrier to the rapprochement of our national issues for micro-political purposes, a barrier to tensions with our neighbouring countries. And the Civic Opposition, instead of even suffice as an observer, is drawn up with the extreme right rhetoric. The New Democracy officially passes on the bank of intolerance and nationalism. Of course we will not follow it in the ideological offense that a European party has become part of Europe's marginal political forces. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution of our dispute with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been done with soberness, seriousness and insurers for our interests. Support for the agreement is not a support for the government. It's a political choice between the new and the old. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Between insight and short-sighted politics, between closed and open Greece. And we don't want a country enclosed. We want and fight for a country at the heart of developments and not for a country of nationalist, for a country that is open to the world and not for a country that is theocratic, for a country that is loyal to European values, for a country of leader in the Balkans. This government once again proves that it is here for the difficult ones. That's why the Greek people chose it, so they'll choose it again. That is why we have an obligation to close our ears to the various extortion, moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u897	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. The proposal from the Bureau is to go to '101', that is to say by 2.00 p.m. to Mr Vlassi. I'll give you the names. Mr. Karagunis, Mr. Kasapidis, Mr. Triantafyllidis, Mr. Tasoulos, Mr. Vardakis, Mrs.Christophilopoulos, Mr. Kritsis, Mr. Kavadas, Mr. Beyalas, Mr. Pallis and Mr. Vlas. If you keep track of times, we'll be gone at 2:00. And we start 9:30 in the morning with the rest of us. Does the House agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u898	Good. Come on, Mr. Carraguni.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u899	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of all the things we have heard so far in this debate, ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear that this motion of censure has a self-evident dimension, since the government has 'packed' an agreement which is a withdrawal of Greece from the 30-year standing national positions, positions which are identical to the positions and the great majority of the Greek people. But I will not go any further into this. After all, many colleagues have already spoken very thoroughly and very nicely. I would just like to point out, for my part, a broader constitutional dimension which puts all this handling on its own, which is enough to demonstrate that the government does not have democratic legitimacy and therefore any basis for what it is doing. We must remember that Parliament is statically expressing the correlations of the political forces, but they are evolving every day in a way that goes beyond the parliamentary arithmetic. That is why, after all, there was an explicit provision in the Constitution on the dissolution of the Parliament by the President of the Republic in the event of obvious discomfort with the popular feeling. The provision may have changed, but it has changed in the sense that it is not the question of dismantling the power of the respective President of the Republic, because otherwise the meaning remains, because according to the Constitution, the basis of the constitutional order is popular sovereignty. In that sense, a parliament which does not express it does not actually have legality. The New Democracy therefore argues that the motion of censure against the government should be constitutionally self-evident. Just think about what is happening today. The agreement on the so-called Macedonian, which is the basis for the motion of censure, is already known to have received the approval of a large majority of the political forces. The New Democracy does not vote for it, the Change Movement will not vote for it, the JRC does not vote for it, the Centro Association does not vote for it, even one government partner, the ANELs, said they would not vote for it. So who's finally going to vote for it? I read that in addition to SYRIZA, such an agreement will probably be voted on with some from the Potami and perhaps others. So here I ask: Irrespective of parliamentary correlations, which, as I have said, are static and do not reflect the political reality of society, will Greece decide on one of its most serious national issues, which has kept it open for thirty years, with a majority of SYRIZA, Potami and Papachristopoulos? In other words, we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a political laughter, because even if they found the 151 parliamentary majority, we would still have no democratic legitimacy, because such a parliamentary majority would express a clear minority of the electorate. In other words, we are told that this key decision will be taken by a party, that is, SYRIZA, who, in polls, takes a steady and medium-term average of 20%, another party, Potami, which is not even recorded in polls and in order to fill this vast majority, will also be assisted by Mr Papachristopoulos! How does that sound to you? It seems to me that such a majority is limited democracy and must not pass. National issues, apart from parliamentary majorities, also require real political majority voting. And the shape of SYRIZA, Potami, Papachristopoulos has nothing to do with a real political majority. Their conspiracy to solve such a serious issue is a state fraud, a state genocide. Do you really want to solve matters? Fresh people's mandate. Make an election. And when a new parliament expresses, not statically, but dynamically, political reality, let it decide on genuine political legitimacy. Decisions of major national importance by parties undergoing dissolution and individual government despair will not bind Greece. That is why we must vote on the motion of censure. We have a government of a real minority, which has the political courage to seek solutions to national issues requiring wider consensus, real political and parliamentary majorities and a substantial national line. So I say it again: If you really want to help with national issues, you can call elections. Your political time is over and a few more months still don't allow you to commit the country to biennial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u900	Have you seen how easy and before the seven minutes everything can be done? Come on, Mr. Kasapidi. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u901	Thank you, Mr President. I'm probably going to borrow a minute of my colleague, Mr. Karaguni. One never imagined, ladies and gentlemen, that such an important issue, a national issue, would treat it as such by any Greek government in a period of democracy. I never thought that as a Member of the Greek Parliament I would have to defend the Greekity of our Macedonia in a time of peace with the Greek Government. Gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, Alexander the Great at a critical time for Hellenism united the Greeks, grew Greece, spread the Greek culture, the Greek way of thinking and the Greek way of life. Alexis Tsipras at a critical time for Hellenism divides the Greeks, reduces Greece and sells elements of the Greek spirit and of the Greek civilization which was translated and glorified by Alexander the Great. Recognises Macedonian language, Macedonian ethnicity and surrenders Macedonia's name to our northern neighbours, who were the only relationship they had with these sacred and loyal Greekism and Macedonia's was that of provocative forgery, theft and their ownership. With today's Prime Minister, we feel the Greeks are the state-of-the-art operation of his government, which, instead of asking the Greek people in a referendum if he agrees not on such an important national issue, grants with his own decision the vote of SYRIZA and ANEL MPs, the name of Macedonia to Slavs and Albanian Skopje residents, as well as Macedonian language and ethnicity. If this is not a backward blow to Greece, to Greek history and to Greek people, then what is it? Desert of the Greek people are formed in stones, which relate to the tradition of the sanctuaries and loyals of our Macedonia, for which the blood rivers of innocent Macedonians and thousands of Macedonians from all over Greece have been spilled. Mr Tsipras, you are selling this fight with this agreement and you are totally deceiving the sacrifice of the Macedonians. What our Slavic neighbours have been claiming for decades in every unfair and dark way, you are giving them this agreement, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzia. It is the last betrayal and as traitors you will be faced with Greek history and the Greek people, you and those who vote and cooperate in signing this agreement! It is certain that a future democratic government will seek your responsibilities. For such an important national issue the Greek people should be asked by a referendum. To convene the Council of Political Heads under the President of the Republic and confirm the 1992 resolution. To discuss the agreement with Parliament and finally decide on the Greek people. But you also work as unscrupulous as if you do not know that the main element of the communist propaganda of Tito and Stalin for the establishment of the falsifier state of Macedonia and the old forgers since 1870 has been and remains that the Macedonians are not Greek and that Macedonia belongs to the Macedonians. This view remains, Mr Tsipras, both among the current Skopje residents and their Prime Minister. In a recent festive dictionary, Mr. Zaev said happy because he won the recognition of Macedonian language, identity and ethnicity. Invoked heroes of the Macedonian nation among other things, the Greeks, Thessalonians at the origin of Saint Cyril and Methodium, the missionaries Thessalonians who in 9th C.E. Centuries spread Christianity in writing and orally to the Slavs. The whole world knows their origins, as well as the global scientific community, apart from Mr Zaev, who is either unintentional - unacceptable for a Prime Minister not to know the history of his country - either delineates the new deliverance or better expansion of Skopje to the detriment of Greece. As a Greek Orthodox Christian I am particularly disturbed by this public position and I would expect the Greek Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, regardless of their religious perceptions, to intervene. However, we have seen nothing for three days and no intervention by Mr Tsipras or Mr Kotzias to gather Mr Zaev. Do they agree with him? Then falsely state that the agreement protects the Greek cultural identity and heritage. Mr. Tsipras, please make it clear to Mr. Zaev to state publicly whether he recognises that Macedonian is Greek and that Macedonia is Greek. That is the main question that the Skopjes must answer sincerely to the Greek people. The second is their resignation of all kinds of altruistic views, acts or public reports of the remnants of the communist expansion of Tito and Stalin against Greece. But you have not imposed this. You did not impose the historical truth. You didn't even defend her. You who would change Europe whole and make it dance pentozal, did not manage to convince the weak Skopje about the historical laws of Greece. On the contrary, you delivered it all without any safeguard. Only expectations for party benefit and remaining in power with the support of foreigners, those who until yesterday accused you as imperialists and murderers of the people, and today you are proud to refer to their praises. I fear that the next generations of Greeks will again be forced to defend the holy soils of our Macedonia. You may not be the first gentlemen of SYRIZA to talk about a complex name for Skopje and to blame the previous ones. But Mr. Kotzias, closing the matter, gave it all and he didn't get anything. He claimed that we have already recognised the language, which is false and which does not appear in the evidence published by him. He did it to claim that the game has been lost long ago under the responsibility of the former ones, which is not the case. The truth is, he wanted to move forward from the recognition of the Macedonian language, which loaded it on others, the recognition of the Macedonian nation. With the concession of these nuclear weapons of civilization, language and nation, the Skopje as northern Macedonians and Macedonians to the nation have direct access and rights to the Greek land, history and our culture. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, open the academy of Aeolos for Macedonia and leave it a charm to the mountains of our northern neighbours and the plans for the region. Pure treason and enmity of the Greek people. But you promised more, both in the economy and in the national economy. You misled the Greek people and swept his vote. You are impoverished to make him subject to many of your benefits policy. However, your adjournment for Macedonia cannot in any way cover it and no money. You will be aware, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias, that the bones of the Greek Macedonians are buried in the region you are going to go to, in western Macedonia. Among these Paul Mela, Antonis Vlahakis, Zacharia Papadas, Nikolaos Chotakou, who were all heroically fighting for our Macedonia. Their bones will tremble when you vote for the shameful agreement in the House, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANELs, and you will sign it the next day in the Prespes. You are defiling the sacred soils of western Macedonia with this betrayal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u902	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u903	But you can be sure that the struggle for Macedonia is not gone, now it's starting. Black in elections to those who falsify and forgery history and act as national brokers. The Catalyst in the new Macedonian struggle is the knowledge and dissemination of its glorious history, especially in young people. Together with them we will make the promise to the heroic Macedonians that their sacrifice did not go lost and we will fight for a truly free and democratic Greece, which respects the Greeks' history and sacrifices. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u904	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u905	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u906	What do you want, Mr. Philly?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u907	Wait a minute, it's not just things. Mr. Kasapidis said in his speech that SYRIZA MPs commit the offense of last betrayal, that they are traitors, brokers and that they commit the crime of last betrayal. These words, you realise, cannot be heard indisputably in the Greek Parliament. I'm calling him back what he said. Otherwise, I fear that it is difficult to carry on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u908	Mr. Kasapidis, you are responsible for and accountable to your names, if you please, you may withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u909	Mr President, for the sake of Macedonia, the sanctuary and the fiancés, thousands of Macedonians spilled their blood and thousands of innocent Macedonians were devastated. If what the Macedonians defended with their blood, we give them to this agreement, then if that's not treason, then what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u910	They are recorded in the Minutes, the relevant remark has been made. Mr Kasapidis is responsible and accountable. From there on...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u911	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u912	What do you want, Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u913	If I bother you, Mr President, not to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u914	Patriot cave is to invoke Paul Mella the gentleman...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u915	You're not bothering me at all. Tell me. You just understand that we're starting a "girl" again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u916	If you don't want me to talk, I'm not talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u917	Mr. Chironi, please. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u918	Mr President, I understand the burden of all my fellow Members, especially those from northern Greece. It makes sense these hours, there's a tension in their areas, there was tension in the morning. On the side of SYRIZA, too, serious charges were made against the New Democracy. I would like to see what is said to be seen within this tension and move on. What matters is our views and our views are opinions, I think, of democratic parties, which respect each other and I hope we will stay there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u919	Mr. Hatzidakis, it's clear what you said. I think we've all welcomed it from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u920	Don't tell us traitors!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u921	Minister, please. From this step we have all agreed - and I myself, when I was placed - not to dynamise the climate, not to press on to some people to use the expressions that were spoken this morning. I, once again, Mr. Kasapidis, will urge you, if you will, to withdraw. From there on, you are very clearly responsible and accountable for what you have said, and I would like to end here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u922	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u923	Mr. Xydakis, Mr. Friend has been placed. Please don't start...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u924	No, I'd like to join in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u925	Mr. Philie, let me coordinate this conversation a little. I will give Mr Kasapidis the floor and he can end the matter. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u926	Then for free Paul Mellas was killed, for free all the Macedonians were killed. That's why they fought and defended them with their blood, and we sell them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u927	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u928	Come on, Mr. Xydakis. Please, very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u929	If you give me the microphone. I have listened carefully to Mr Hatzidakis and have listened to the most recent treason that Mr Kasapidis has said. If we repeat what the Golden Eagle, the prosecutor and the police forces are after him for a felony, I do not believe that Mr. Kasapidis is intent on destroying the regime. But if his word, invoking emotion and Paul Mella, is that his present colleagues, who are sworn to the Constitution, must be brought on for treason and that they are traitors, please, either withdraw or go to other situations. There's not that thing right now. If we start telling each other a traitor, we'll never finish. Let's go talk to the golden people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u930	Mr. Xydakis, I, as President-in-Office, did what I had to do to invite him to order and propose that he withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u931	So I call him, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u932	Everyone is responsible and accountable for what he says from there and there are procedures under the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u933	No, it's not like that. Excuse me, we need to talk a little bit political here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u934	Politically, we're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u935	Because it's nice theatricality and say whatever smokes us, but to a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u936	Politically, we're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u937	The persecuted Barbarousi has been erased by Michael. Let the New Democracy take a stand. Let's tell us, we're talking about the ultimate treason?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u938	Mr. Xydakis, you're clear. You've been placed. The comments were made. From there on, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u939	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u940	Mr. Xydakis, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u941	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u942	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u943	A question for you. Because this word is not correct, it must not be heard, you take the initiative to delete from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u944	That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u945	Mr. Loverdo, I don't have that jurisdiction. I cannot delete from the Minutes, because last time, I tried to do so, it was a matter. He is responsible for and accountable to his names, Mr. Kasapidis, and from there on the Rules of Parliament can impose anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u946	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u947	Here you go, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u948	Mr. Kasapidis is responsible for what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u949	I said it myself. You don't have to say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u950	Okay. He's irresponsible with what he says, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u951	It doesn't matter, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u952	The New Democracy must take a clear position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u953	That's what I said. Micah's erased...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u954	There have been comments from Mr. Kasapidis. I beg you very much to end this. Mr. Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u955	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u956	Here you go, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u957	Mr President, to be recorded in the Minutes, I think that Mr Kasapidis' position was the result of his personal charge. I don't think he said it in the legal sense of the term. That's my interpretation. In any case, regardless of the position of Mr Kasapidis personally, it is the position of the New Democracy that we have expressed. We are against this agreement for the reasons I have explained in my position. It's a political position. We think it's the government's fault. We're checking her for that. We have tabled a motion of censure and we want the government to fall on this policy and on it in general. Ending at this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u958	You told us. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. It's been an hour after midnight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u959	We're traitors...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u960	Mr. Philly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u961	Answer directly!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u962	Ladies and gentlemen, come on! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u963	Mr. Philly, don't show!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u964	It's a show if you're also being betrayed for the most treason...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u965	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u966	My location was very clear. And I'm still on that line.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u967	Golden Dawn inside you is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u968	This is the line of the New Democracy. The New Democracy does not speak that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u969	Mr. Hatzidakis, you are clear about the position of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u970	He's not clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u971	He's clear. Please. Please. Mr. Kasapidis is responsible and accountable for his actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u972	"Present" and "Sincere treason" cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u973	Make a request to the Ethics Committee for Mr Kasapidis to be summoned and apologise. And it's over here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u974	How does it end?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u975	No, Mr. Xydakis. It won't go on any longer. Please very much. Come on, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u976	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u977	What's your request? We discussed this in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u978	How does that end? On your own initiative you will ask for the convergence of the Ethics Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u979	I don't have anything to ask for!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u980	Who's gonna ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u981	You'll ask. Please ask and send a letter to the President for the procedure. Everything has been recorded in the Minutes and will be used. We don't have to go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u982	Barbarousis was sentenced by all democratic wings. Mr. Kasapidis invokes fairy tales. To say, "I'm sorry, he's missed me."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u983	We did. Mr. Xydakis, don't want to create impressions now. Please. He doesn't want to apologize. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u984	To be referred to the Ethics Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u985	Do it. Gather signatures and do it. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u986	That the Bureau should be placed on this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u987	The Bureau is in place. He's in class with Mr. Kasapidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u988	Who withdrew?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u989	I personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u990	Did Mr. Kasapidis withdraw?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u991	He didn't withdraw. And I said that he is responsible and accountable to his people, and from there on, if you want to refer him to the Ethics Committee, you can do so. This is the end of the matter with this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u992	That's not how it ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u993	Mr President, may I have the floor? This has to be over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u994	But I think it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u995	It's not over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u996	It doesn't end like that, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u997	Why shouldn't it end? So, what's to be done? Here, Mr. Loverder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u998	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council does so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary groups are not doing so. Please consult the Bureau to see what you are going to do with Mr Kasapidis. I ask him to withdraw, so we can move on. That's not right, Mr. Kasapidis. Since this morning we have said to hold another stop in the House. You'll have to make it up to me. You're helping those of you who are being blamed for this thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u999	Mr Kasapidis, I will tell you once again: if you wish, help the process. Otherwise, they have been recorded in the Minutes and from there on they will decide what will happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1000	The Bureau's initiative at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1001	Leave it now, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1002	Please, Mr. Xydakis. What will the Bureau say at the moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1003	You've called me a traitor ten times since 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1004	Who am I?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1005	SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1006	Ladies and gentlemen, do you know you're not soundin'? There's a turbulence right now and you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1007	By name we are and has individual responsibility for what everyone says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1008	Mr Triantafylides, please come, because this procedure can no longer be continued.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1009	Mr President, I would like to say one last thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1010	Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1011	Mr President, something very heavy was said this morning by Mrs Gara. I wrote it down. He said the New Democracy is working with Nazis. It was too heavy. It is now called something that also does not express the New Democracy's political speech on treason. The New Democracy is getting away from both. I think we can end this issue here. If we want to continue in the Ethics Committee, let us also see whether these expressions that we are Nazis or Nazis are accepted by Parliament. Let's see everything and spherical. However, I repeat, it does not help at this time any extreme positioning. The New Democracy is a party of the media and the media. We're a democratic party. Of course we are in complete contrast with SYRIZA in relation to the Skopje issue. From that point on, we are placed as our President has been, as I have put it this morning. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1012	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1013	Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1014	I do not accept any setbacks. I do not agree with the designation that was said this morning, but it was a political designation. It wasn't about the New Democracy. It was about the nazis. One of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1015	No, for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1016	Secondly, there is a direct attack here which this Parliament is insulting. And who's that? That the majority of the Greek Parliament, the MPs of SYRIZA and other MPs are traitors. This makes a big difference and we do not go too far. Do not clear phrases with hints and heavy characterizations. I heard New Democracy in her new location. I'm keeping what Mr. Hatzidakis said. I don't want to go on. The issue remains open for the Ethics Committee. Shame on him - and I mean that gentleman back there - who came to catch in his mouth and a hero, Paul Mela, with the shame he has in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1017	It's recorded, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1018	Mr President, one final comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1019	Here you go, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1020	I read from the Minutes what Mrs Gara said. Perhaps Mr Friend doesn't know and other SYRIZA colleagues don't know about it. She says Mrs Gara: "Your story is accompanied by patriots, junta partners, nazis and traitors." So in the Ethics Committee, if one goes, the other will go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1021	Not you, my lord!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1022	I don't talk like that, I won't talk like that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1023	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1024	Mr. Philly, you don't sound. There can't be a conversation like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1025	Papadopoulos from Kilkis was a dome MEP. Is that a lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1026	What do I care about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1027	Your story. Not you personally. Your party. Of course docs existed on your resignation. Is that a lie? Papadopoulos, Chaus Anton here at the ERE was. Do you forget?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1028	He's not Yannis now. Don't start covering such practices. We will either condemn the extremities or make such a distinction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1029	The debate is closed here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1030	We're not netting out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1031	Mr. Triantafylides, come to Stepma. It's over here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1032	Mr Kasapidis is accountable and should be referred to the Ethics Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1033	Do you justify Gara's conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1034	Mr. Philly, would you personally say Mrs. Gara's phrase?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1035	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1036	Then convict it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1037	Mr. Hatzidakis and Mr. Friend, please. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1038	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1039	No, that's the end of the conversation here. There has already been an observation three times by Mr Kasapidis. Mr. Kasapidis does not agree to withdraw. He's responsible and accountable to his people, and we'll see what happens next. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Come on, gentlemen, that's enough. A quarter of discussion is being held on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1040	This is happening professionally tonight. Occupational stress.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1041	Mr. Loverdo, please. Mr Triantafylides has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. We can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1042	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1043	You don't sound. It's gone up to your step-by-step colleague. Respect him for continuing the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1044	When it is known that the President of the Parliament, Nikos Voutsis, expressed unanimously and unanimously the Greek Parliament, condemned the dreadful out-of-courts sent by supposedly federations, who accused Greek MPs of the most treason and betrayal, and this received the assent and the condemnation of the symphony of the Parliament, no one would expect dangerous graphic voices of hysteria and irresponsible charge to be evacuated by Greek MPs of any party at the expense of their fellow Members. These may be said on some radio marginalized, where the snake's egg is incubated, where my humility, after the beating of the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Mr. Boutaris, spoke of an incestuous relationship between the right and the right. It was then that after statements from the camp and several other small and medium-sized executives from all over the country, where they said they did well to him... etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1045	Mr. Triantafylides, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1046	Mr. Xydakis, what you're doing isn't right. Do the parliamentary representatives now have to speak to each other? In other words, we have waited eight hours for the debate to end, in order to express five simple thoughts. Do we have the possibility of expressing them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1047	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1048	You're welcome. So no one would expect that. It is a disgraceful, appalling and appalling report, especially today, after the shock we suffered from the Barbarousse Declaration. You excruciated the monster and the monster stung, shocked. Wake up! What my humility said a month ago, after beating, was that the New Democracy is called upon to write an exercise of democracy and to distance itself from the extreme compact dark chamber of the far right and to understand that it must be involved in the pan-democratic front against fascism, Nazism, racism and intolerance. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I didn't mean to start like this, but beyond the make news and the misinformation, there is the text of the agreement. Whatever evil must be proved when it is implemented or what good we need to improve further, we have it in front of us. Find it after twenty-six years that you say and agree that the problem needs to be solved. Article 7. "About the first part of these terms means not only the region and the population of the northern region of the first part..." - which is our homeland Macedonia - "but also their characteristics as well as Greek culture, history, culture and heritage of this region from ancient times to present." Article 7(2) shall be put in a positive position, defines positively. Article 7(4) is the definition on the contrary: "The second part notes that its official language, Macedonian language, belongs to the group of any Slavic languages. The Parties note..." - both Parties - "... that the official language and other characteristics of the latter have nothing to do with" - a definition on the contrary - "... with ancient Greek culture, history, culture and heritage of the northern region of the first part". That is, they have nothing to do with Dion, with Pella, with Aeges, with Amphipolis, with the ancient Macedonian culture that is part of Greek culture. That is clear and concise. I've already reached five minutes. I have enough to say. I will go beyond the definition of patriotism and talk about multi-dimensional foreign policy, new patriotism, new national self-confidence without fear, bilateral and multilateral cooperation, which is the strategic plan on which we are moving, and I shall come to the scoppily - 'Macedonian', which is another shipwreck of previous governments and more specifically of the governments of New Democracy in the critical area of our national issues. The definition of the shipwreck is described with openness and clarity by the words of its own fatal protagonists, those who were called and have failed even at the critical moment to defend national laws and today, whether they are flying kite or selling madness, those who have been called back at the time - in 1990, '91, '92 - the counterfeiting nationalists of Skopje who have seized our history, our symbols, the ancient Macedonian culture, what we are now getting back with Article 7. You gave it all over time. Name, language, culture. We are trying to get it all back for Macedonia and Hellenism. I'm becoming specific. I have here six elements and Georgios Rally's book "In an ears of disobedience", which mentions and evaluates the presence of Mitsotakis - Samaras and the government of the one who handled and managed the scorpion at the time, when it was the time that Macedonian symposium of Skopje could be cut off, because it was when Germany was spurning to recognise Croatia and Slovenia. Then the Greek side could impose. That's not what my humility says. These are said by the transmigrants, they call them politicians, they call them politicians of your own party. What's he saying here? Forget the symbols, forget my humility. Two of Alexis Papachela's file. Mr Mitsotakis says: "Samaras, not from bad intention, of course, but from incompetence, made them wet." A little further, Samaras talks about Mitsotakis: "I don't hide you..." - Mitsotakis told Samaras, in the presence of others - "that the subject of the name is not a serious matter." And a little further, Samaras says: "I went abroad as Minister of Foreign Affairs and became a laugher." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You, as you yourself say, of incompetentness, are the ones who made them known, as you have said, for you who did not consider the name of Macedonia to be serious, as you have revealed to yourself, who became a laughter abroad, as you say, when the single Yugoslavia was dissolved, when we had the comparative diplomatic advantage within the EEC at the time, to impose a name that did not contain the term "Macedonia" then you gave the name of Macedonia, as you professed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1049	Mr. Triantafylides, please very much, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1050	I will only say one point, because I mentioned it and it is very important. From the book of the relentless Georgios Rallyllis, I note: "I do not think there is such a precedent as Foreign Ministers or Prime Ministers of any Greek government, that they have freed the country's right to appoint its representative to an international organisation when it was to be discussed with us on a national topic." It refers to the absence of a representative in the Baden-Württemberg Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1051	Mr. Triantafylides, we've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1052	So instead of feeling ashamed, you're squatting. Instead of apologizing, you're disembarking. Instead of repenting, strive to wrestling, pretending to be the lions of Nemea of new patriotism. But the people and citizens do not forget. The people don't forget what it means right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1053	Come on, Mr. Triantafylides, nine and a half minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1054	I would like to say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1055	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1056	I'll go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1057	But please hang up!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1058	I will conclude with the encouragement, at some point, between Greek-speaking barbarism and the absence of a real reason for arguments, that they should be raised and demonstrated, because you are weighed, measured and found incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1059	Now tell me where Mr. Tasoulas is going, how am I supposed to be able to cut him off before ten minutes? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1060	Don't ask, turn off a microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1061	Shall I start where? Let me start from New Democracy, is that what you're suggesting now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1062	Wherever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1063	But you know what's going on? With the 20 minutes we lost before, we're going to 2:30 now. We still have eight speakers. With seven minutes each means an hour and it's already 1.30. We said to close at 2:00, and now we'll close at 2:30. It's up to you what time we leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1064	Late night we'll do it at 4.30 pm.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1065	Mr Tassoula, you have the floor and I ask you, as far as you can, to be consistent in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1066	The motion of censure, which we have tabled for the government, aims to show that we have reached a climax in the impact of government policy on the people and the country in both economic and national terms. I understand that most of my fellow Members who spoke on the majority side, while at the same time committed themselves to the agreement, have not understood the gravity of the so-called Macedonian issue. The Macedonian issue did not start twenty-five years ago. The Macedonian issue has not even started since the Bucharest Treaty, after the second Balkan war. The Macedonian issue is part of the famous Eastern issue, it started from the depths of the 19th century and has been afflicting both our country and the Balkans. The Macedonian issue has come to light, due to pan-Slavism and communism. The Macedonian issue was the demand that the tsars and the Black Eagle and the Red Star tsars come out of the slavism in the Aegean Sea. It was the same target against our country. We had a desperate development following Russia's victory over Turkey in 1878. This hopeless development is due to the Treaty of Saint Stephen. This hopeless development is due to the Treaty of Saint Stefan in Istanbul, which created Bulgaria's great hegemony. Bulgaria was reappointed in 1878, seventy - thousand square kilometers. He took over what we call Greek Macedonia today, with the exception of western Macedonia. Thanks to the policy of the British Empire and Bismarck who did not want Russia to reach the Aegean, two months later in Berlin the Great Bulgaria and Macedonia returned to the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, to find it by the Greeks of the Balkan Wars in the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, fortunately, and to understand by the Treaty of Bucharest most of it. It is a complex issue, a complex issue, and we cannot understand it on the basis of the 2018 criteria, with which we are striving to interpret the behaviour of ECOFIN governments or governments in the 1990s. Each period has different needs. The recognition by Greece of the need for Greek-Yugoslavic friendship in the 1950s is due to the fact that due to the Cyprus problem, Greece acquired hostility with Turkey, due to the Cold War with Bulgaria and Albania and could not last in the 1950s for Greece to have hostility with Yugoslavia as well. So we decided with Yugoslavia, because it would be unbearable if we had Yugoslavia at our expense, to establish good diplomatic relations. There was then no separate state in Skopje under the name of Macedonia. It was a province of Tito-Yugoslavia and never, ever, ever from '54 to '60, Tito-Yugoslavia, Belgrade, did not speak of a Macedonian minority in Greece, because Tito's Yugoslavia had been retained and always at that time voted in favour of the Cyprus issue. Always to understand a paradox, I will tell you that Tito, when Greece installed the air defense system of the famous or famous "Timios John" missiles, did not protest and express its satisfaction because Yugoslavia wanted strong Greece on its backs. Strange things in connection with regimes, unplugged things in relation to seasons. And don't interpret '50 and '59 with the criteria and the hysteries and weaknesses and the insecurity of 2018. It's a different reality. Today, then, you have taken an issue that no one has ever solved. No one has ever solved it, because it has preferred to be dragged down rather than solved, say, the way you solve it and make three dramatic mistakes. One mistake has to do with the juncture. It is not appropriate that a country which is kneeled and economically economically and internationally prestigious - we are, unfortunately, kneeled - should try at the time when it is kneeled and has enormous needs to resolve serious questions in the long term, because they will be caught on the knees and exploited. When the British Empire decided to impose the solution of the triple rule on Cyprus by the McMillan Plan in 1958, we had the apostasy against the Karamanlis government to find him weak. That did not work and we went to prevent the McMillan plan and we reached the guaranteed independence. They always want to solve issues when countries are kneeled. A second mistake is the architecture of the project. The architecture of the project puts integration first and after the solution, while the right architecture is first the solution and then the integration then. The right architecture is not our arsenal - which is to join Europe and NATO and the solution for the enclosed state - we do not deliver it in advance in the face of promises. And the third mistake is the substance of the agreement, which maintains intact, as well as intactism and expansionism, and all these views that may arise, because this agreement is not concluded for five and six years. It's not a parking lot. It's a deal in the dictionary. And don't expect the agreement to be corrected to the UN Secretary-General or The Hague. We could make this deal with closed eyes ten, twenty, thirty years ago. We have preferred the loose end to such a bad agreement, which I repeat is a bad, unscrupulous, and in terms of its architecture and its context and substance. The motion of censure is an anemic hope, a lymphatic hope that Mr Kammens might not remember having sworn an oath to throw the Tsipra government down if he puts the word Macedonia to a solution. Mr. Kammenos will obviously not be sued tomorrow by the Ice Bay Attorney's office for perjury. Mr Kammenos and SYRIZA will make political decisions in the forthcoming elections. We will do everything we can to prevent this agreement, which is completely harmful to our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1067	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. Mr. Giannakides, you have the floor for seven minutes. After Mr. Giannakides, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, Mr. Kritsis, Mr. Kavvadas, Mr. Beyalas, Mr. Pallis and Mr. Vlassis have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1068	Thank you, Mr President. The New Democracy has tabled a motion of censure against the Government on the basis of Greece's agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the final and decisive resolution of a very important national issue that has been stirring up Greek diplomacy and the Greek society for over twenty-five years. An agreement which welcomed the entire international community and the political forces in Europe, with the exception of few exceptions, such as the current President of the neighbouring country and its former Prime Minister, who spoke about the humiliating defeat and unacceptable retreats, compared with what had been won in the past. Unfortunately, the New Democracy expresses the same position on the agreement. The negotiation took place in an international context, in which the term Macedonia was already included in the name of the neighbouring country, such as that used in international organisations and in all international fora, resulting from the binding interim agreement of 1995, according to which the name of the neighbour was the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. National duty and responsibility are not the possible referral of the solution to an vague future juncture. Such a choice would weaken the progressive forces that want a solution, paving the way back to the development of nationalist forces in the neighbouring country, forces attempting to confuse the history of Greece. Such a choice would strengthen the role of third parties at our northern border with immediate consequences for the security of our country and the overall stability of the wider region of the Balkans. Such a choice would not take advantage of this positive juncture for our country on the road to resolve the black hole in our modern diplomatic history. The agreement fully corresponds to the national line for a complex name with a geographical designation for the use of 'erga omnes', a position which the country has maintained for twenty years. It is worth stressing that accepting the use of 'erga omnes' is a great success for Greece, since it has not been accepted in the past as a basis for discussion either. This means that our neighbours will not only use the agreed name in their international relations, international organisations, international fora and international documents, but also within their own country. In addition, the government has succeeded in making the neighbor's obligation to proceed directly to a constitutional review, which is a huge victory for Greece, since it was not included in the national line, as it had been designed in recent years. But what were the real reasons why the New Democracy put forward a motion of censure? The current extreme attitude and rhetoric of the New Democracy does not stem from its real interest in the effective resolution of this major national issue. After all, the real blame for this impasse has emerged from history itself, and to a large extent they have been designated even by former Presidents of the New Democracy. The current extreme attitude of the New Democracy stems from the panic that holds its true leadership, due to the developments in a number of cases that currently employ the vast majority of Greek society, the Greek Parliament, the Committees of Inquiry, justice, but not the established media that support you and systematically attack the government, assumptions such as CEDEFOP, offshore, "NOVARTIS", the loans of parties and the media and many more. Already in 2015, the sole goal of the New Democracy, in which the Spring Politics and LAOS took place, was the overthrow of the SYRIZA Government and the regular return to power in every way and every cost not for the country's salvation and progress but for the return to past practice, which led us to destruction and the memorials. Initially, New Democracy invested in the left parentheses scenario, promoting not the national but the small-party interest by handing over a mined field to the SYRIZA Government with unacceptable commitments, aggregations of loose ends and open issues and with the funds of the country. In fact, it was so certain that the Civic Opposition for the left parentheses and its regular return to the rule of the country, which Mr Samaras never showed up at the delivery ceremony at the Maximos Concert Hall. The left parentheses plan not only failed, but immediately after the 2015 referendum New Democracy was led to a change of leadership, but until now has not changed something about the strategy and the right-wing turn that took place in the lead Samaras. Following the September 2015 elections, the expectations for overthrowing the country's government were based on the most extreme cycles of lenders, the failure to complete the assessments, the failure to achieve the goals, the derailment of the programme, the economic, social and political deadlock, the destruction and daily terrorisation of society. We all remember the attitude of Officer Opposition in particular during the second assessment, the secret appointments with the German Minister for Finance, the constant demand for a hard position for lenders to our country in exchange for a firm and repetitive position that the regulation of public debt does not matter, but the adoption and application of the most extreme demands of the International Monetary Fund. Of course no one can forget the inadmissibility of the New Republic by the mouth of its Vice-President for not completing the second assessment at any cost, provided that the Government of Alexis Tsipras is overturned. Today, following the resolution of the last prerequisites of the latest assessment and the visible exit from the time of the memoranda, in which the New Democracy and the PASOK led us, you have put your hopes of overthrowing the government in not resolving the most important national theme of our modern history. The only few months ago New Democracy's position on the issue of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for a complex name with a geographical definition for use against all, 'erga omnes', was forgotten overnight and day after day, the Civic Response is increasingly marginalized and removed from the likes of the European People's Party. We are not going to allow the inhabited patriots of the Spring Politics and LAOS to lure Greek society into dangerous logic of separation and the creation of new deadlocks. The internal problems of the new leadership of the New Democracy will not be burdened with Greek society and we will not allow them to affect the interests of the country and of the European family. Perhaps the adventures of Rahoi and Sarkozy are a picture of the near future, which scares quite a few of the blue components. In particular, the multicultural Thrace and its citizens, who, regardless of origin, colour and religion, first know Mr Samaras' policies either as Foreign Minister at the beginning of the 1990s or as President of Spring Policy after the overthrow of the Mitsotakis Government and recently as Prime Minister, will not be taken away from extreme right-wing logic and practices and will not allow extremes to repeat past crimes at the expense of this country. Not only will we vote against the motion of distrust but we will continue with even more courage and strength to fight for democracy, history, peaceful coexistence of the peoples, strengthening internal social cohesion, placing our country on a regulator in the Balkans and in Europe and on a pillar of stability in the sensitive region of the wider Eastern Mediterranean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1069	Thank you, Mr. Giannakides. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1070	Ladies and gentlemen, the time is yesterday. However, I feel the need and the obligation to start with what was unacceptable this morning. And I also feel the need to embody with as much power as I have with my own voice what we have lived here in the Greek Parliament, with the criminal call of the Golden Dawn MP in a military coup and murderous violence. The tolerance of Nazis and fascists is incomprehensible and unforgivable. It's been turning us back many decades. I do not want to forget, however, and we must not forget that the Golden Dawn, this Nazi motif, reaped by taking advantage of the miserable rhetoric of betrayal, the indignant rhetoric of indignation by others who used it, and which, unfortunately, was just heard by a colleague. As far as we are concerned, a number of such conditions have been repeated. He needs sobriety. That is why I do not want to stand up, ladies and gentlemen, at times when I myself have lived. I am sure that if the SYRIZA colleagues see the video today, they will not feel well. We have been called 'Cholacoglou', 'Germancholis' and 'prostitutes'. I will try to speak in this motion of censure without using heavy terms. I will not even say what the former President of the Coalition Mr Alavanos said today on the radio that this is a subjection agreement. In our opinion, this is not a subject-matter agreement. This is an agreement that has some positive points but many and serious negative points. Before entering the agreement, you will allow me to refer a little to the general point. When we talk in Parliament about the motion of censure, we are all talking about government action. We are discussing and going to see if the re-examination exists. There will, of course, be a statement and there will be no one, because in essence the far right you are ruling with, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, has said and fallen away so many times, particularly on the Macedonian question. So people don't make fun of themselves. The 'yes' to the government and 'no' to the motion of censure by those of the ANEL colleagues who vote tomorrow does not count because the people know that there will be no real statement tomorrow. Mr SYRIZA and Mr ANEL, you have long lost all democratic legitimacy and beyond this agreement. Because you were elected to exploit a vulgar trade of hope. You've sold deceitfully. After you said these delusions and didn't only sell them in January 2015, but you sold them in September 2015. You are doing the same today, talking about the clear exit from the memorials and about fair - supposedly - growth. You see, that Mr. Reggling is ruining your soup, and today he's talked to you again. It won't let you quiet down, say a nice story again. He insists that he disobey you, there's Regling. No, he says, by 2059 there will be control and continuous surveillance of our children and our grandchildren. With your health.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1071	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1072	Let go, Mr. Polakis, calm down. It hurts you very much, I know, but calm down. All you've accomplished is the violent targeting not only of the weak but of the middle class. Yesterday's debate in the House on 'blooded' - your terminology - surpluses that you bring, of EUR 57 billion by 2022, falling on the backs of pensioners, who have left them without an EKT, who have cut them off the main and supplementary pensions, the widows who lose all economic support, the unemployed young people who leave the country, the healthier forces of this place, the fighters, the farmers, the free professionals, the traders, the scientists, who are crushed under the unscrupulous burden of public taxes and contributions you have imposed. But that's what you want. You want a country forced into permanent economic and social misery. A country that the government will maintain dependent, impoverished and poor citizens. Ethnics in political dependence, populism and falsehood that you systematically cultivate in a centralist party state - "patterouli". There is no institutional counterweight to which you have not attacked in a treacherous and treacherous manner. In this effort you have chosen to have allies the far right ANELs. The people's right, too, to which you offer immunity, covering the great responsibilities of the period 2004-2009. Why don't you say something about that, ladies and gentlemen, at SYRIZA? And finally this window of opportunity to solve a timeless problem, and you see that micro-party, beneficial and challenging. Because so far what have you done? Mr. Kammenos when he was hiding and when he appeared to take off the spa and say "we do not vote" and Mr. Kotzias was going to secret diplomacy. There was no organised, coordinated situation where the political forces of this place could, in fact, agree on this important issue. Mr President, I will not go in ten minutes, but I want your tolerance for two minutes. But it is not that you have before you right now in the agreement from the left side of the political mirror to the right, that you have the people to you and you have created this because you have divided the world. You have a democratic and moral duty to stop playing and gambling with Macedonia. And because the historical truth has to be recorded, I must say here that the interim agreement between Andreas Papandreou was a great conquest and is based on that part of the agreement that we have and many of its positive aspects. It has allowed us to spend all these years - and the disgraceful Gruevski regime in the neighbouring country - and, indeed, we as a country have been integer. And now, with a baroque, I'd say, graciously remember your old times, you're recommending a deal. I will stand by the negative, because, as we have said, the complex name is a positive element. But from that point on, how did you think to sign or sign even, tomorrow, the signature, under a text that speaks of 'Macedonian citizenship' and 'Macedonian language'? What diplomatic or legal inspiration has prompted you to accept the absolute irrationality? What's that? First we accept Macedonian membership of NATO and then follow the referendum and the constitutional changes in the neighbouring country. How unpredictable can one have, which his counterparty unilaterally accepts, that he fulfils the contract conditions and that statement produces legal consequences arbitrarily and with the most important consequence, of course, the entry of the neighbour into NATO? Nor such conditions as these, ladies and gentlemen, are in a loft. How did you imagine that you might secure the elementary national interest through the legal salmonism of multiple abstract sects? Finally, what is your democratic sensitivity, when you are unresponsively seeking to tie a people with a text binding? Make a little bit of it. This motion of censure may also be an opportunity to do so. Gentlemen of the Couple and collaborating multi-collar collars, you who were so easy to speak and telling us traitors, it is time for you to confront history. It is time for personal and historical responsibility for each and every one. Greece and the generations that come will not forgive you. It's time to see the treaty again. Improve the agreement and not sign it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1073	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mr. Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1074	Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed almost all the speeches of this two-day day and have come to some conclusions, but I have also had some questions. The first conclusion is why it has become a motion of censure. The motion of censure was made - and that is why it happened - firstly because after the end of the fourth evaluation and the memorandum, the New Democracy had no record at all and had to find. The second reason why the motion of censure was made is that various members of the New Democracy, with loose ends with justice, saw it as an attempt to catch from their hair, even though they can throw the government down, considering their weak link as ANELs. The third reason was that, contrary to what Mr Mitsotakis said, he will not divide the Greeks to unite the Skopje, he actually divides the Greeks to unite his party. Because his party is now abducted by the Samara-Georgiadis and Sias team, it does not control it and it has made such a desperate effort from which it will obviously lose, because when something is not genuine, you have a very big problem. But I have some questions, too. One is the position of the New Democracy. You're organizing a rally tomorrow, the organizer is Mr. Cyranakis, it's your rally. Have you told the people who go there about 'North Macedonia' that you accept Macedonia by geographical determination? You haven't said that. One is that. Second tomorrow, when, as in previous rallys that took place, will the Golden Dawn en bloc appear, two thousand people, military walking, banners, flags with their leadership, how will you welcome them and how will you coexist with them, after what has happened today? Next question. From Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Voridis who is here, I understood that in a wicked way they said that once this agreement has been initialled and signed by Kotzias, from there you will normally run. So don't work the world. The next thing I would like to see - and I do not see anyone here who seems responsible for answering - was Mr Kumucaku's position that in 1993 for the Macedonian government the government fell and her turn came. I want to know in 1993 the New Democracy with whom was it? Were they with him calling out, "a bum, a traitor, a Samara" at the New Democracy gatherings, or were they with Mr. Samaras? You need to make this clear, because it is also about your history, and it is about how we can approach you, whether we talk seriously or whether you are a wing in the wind. The New Democracy since 1974, after which it has, in any case, been built by Karamanlis, with an attempt to become a European party. What we see forty years later is that New Democracy by a European party is turning into a party on the Balkan right. It promotes a civil war, a national genius from casinos in Gevgeli, a national genius with tax base in Bulgaria, a national genius of the trumpet and fantasy radios. This is your political narrative, as much as some of your officials are trying to do, such as Mr Tasoulus who made a very good speech, to give some content. That's it, you're mocking people. But because there is historical memory, however much you are trying to convince Greek society that history begins in 2015, historical memory exists. The historical memory associated with your resignation has led us to national disasters. We remember the way Ankara led to the Asia Minor Destruction, you were behind it. We remember in 1975 in Cyprus, Mr Voridis, for selling half of Cyprus to Turkey and we heard the Golden Dawn - you are a relative - who in the morning wanted a coup. Obviously to give half the Greek Macedonia to another country, because that is your tradition. To avoid any such tricks in the future, then, we must avoid and avoid the fraud of nationalism and the way in which we avoid the fraud of nationalism, is to have in mind what Solomon said that the nation must learn to consider what is true national. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1075	Thank you, Mr. Kritsi for the economy in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1076	Mr President, I just want ten seconds on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1077	There is no staff, but your name has been mentioned and you want to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1078	Staff shall consist of a misinterpretation. I have never said that the agreement produces legal consequences. I'm done here. I have said nothing about future commitments. I said it produces legal consequences...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1079	You're not saying that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1080	I repeat. It produces legal consequences, which inevitably create certain data. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1081	It's clear, Mr. Voridis. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1082	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a serious national issue, on the basis of the motion of censure we have tabled on an agreement which you have not dared, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to bring to Parliament and which you are preparing to sign with the neighbours a text with many unjustified national retreats. An agreement that you do not have the legitimacy to sign, because you do not have the support of your government partner. You have negotiated for yourself in secret and you are attempting to decide on a matter that concerns all Greeks, our culture, our national identity and our history. You are only giving what we refused for twenty-five years now. You validate the essence of the pervertism of our neighbours with the acceptance of the "Macedonian Ethnic" and "Macedonian language". You do not understand or rather deny ideologically to understand that Macedonian identity is the vehicle of alutism perhaps more than the state name. You have never understood that in this negotiation Greece is and remains in a position towards our neighbours, and this proves that despite the fact that a hundred and forty states have recognised the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as "Macedonia", what is crucial to the Skopje, it is how we will recognise them, with what nationality and with what language their way towards the international alliances to which they wish to join. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, unfortunately, every time your Chief Tsipras negotiates, we have bad news for the country. And the Greeks may have endured everything as far as the economy is concerned, but there will be no retreat to our national issues. Aren't the voices of the Greeks on the side of the country telling you not to sign this bad agreement? Because it's a bad deal, and we all know it in this Chamber. Give you an example so we don't get fooled. Is there anyone who doubts that the way the agreement is, in a few years' time Macedonia and Macedonia will only be matched by our neighbours and not by us? Does anyone doubt that in a few years, is there any possibility of Skopje raising claims? Ladies and gentlemen, the name of citizenship/citizenship in all states is always a derivative of the state name. The citizen of South Africa is a South African, Belgium's citizen regardless of whether he is nationalally Balkan or Flemish is Belgian in terms of nationality. Therefore, in the case of northern Macedonia as you wish it to be called, regardless of whether it is ethnicly Slavs or Albanians, it should be North-Macedonians in citizenship. Mr Zaev and Mr Dimitrov insisted on keeping the name Macedonians, because they just want to keep their national ideals alive, Macedonianism. Because Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias violated the international rule and instead of the name North-Macedonians, they accepted the term "Macedonian/citizen of northern Macedonia" which will in practice become "Macedonna". In other words, why, since they claim to eliminate the aluterism, did they validate its core? These issues are not an oriental bazaar, ladies and gentlemen, where you give me this to give you the other one. The names had to correspond exactly to the concepts. These are the elementary and critical national issues. But it turned out to be fine letters for both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Macedonians seek recognition from Greece of "Macedonian ethnicity" and achieve it on the one hand through the "Macedonian language" and on the other hand through citizenship. Because passports include citizenship rather than ethnicity. Now internationally they will see the state of "North Macedonia" and the citizens of "Macedonians". This is a toxic combination, which is transformed into a trap for the complex state name. Due to Vietnam, in the past, the name “North Macedonia” also refers to a fragmented nation. That's why the Greek side had to avoid it. As Mr Kotzias has done, the group that will make third parties is that there is a 'South Macedonia' with 'Macedonians'. Indirectly, but clearly, i.e. the ideology of the "dispersed Macedonian country" is confirmed. Mr. Tsipras, in your interview the other day at ERT you said that you would be judged by history. It escapes you that another is the arrogant leader and another the gifted leader, who with the people writes gold pages in the history of a place. But know you won't be the only one to be judged. We'll all be judged. Each of us has a responsibility towards the Greek people and history. And at this time in this historic moment for Greece the Greeks turn your back. You can't hear them. You have been able to cancel the deal and save what you can from your political blasphemy. You're a dangerous government. After you have committed the property of the country for a century and delivered it to the management of foreigners, since yesterday you just voted for a fourth memorandum with measures of 5.5 billion - and this time without the country getting money, but on the contrary it is obliged to ensure huge surpluses - you are now coming to give its soul. You need to leave on your own as early as it is. And tomorrow you have the opportunity to do so by voting against yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1083	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Mr. Beyalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1084	Ladies and gentlemen, the second day when we are discussing the proposal to distrust the New Democracy to our government. A motion of censure which said that the agreement was the drop in the glass. But there was another reasoning for this dangerous, destructive government, for that government that dismantled everything, that government that in three years' time did all the bad things that had not done all the previous political personnel. The drop was the deal, and that is why the motion of censure had to be made. Why didn't you just make the motion of censure for the deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1085	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1086	You didn't just do it for her. Your thinking was the rest of the year and you wrote that the drop was the one that left over the glass. However, we can see that two days now, all of your speakers are little referring to the previous ones. Obviously, you are only referring to this because you thought it was your last hopeless attempt, and you manage to convince, force the Annell colleagues on whether or not they will throw the government down. One thing is certain, however, that you too do not believe that this could happen. But the desperate one, and the drowned one in his hair, is caught. As a Western-Macedonian birth of the Grevenas from generation to generation - and here I would point out that my great-grandfather has left his soul and his bones in Thessaloniki in 1912 for the liberation of Macedonia and Thessaloniki - I cannot accept anyone referring to traitors and speaking of the last treason, people whose ancestors came much further after the Macedonian Strugglings. No, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. For this agreement to which the first signature comes, you tell us that we should vote first in Parliament and then sign it. But that is exactly what your policy stands for, because if we vote on it, nobody guarantees us, there is no guarantee that any articles of the agreement will be implemented. There is the basic point that the agreement says that the Constitution will be applied first, but also any other through the procedures that the neighbouring country will have, and then the Greek Parliament will be ratified. Ease and contradict this, of course, cannot be convincing to the Greek people. They ask me, as many of us ask. Does it not bother you that the Macedonian term exists in the name of the neighbouring country? I'll answer you clearly with my feelings and me and not just logic. Clearly, I'm annoyed. And it bothered me very much, when in 1991 when it was the critical period for the Macedonian term to be removed from the name of that state, it did not happen. Clearly, it bothered me, when the term Macedonia was again included in 1992, where this State - not from the interim but from 1991 - was recognized as the Republic of Macedonia, but also with the interim agreement which says the Republic of Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Because the former goes to its Yugoslav function and the name is the Republic of Macedonia. As it bothered me and bothered me, when in 1959 Constantine Karamanlis put his signature on a contract sanction. If I hadn't been born, I read it. As it bothered me and disturbed that in 1959 the then Minister of Foreign Affairs Evangelos Averov referred to the "Macedonian language" and I think it has been given in the Minutes. I don't have to give it to myself and repeat myself. As he bothered and disturbed me, when language recognition took place in 1977 and was recorded in the UN. You're saying it's not like that. And yet it is. Let me be thirteen then. And thirteen years old, I should have known the story whether I was seventeen or any other age. As it bothered me and disturbed when all these years and today, all the travel documents from the neighbouring country are entitled "Democracy of Macedonia", where the car plates of the neighbouring country coming to Thessaloniki, coming to western Macedonia, northern, central and eastern Macedonia, have the characteristics of MK, i.e. Macedonia. It bothered me and disturbed me that the trade tariffs between the two countries are referred to as the Republic of Macedonia. It bothered me and disturbed me, when the books of the Greek state, the Ministry of Education, which came out of the Organization for the Publications of Teaching Books, such as that of 1977, have the map and refer to Macedonia. I'm filing it in the Minutes because I don't know if it exists. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Beyalas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It bothered me and disturbed that in all the international sports and cultural events, our delegation was fighting and fighting about whether it would be the Republic of Macedonia or what would be called FYROM. All of this is the result of your own policies. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the things you have delivered to us and we are coming to an agreement today. A deal that each characterizes. I don't want to describe it. I don't want to be the expert. These two days I actually heard very well-documented views and historical reports from all the parties, from all the wings of the House, but they ended up with a different result. However, I will say the following as to whether it was good or bad. And I shall refer to the teachers of international law and Balkan studies. Mr Alivizatou says: 'The agreement is fundamental.' In favour of the agreement on the name of Skopje, the constitutionalist. "The New Democracy," he says, "is moving on the edge of the razor. It is difficult to find its pace to remain a European party, and at the same time not to support what the Tsipras Government does. But if they match the Kazinski and the Orban to extremist nationalism, then where are they being driven?’ Professor of the University of Macedonia, Yiannis Armamalas says: "Agreement with Skopje, in essence, ensures the demands on the Greek side for many years". He is an assistant professor of the Department of Balkan - Eastern Studies at the University of Macedonia. Kyrkos Doxiadis, Professor of Social Theory of the University of Athens, says: "The solution to the name that was finally agreed, Northern Macedonia, was the one that I always thought was the right one. So I am thinking of adopting it now," says the professor, "even in my public speech even if it has not yet been officially ratified". Antonis Liakos, the Emeritus Professor of Modern Greek History at the University of Athens, says: "This agreement is historic and ends a twenty-seven-year-old problem. If it goes well to the end, it will be one of the few achievements of Greek foreign policy with regard to national issues as important as the entry of Cyprus into the European Union." Professor Dimitris Christopoulos says: "I am satisfied with the agreement, now it is enough that the two governments show stability and coolness in the pressures they will take. It is unexpectedly good news that a bilateral problem that our country had, in my view, on its own responsibility, is under way to find a solution." He is a Professor of the Panteion University, Christopoulos and President of the International Human Rights Federation. Ladies and gentlemen, let go of hypocrisy. The country must go ahead with its neighbour, where the next period - and it will not be forgotten - will be justified in this government's efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1087	Thank you. The last speakers for tonight are Mr Pallis and Mr Vlasi. Mr. Pallie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1088	Thank you, Mr President. I see Mr. Voridis smiling. I imagine it was your omission, being a young man, that the word Macedonia remained in the books.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1089	Mr. Pallie, don't mention names, because we're going to start a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1090	No, I say it with a smile, because I think we've earned that, not to have personal reports. I was not disturbed and I am not bothered by much of the things that bother my colleague Mr. Beyala. I am extremely disturbed, however, to try to present the self-evident thing as an overrun here. Because the self-evident thing we have to do is sort things out, let's go down. First of all, we have a top parliamentary procedure, which is an honour for us to speak on a very important subject. Mr Voridis, I shall now refer to you. Listen a little bit. Don't talk to my colleague. Two - three of you have stayed in the Chamber, listen. Let's talk, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1091	Talk. Who's blocking you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1092	If it weren't for you, we wouldn't talk at all. You're the ones who invited us to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1093	Go on, Mr. Pallie, no one interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1094	We heard Mr Kumucako talking about diplomats. It is not only an active diplomacy to intervene in order to correct colleagues abroad and the orders given to diplomats are to intervene on this matter and correct those who make use of that name, which most countries have recognised in the world. For betrayals and so forth, I will not go any further. I think that what was written in the Minutes, from whom they said and to the tons that they spoke, we will see them along the way how they will evolve and it is not a matter that we should 'weigh'. We're not going to fall into your loop. We're not going to fall into Mr. Javarra's lobe for ethnicity. We will accept all the views he has put forward to us. It is the concept of self-determination. He said it right. As I can describe the correctness of Mr Tasoula's speech with the points he has made and his concerns. Other speakers such as Mr Barriots from the Democratic Independence would say that he made an honest speech. The question in the debate is this: One is the question of the neighbouring country. The other is the question of what Parliament is voting on in the motion of censure. For us, therefore, this proposal is an honour, and we have been given an opportunity to talk about such an important issue, in a process that national dignity comes against patriocapacy, in a process that realism is faced with turmoil, at a time when Prime Minister Tsipras and Foreign Minister Kotzias deliver policy lessons with 'p' capital. They exploit the juncture - because it is a factor - to remove problems that exist in the Balkans - and we all know the problems of the Balkans - anomalies of the past, issues that not only concern Greece and our northern neighbour but the whole future of the region. I wonder, then, about the policy of governance of Gruevski with the statuery, with the names, with the archaic buildings, the references to all this. To all those who call "Macedonia" our neighbour, who have recognized her under her constitutional name, did the idea come to anyone's mind that all of them with all that they do are about ancient Greek culture and all that and that they are their descendants? Are we kidding each other here? Did they ever combine those things with the jokes of Gruevski? Unfortunately, however, patriotocaust and nationalism and necessity, I would say, over the last hundred years in our region following the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, that nations - states, to become conscious, are not only on the Greek side. In all countries there is this. Screwdrivers with the sun of Vergina, guys. Do we accept all this stuff? So I think about how Macedonians - Greeks who have always been in Macedonia by the Pontius - Macedonians, by the Miracians - Macedonians and how they may be so worried about our Slav neighbours and not our Bulgarian friends. I do not understand why you are not concerned about Bulgaria's concerns at the moment about the solution that is being promoted with the neighbouring country and whether we want that country to be strong, stable and not to have other problems in our region. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we are all Greeks and secondly we are Aegean, Macedonians, Cretans. We're all proud to be in this country. This is our homeland. No one deprives us of this right and no one has the right to call himself more or less. As no one can deprive people of their right to self-determination. As I cannot tell the Cretans against my place in Aivali not to identify themselves as Cretans, as a result of the violent events of that time, of the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire. They took them from Crete and took them there. They also kept their tongues. I don't know there in northern Greece, in Greek Macedonia, the dopiola - not to call it a language - spoken in many villages, what do the locals call it? Is there a name for the dopillars or just "the natives"? And these locals are Greek, on the one hand? Many problems, therefore, from the debate and it is wrong to break the conversation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I hoped - and I will close here in order not to abuse time, a colleague has remained - that with the beginning of the debate and the intervention of my colleague Sis Anagnostopoulou, a historic speech in Parliament, could lead to much better results. Don't laugh, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1095	I'm not laughing at you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1096	But, unfortunately, at the time when you invited us here to defend this government that brings this agreement, while my colleague was speaking, you called us, were only five in the Chamber. I was hoping her speech would catch a place, too, but there was no one in here to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1097	Now there are four of us and you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1098	Now you're four.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1099	Mr. Pallie, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1100	Good night, then, with your darkness, with the past in Mr Samaras's policy of suing the Prime Minister, with this logic that you too believe that matching with the extreme right, when this story is closed with the courts, will bring you back. Plan and do damage to the place, do damage to the homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1101	Last speaker for tonight is Mr Blass. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when Mr Tsipras Prime Minister was elected in Greece, we thought that the consequences of this election would only be economic. And there were enough. Capital control, tax increase, reduction in wages and pensions, recession, poverty everywhere. Unfortunately, the consequences are not just left there. The damage is enormous in terms of our own society, our principles, values and traditions. Of course what a Prime Minister, the only leader - if you can describe him like this - from all over the European Union, who not only went to Fidel Castro's funeral - did well, since these are his beliefs - but dare - listen! - to compare Fidel Castro to our Theodoros Colokotronis. When the same man, the Prime Minister himself declares atheist - and he does well - but he has no problem with communication reasons to kiss a cross. When the genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor mentions it as a mere destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism. When trying to remove anything Christian from schools, such as the class of Religiouss, such as morning prayer. When he leaves his executives to refer to the Greek flag as a simple piece of cloth. When the government's priority is the cultivation of hemp and the assumption of children from homogeneous couples. Of course, when these days instead of being illuminated by the Vergina Sun, what else would you expect, when you support your homeland on such a national subject, you only light it up during gay pride. That's all I imagine is progressiveity against you. It's progressive, I know. So the man who said that Greece has no borders - and we see the consequences - when this man, the Prime Minister said that the hostage of the two Greek soldiers is a normal border event - four months is old people right now in Turkey - what could he say about Macedonia? What he said was just another loose end. Well, Mr Tsipras, Macedonia is not a loose end, it is a part of the country. And the agreement on the scout comes to fully confirm what we have seen since the first day of your governance. We saw that you were willing to sell everything in order to stay in your chairs. Mr. Tsipras said he would resign if he signed a memorandum. He signed two. Mr. Tsakalotos would resign if the tax had fallen. In his chair he sits and, of course, in order to get to Mr. Kammenos, who from Thessaloniki said: "We will be the guarantee that no Samaras, Venizelos or Tsipras will deal with the name of Macedonia", tomorrow, the signature of Mr. Kammenos in the agreement. Now, Mr. Tsipras calls Mr. Mitsotakis a gambler. The same who played the country in the dice in 2015. And, of course, the referendum that he made at that time, today refuses to do so for Macedonia. Obviously, it does not consider Macedonia to be important. And as much as you look back into the past and are looking to shift your responsibilities to others, you must not forget that all the previous ones have simply negotiated. They didn't sign anything. You go tomorrow and sign. Instead, Mr Tsipras, in his secret top diplomacy without informing the political world at all, without informing anyone, brings a harmful agreement on national interests with a large number of black points. In both the Greek and the English text nowhere does it appear that Greece can use Severna Macedonia, as, of course, once again Mr. Tsipras was only three days ago in his report, looking into the Greek people and lying again. 'erga omnes' is false, as the Skopje's obligation to implement an agreement is shifted to an uncertain future. The worst part is, however, that this agreement speaks of a so-called Macedonian ethnicity, a so-called Macedonian language for the northern neighbours, thus giggling the pervertism. At the same time - and this is even worse - we will have to pass from control to possible aquarium propaganda, the story our children are teaching in schools. Mercy! I'll tell you one of my own experiences. When a young boy asked me the other day what exactly the Skopje are using, I happened to hear one of your colleagues at a TV panel and I just strengthened the voice. And I say to him: 'Here's the argument. That's why I'm sorry. Unfortunately, you are the government, which, in three and a half years' time, managed to commit the public property for ninety-nine years, to sign two unnecessarily memoirs, to bring huge reductions in pension wages, to bring the capital controls, which still remain here, to sell out the name of Macedonia. What are you going to say, Mr. Tsipras, when you're called to fight history? That you delivered the country less than you received it? The sale of everything to stay in the chairs of your authority? Whatever you do, you will not succeed in altering the soul and the historical memory of the Greeks. You may have fooled them several times. But now everyone knows who they're dealing with. You blame us for conserving, because we honor the traditional values of our nation, because we honor our history, because we respect our religion, because we put our family above all. If we are conservative about all of this, Mr Ministers, then this designation is not reproachful but a falsification for all of us in the New Democracy. If for you being a patriot, it's a shame, it's an honor to us. Based on our love for our homeland, we will go to bring her to the place that she deserves, as our great party has done many times, this time with critical thought, with self-criticism, with more know-how, with more know-how and realism, words that you unfortunately don't know why to know that the Greeks are a proud people. They may forgive a lot, they may sometimes be lured and operated warmly, but they never forgive the one, who touches the pride and the fundamentals of their national identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1103	Thank you, Mr. Vlassi. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-15-S1-commons.u1104	With the consent of the House, 2.38' the sitting is closed for Saturday, June 16, 2018 at 9.30' on the subject of the House's work: Continuation of the debate and vote on the motion of censure against the government submitted by the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-fifth Members of the Parliamentary Group, according to articles 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
