ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 14-6-2018, the PLST minutes of its meeting of Thursday 14 June 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Provisions for the completion of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement - Medium-term Financial Strategy 2019-2022 and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Discussion on the motion of censure against the government submitted by the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and Chief of Staff, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-fifth Members of the Group of Parliament pursuant to Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This has become a joint agreement between all of Parliament's wings during the vote, so that we can be clear and that there is no adjournment at the time of the sitting. We explained it before. The Conference of Presidents, which took place a short time ago, also recognised the relevant text to enter the Minutes. I say this, so that we can be very specific about how they become typical. So we're going straight into the conversation. The debate will take place in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, in conjunction with Articles 91(5) and 96 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, I would suggest that the procedure followed should be as follows: The debate will begin with the speech of the two colleagues from the New Democracy of Constantine Tsiara and Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, appointed by their parliamentary group and signing the motion of censure. Speaking time is 15 minutes for everyone. The other speakers will be registered with the electronic system by the end of the speech of the first two speakers of the New Democracy and their speaking time will be seven minutes without the right to second language. When the electronic registration system is closed, the competent services will draw up a single list to which Members of the Co-population Group will alternate with the Members of the House, in order to respect the pro rata of the parliamentary power of the parties, representing in the circles of speakers, as follows: SYRIZA, NL, SYRIZA, Democratic Consortium, SYRIZA, SYRIZA, Golden Dawn, SYRIZA, New Democracy, KE, Independent Greeks, Potami, Union of Centres, Independent MP. This is the fifteenth that we have used in other cases. However, this will not be done on proposals from the parties as it was done, and after preconsenting how many cycles will be, but will result from the order in which you will be written and the list of speakers will be drawn up by the services with such a succession. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be as set out in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. The speaking time of the Prime Minister and of the Chief of Officerial Response will be twenty minutes and of the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups, i.e. the Democratic Association, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the JRC, the Independent Greeks, the River and the Central Association will be fifteen minutes. The ministers will take the floor for ten minutes. The Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will speak for up to ten minutes. If, however, a speech by the President of the Parliamentary Group is given in advance, his alternate will be confined to the time of dentology or tritology, that is to say, five plus three minutes, in accordance with Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents taken by a majority will be completed no later than 14 noon on the third day by roll-call vote, i.e. Saturday at 14.00 noon. Once the list of speakers has been exhausted earlier, the debate will be concluded by night - obviously late at night - on Friday 15 June 2018 by roll-call vote. This decision is taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, i.e. 50 and one votes, as defined in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. The second session, Friday 15 June 2018, will start at 9.30 p.m. The third session, Saturday 16 June 2018, will also begin at 9.30 p.m. I would like to make a clarification before I ask this House to approve the overall proposal that we have put forward. As far as I know, in consultation with the government, it will be a number of 15 ministers. It will not be like other times in the respective proposals in the programme statements, which were close to all the ministers. We have made it available to the Conference of Presidents - first of all, that there should be an economy in which the majority of Members of Parliament are present or those Members who want to speak, so that we can manage the time. I would also ask that there should be a great deal of rigour in time, because you have also seen from the previous procedure that colleagues have been wronged. They were forty colleagues who did not speak. The twenty of them could have spoken if we had better time. Don't blame each other. Does the House agree with this overall proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, the New Democracy objects to what you have presented as a proposal. We are mainly opposed to the end of the debate. You said earlier that the debate would definitely end on Saturday at noon. Mr President, I would like to remind you of the parliamentary tradition. With all the governments so far it is a three-day debate and the vote goes at midnight on the third day. If you go to your motion of censure, by SYRIZA, in 2013 against the Samara government, it started Friday and ended Sunday at midnight. We can't figure out why this study. It is not just the mistake of the right of opposition. It is the highest right for opposition under parliamentary control to table a motion of censure. But at the same time we wonder what the government is afraid of. Is she afraid of the House? Is he afraid of talking in this House, or is it not to hide behind our fingers, is the government's majority afraid, as symposiums have been held on Saturday? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, I think that the practice of the government majority is appalling to the people but also arrogant at the same time. I think that at least at the last moment the government's majority, the government, should be removed from the situation and should show votes of democratic sensitivity. It is a duty to the House and to the people to have this debate properly, in accordance with the traditions of the Greek Parliament, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u5	Good. We'll hear Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I do not want to get far. However, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have been here since Monday, and we have had a lot of discussions this week. However, Mr President, many times when the Bureau members were pressed from time to time, addressed speakers, parliamentary representatives and told them that 'because you are talking a little more or because you are taking the floor, in response to a Minister, you are directed against your listed colleagues and they too want to speak'. On matters relating to a motion of censure or confidence, that is, concerning the overall governmental project, it is your duty to give room to every point of view that it wants to be expressed, so that it does not turn after the pressures that the Bureau receives from one Member against the other. I would therefore ask you to change your proposal to this House so that we can vote together. We did not agree with the Conference of Presidents. Mr. Kegeroglu has informed me. I would ask you, however, not to have procedural disagreements on such a serious issue. You can give space, give time and this will be for the benefit of the overall debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Michaloliacos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, in addition to the formality of the case, which requires a three-day procedure and the end of the weekend, there is also the political substance of the matter. If you are not afraid of this square outside, which you once said you would make it Tahrir Square, then the procedure to finish Saturday at 12 o'clock at night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u9	I have heard three points of view, converging entirely on this matter. Who else wants the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u10	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u11	You have the floor, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u12	Regardless of the attempts of the motion of censure - distrust by the New Democracy and the toys of the rest of the parties, and as regards the debate on how to organise and all of this, we would like to raise the following question: First of all, we must follow the well-founded previous debates that have been held on similar occasions, where after the first two rapporteurs from the party that table the motion of censure, there is a circle, the first circle of speakers, which is one of each party, which has more time to express the party's views in full. And not to enter seven-minute circles, like you said, of the fifteen speakers. We therefore consider that this first cycle should be followed, namely, by the representative of SYRIZA, the Democratic Alliance and the other parties with fifteen minutes of speaking time, so that they can report the party's assessment of the motion of censure in full and that this possibility should not be restricted. And then the circles will follow, based on the ratio you have said, of the speakers who will be written by the electronic recording system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u13	What about the ending, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u14	We are not going to go into these issues now. We want there to be a year. After all, as a party, we will not be involved in this game of disorientation. From there, arrange for you to arrange better time. What we are interested in is that the rapporteurs of the parties should be able to present their views as a whole and that they should be able to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue raised by Mr Karathanasopoulos, since the parliamentary representatives, who will have exactly this time, may be left behind, will also speak. It was not put to the Conference of Presidents. Let's check it out. I have no special opposition to this thing. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, to confirm that in the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA towards the Government of New Democracy and PASOK, this procedure had been followed. Following the first two speakers from SYRIZA, there was a first-ever cycle of eight MPs who were able and overall expressed the party's views. So I say we follow this process at least for the priority rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u17	There is no objection to that. I would like to refer to the rest, to the views which have been heard. It is clear that there will be simpler in this debate. And that's how it has to be. The relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure says that it will be debated for up to three days. So there is no mood or - I think - about the extent to which this debate can be held. As far as the hours that this debate can take place, it could have been up to 1 00' or 2.00' at midnight and today and tomorrow. It's not a matter. The hours discussed by the House will not be defined by how each party, if any, has the corresponding mobilisations or anything else. We have the comfort and the opportunity to give sufficient speaking time to all the speakers, whom the House itself will decide by a majority. Nobody's gonna be excluded. But I said something and I said it in a good mood. I see that you were prepared here to raise this issue and I will raise it in the Chamber, because I have spoken differently at the Conference of Presidents. I told you that I had consulted the government instead of the thirty-five ministers or Deputy Ministers or State Secretarys, who usually averaged all these debates that you referred to, either on the part of this government - I mean programme statements - or from the past government - to be twelve, thirteen and fifteen ministers in the context of a more general economy in the debate. There was also a very good mood - and I personally charge this proposal - because a number of colleagues from all the parties - and I will certainly not say a name - recommended it to me because it is Saturday afternoon that they can go on board or by plane or by any other means in their regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u18	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u19	You're very welcome. On this issue - it is a procedural issue that we are discussing - do not be so absolute. Okay? The last thing that this government and this seat fears is mass mobilisation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because you know what? There is an advantage, there is a prerequisite, there is a tradition, and there is a route, because we have been involved for many years and have not seen them either behind the windows or - let's say - from outside. [[Noise in the Chamber]] So you're very welcome. Objections...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u20	Tahrir Square...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u21	You're very welcome, Mr. Michaloliaco. I listened very carefully. The objections to mass mobilisation, which will start tomorrow with a speaker from Mr Patulis, will be made tomorrow, on Friday. I didn't even know about Saturday. If he's convening a party for the Sabbath, I didn't know. That is why I am telling you that the proposal was totally well-meaning. Tomorrow, then, there will be a demonstration. Will it continue on Saturday? I don't even know that. Let's continue on Saturday. There are too many such events. It has nothing to do with the proposal we make about the demonstrations. But in some respects they want to set up such a communal controversy. It is no accident that a representative of your party - I am directly, Mr President - went to the parliamentary editors an hour before the Conference of Presidents to report this matter. They said they know that the President of the House is thinking about Saturday afternoon, because they are afraid - if possible! - the demonstrations. I would therefore ask you to initiate the procedure. The Chamber itself will give the trawl, we will know at noon how the process is going and how to go. Of course, if there is no restraint on either side - I mean the number of people, colleagues who will speak - I cannot guarantee that there will be the same restraint, as I would think there should be from the government. So you realise that there can be a universal debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u22	Aren't we going to have a right to talk? You're talking about restraint.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Kedicoglou, that's not what I mean. Excuse me. I mean that in every parliamentary group for one, not limited, a large number of its Members, there can be consultation on these matters. That's what this is about. Nothing else. You don't want it. We will begin, as we will begin, with the process we have said and move on. No one's going to limit anyone. We'll be right here. The working hours procedure should be strict, I mean the conditions to be spoken by colleagues. We will be going today by one o'clock at night to see how much and who will be exhausted in the debate. And we'll proceed tomorrow comfortably from 9:30 in the morning. There's no matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u25	As for the Tahrir Squares, etc. I heard before, come on! There were bloody incidents, regimes changed. Don't come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u26	You were talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u27	"You" is relevant. You know where you're talking. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, this is a motion of censure to exercise the right of opposition. The Government is entitled to respect or not to respect itself. He is not entitled to disrespect the opposition and the parliament. Members must all be at ease of time. There is the Constitution, there is the Rules of Parliament, there is the parliamentary custom, the parliamentary tradition. Always the debate in this House, since post-Civilization, on a motion of censure lasted three days and ended at midnight of the last day. That is how it happened when you tabled proposals of distrust. We call for our own motion of censure to be applied precisely what has been applied to your own motion of censure. Is it too much, Mr. President? Is it unfair? Is it extreme? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And something for the government. I really do not understand this embarrassment, this fear, this tendency to limit speaking time. I have heard the Prime Minister say before that he is proud of his economic policy, saying that he is proud of his agreement with Skopje. Hey, since you're proud, give yourself even time to advertise your policy. But, obviously, you don't believe what you're saying either. You have lost the confidence of the people, but you have lost your confidence, obviously. That's all you mean. I am referring to the governmental majority. I hope that, once again, it will be respected for the New Democracy, what has been observed by the New Democracy when it was majority in SYRIZA's motion of censure. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I think that the planned for up to three days, since we are sitting on Thursday, Friday by Saturday night, is covered and I think that every colleague who wants to speak and put himself on the record will have something to say. As far as we're concerned, there's a few voices...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u31	Do you agree? As long as it goes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u32	Not until Saturday is fine. Today's Thursday. As regards the institutions that Mr Hatzidakis has said, let the institutions first convene his colleagues, Mr Samaras and Mr Vorides, who want to change the Constitution and give other responsibilities to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u34	No, Mr. Loverdos, it doesn't make any sense. We'll move on like we said. You say the same thing anyway. We shall proceed as you have said, there is no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u35	No, Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u36	You want the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, we have tabled a proposal very mildly. I am asking for the floor now - and thank you for giving it to me - for something you have said, which I consider to be outside the circle of your responsibilities and the decency with which you are carrying out your duties. Can you say that after being proposed by the opposition this way of holding the debate, will you unleash Ministers and State Secretarys? What are you? You're not a government representative. You're the President of the House. The government will do what he thinks. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please don't start it like this. We must stop here, tell us what the process is and move on. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u38	Well, because you do not understand and forgive me very much, Mr Loverdos, while the New Democracy colleagues normally understood, I told you that this proposal had inside it and that it was heard at the Conference of Presidents that many ministers usually speak in such discussions and not Members speak - a restraint and government interventions. That's what this is about. I repeat, after consulting the government, I said this to the Conference of Presidents. You were a while ago. It is clear that, depending on the economy of the whole debate, every political force and the government will perform their duties within the limits of time. There's no problem. That is what this is all about. He's obviously retiring. It's not retiring? Am I going to withdraw it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u39	Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Georgiadis, what do you have to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u41	On a point of order, Mr President, I too would like to see it. Thank you. I do not know how the previous proposal was made. We are young in Parliament as a Centro Association. I don't know how long it was. Surely we should see what Mr Karathanasopoulos said, having the reasonable time for the fifteen minutes for the rapporteurs to discuss, list the proposals and the position of the party. I'm sure we all have to talk, but we have to respect the services and the people who work here in Parliament, about how long and what time they'll be working, because I'll remind you that some are from 9 a.m. again in the morning and we can't keep them until 1 a.m. or 3 a.m. after midnight, because there's another danger after. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Why are you yelling, gentlemen? What was wrong with me? So you don't want people working here to have a normal hours driving and going home safely? And the same people will come 9.30 in the morning? [[Noise in the Chamber]] I don't know. I say it as a human because I have received complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u42	Very well. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u43	And I'm saying it's because you report for 1,000 minutes and 2.00 hours after midnight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u44	That's where we're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u45	Here we are, but let's see with the people if they're in a position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u46	That's normal. That's where we're going. And we will go there with speakers who will speak and have not spoken yesterday and the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u48	Come on, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, we are going to make a new Eastern or a new Macedonian issue and I think it does not honour the House. Mr Xydakis, earlier, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, I believe, said to you democratic sensitivity: 'Let's give the time to colleagues and let's move on until afternoon'. Mr President, colleagues will be here. I have the impression that there will be a great deal of interest. The whole Greek society has its eyes on this. Colleagues will be written. They must have all the comfort of talking. What is the problem, in other words, on Saturday night, that the meeting should be held normally, as was the case since 1974? Mr. Xydakis suggests that as a representative of the majority...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u50	That's not what I suggested. Don't use me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, you are not used to us not to be sensitive to this House. We all know each other very well here. Let the debate be closed here. It is more than reasonable to claim the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u52	Besides, it can be your first success this debate, if I agree now to go to Saturday night. Isn't that right? It's very important. But today, we'll go by 1.30. There's no objection. Thank you very much. Please very much the first rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u53	What's your decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u54	Okay, there's no question. Does the House agree with the overall proposal as it has been formulated, namely, that we are going to take comfort - there is no question - until Saturday night?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u55	Like this. Since, of course, it's over earlier, we can interrupt a few hours and come back on Saturday night. That's not what you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u56	This irony doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u57	We've come to an understanding. Please take the floor for 15 minutes. You will allow me, as far as I am concerned, to hold on to the Bureau, because then I cannot intervene. The record has begun. He'll be up to the first two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the political responsibility of the government in question is a monitoring of the general competence conferred on it by the Constitution. To decide and direct the general policy of the country and on the basis of the Constitution, this political responsibility of the government in question is collective. It's collective for the entire Ministerial Council, but it's not impersonal. It shall be divided on the one hand into the person of the Prime Minister himself responsible for forming his Government. It is at the same time shared among parties that support the government by giving a vote of confidence. And finally it divides the Members themselves, who support a government and its Prime Minister. However, ladies and gentlemen, although the constitutional order allows us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u59	Please be quiet. Excuse me, Mr. Chiara, just a minute. I'll take your time off, no matter what.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u61	Watch out. If there is agreement between the Parliamentary Groups and the Parliamentary Representatives, there will also be a proposal from Mr Karathanassopoulos - there is no objection - not for fifteen minutes, but also from the Parliamentary Representatives for ten - twelve minutes, so that a series of eight and then those who are written can begin. But you will agree, because we hadn't said so at the Conference. Go on, Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u62	However, ladies and gentlemen, although our constitutional parliamentary system allows the motion of censure to be shared in the face of a minister, do not deceive yourself. The vote of confidence is provided to a government entirely and, of course, without an asterisk. Trust in the government is not a bad card, and it certainly cannot be when it comes to those political choices that define the future and concern the history of our country. I say all of these, ladies and gentlemen, in response to an argument that does not seem to be serious, that the adhesive substance of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict is allegedly 'the effort to get the country out of the comitology and the memoranda'. Just two hours ago, you voted for another memorandum, the second on your term of office, and you put the country in commission for many more years. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you are responsible for the whole of government policy, policy and history, because this is where things have arrived, government partners with limited responsibility and government partners with reduced responsibility obviously do not exist. Don't try to sell that story again. It is not going anywhere, much more when this so-called sub-cooperation is not recorded anywhere. Individual government cooperation agreement between SYRIZA and ANEL is nowhere. The only thing that exists is the unconditional vote you have made in the government's programme statements. Of course, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, everything I have said about a normal government, in a normal parliament, when a normal majority is expressed, because since 2015, and since the first day of the creation of this prestigious majority, everything that I have said has ceased to apply. Since the day after this Parliament was formed, after the SYRIZA and ANEL ministers were tightly tied to the chairs of their ministries, immediately after they started the symposiums, with the smallest of the government partners - by accident, I see no one here among its MPs - to withdraw their confidence in the government and, where appropriate, his confidence in the government, starting with bills such as hemp, the cohabitation pact, the Religious in schools, the assumption of gay couples, the gender identity bill. ANEL and Mr. Kammenos remained in their chairs with the votes of others, those who once called them traitors and germans. I say that to remember. But they arrived at the epitome of political opportunism and arrogantism to the greatest political hypocrisy in the matter of the agreement on the name of the state of Skopje, with Mr Kammenos denounced with a great deal of patriotism what Mr Kotzias and his Skopje counterpart were working with, and then with a lot of political courage he did not hesitate under Maximos's neranzia, to confirm his confidence in him who had just a few minutes ago denounced. All this dishonesty towards the citizens you have the political courage to call it honest cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a word that accurately describes this government, that word is 'approximately'. Approximately left-wing, about democratic, about government. Some democratic, because democratic government with a fourth memorandum that goes beyond the time of the constitutional ending of this government, is obviously not. Around the left, because the left government with Pano Kammenos, ladies and gentlemen, once again cannot. And above all, almost government because normal government is coming into critical negotiations with two lines and ruling with two different majorities. But here we do not have an approximate agreement with Skopje - let us make this clear - like the honourable Minister of Mrs Ahtsoglou who signs pension reductions, but does not know - it is supposed to be - whether they are to be implemented. Mr. Kotzias has agreed with the Skopje Minister for Foreign Affairs a normal agreement, which, regardless of when it will be ratified by the Greek Parliament, produces legal effects directly with its signature. And in this agreement I am not addressing the SYRIZA's gentlemen and ladies who have been proclaiming their position for the name "Macedonia" since 2008. Moreover, there are many, the Minister of Finance, the Vice-President of Parliament, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, many prominent officials who said that "we do not care if they are going to be called Macedonia" - but to the fellow SYRIZA Members from northern Greece and to the fellow Members of the Independent Greeks who are supposed to have red lines. In this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, all the red lines are being violated. ‘Erga omnes’. Is there really erga omnes in this deal? It is impressive that the government has made an unheard of retreat, not even specifying the maximum time for fulfilling the obligations of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In particular, Article 1(10) provides that official documents intended for international use will be changed within five years, while the change in documents intended for internal use is in fact linked to the evolution of the accession process of that country in the European Union. In other words, it moves to an uncertain, distant future, as was, of course, sought from the outset. Also in Article 1(3)(e) concerning abbreviations of the name used on the Internet, commercial uses, etc. the present acronyms of the country. In addition, in Article 1(3)i, it shall be shifted for the future and the settlement of trade names and names. The transfer of the obligations of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to implement the Agreement in an uncertain future, as well as the concession of the use of the current codes, makes the notorious ‘erga omnes’ a letter. Let's go to another chapter, that of aluterism. Really, through this agreement, all of this is withdrawn, which we were supposed to support and should not exist, expressing the release of the neighbouring country? Ladies and gentlemen, the nationalism of the neighbouring country finds, with the agreement you have presented, the most appropriate ground for development. This is primarily because of the large and completely unjustified retreat of the government to grant the use of the surname "Macedonian" for the ethnic and what language. This is the first time, recognized by Greece as a so-called Macedonian ethnicity and so-called Macedonian language. This development is unacceptable because the recognition of Macedonian language and ethnicity is, as we all know, the root of scepticism. The extremist elements of our neighbouring country, now also having the self-determination of "Macedonians", will also be legalised against Greece to claim in the future that Macedonian nation is expanding beyond their own borders. For when the citizens of a state are called "Macedonians" and their country "North Macedonia", it is inviolable to conclude that there is another Macedonia, obviously the "South" in which other Macedonians are inhabited, who are under the sovereignty of another state. Therefore, instead of alleviating the Skopje chaining, the Tsipras - Kammenos agreement, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, is being strengthened. The official recognition of Macedonian ethnicity is a major Greek retreat, which not only offers a legal basis for scepticism, but actually strengthens it. How problematic and wrong the assignment of the Macedonian nation is also confirmed by the fact that Bulgaria, although we all know that it was one of the first to recognise the neighbouring country under their constitutional name, the Republic of Macedonia, has never recognised Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian language, and this is because it considered the Skopje as part of the wider Bulgarian nation with their own language as a Bulgarian dialect. This also explains yesterday's announcement by the Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which called on Greece and Skopje to deny that the agreement will not be interpreted as a basis for future changes to the existing borders or for claims towards neighbouring states in terms of language, culture, history and identity. Finally, the diplomatic aim of Mr Kotzia was to disconnect the skepticism of ancient Macedonia from the acceptance of the first proposal, the name "Macedonia of Iliden", that is to say, the epitome of Macedonia's end-19th century, which was manifested by the motto "Macedonia in Macedonia" because it is recalled that, when the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia became part of the single Yugoslavia, the former promoted the political existence of the Macedonian nation, part of which is living under Greek sovereignty. That is why it was absolutely unacceptable that the proposal from the Skopje, which the government originally accepted, had also been announced by Prime Minister Tsipras, who named Macedonia as "Iliden's Macedonia", because, in reality, there were objectives that, unfortunately, the current agreement does not neutralise. But what is completely unheard of and concealed in the last few hours is the following: in accordance with Article 8(5), a multidisciplinary committee will be set up to examine how the history of both countries can be taught in order to eliminate the altruistic references. In other words, this committee will not only consider how to teach the history of Skopje, but also of Greece. In simple terms, the government supported by the co-population MPs, the Tsipras - Kammenos government, with this article, accepts that Greece should also be controlled for possible aeronautic propaganda in the history taught by our children in schools. Ladies and gentlemen, in a dreadful recital of outrage and river expressions by the President of the Independent Greeks last September, did we hear Mr Kammenos develop a plausible booklet with the rhetoric question: 'Japa man or paid veil'? You know, it's very common in life, rhetorical questions returning and avengeing. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you are certainly not here to listen, I understand the difficulty - because, as you can see, life has arrived here, where free guys no longer pass. And you who are not here and are perhaps concerned at the moment, are calling on you to decide today your role and to decide whether to keep your commitment or whether to take up the role of Mr Tsipras' willingness to win a few more months of parliamentary or government service. We do not deceive ourselves that the disparity between the government's choices and the priorities of the parliamentary majority will be demonstrated from the process that we are starting today. After all, the disharmony between society's choices and SYRIZA's choices will very soon be revealed by the Greek people. This time you won't be able to hide behind the party lines. All, ladies and gentlemen, you will reveal one - one in front of the Greek people, because now there is no collective responsibility behind which you can hide the personal responsibility, which you are bringing from your role as MPs, against our history. It is obvious that those who are voting against the motion of censure will, in fact, enable the government to sign an agreement which - unfortunately - does not serve our national interests and create many problems in the future for our country. In fact, you have your responsibility to validate the invincible, I would say to you, an agreement, which has no space in this Greek Parliament at this particular time. For all these reasons, the New Democracy has tabled this motion of censure. Mr Mitsotakis, President-in-Office of the Council. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party, as well as the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, must take on the responsibility of each of us for its role towards society, against history, against homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students and eight school attendants from the 7th Municipal School of Chania and the 1st Special Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. The history of moments shall never be commemorated in a celebratory manner, especially in a Parliament. He feels it and takes it, on the basis of his course, on the basis of his conscience, based on his knowledge, based on his payments. Those who do not realize the history of this sitting, then they really do not deserve to be called Members of the Greek Parliament who understand the historical continuity and who accept the sensitivity and mind of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u65	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u66	It is historic that this motion of censure, which has been made for just one reason, on a very large national issue, which has indeed been afflicting the country for decades. This will be a useful debate, which will take place for two reasons. One reason is that this unacceptable agreement should be dismantled, because, unfortunately, this possibility was not given to us by the government earlier, the Prime Minister did not give it to us earlier, he did not come to the House to have this debate and to have this agreement approved or not. The other reason is for each of the Members here to take responsibility for their conscience and history to support this agreement or not. The vote of Members on Saturday against the motion of censure opens the way for the press. The vote in favour of the motion of censure annulls this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u67	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u68	Each Member is placed and actually signatories with Mr Kotzias on Sunday this agreement or prevents him from going and signing it. We're not hiding anymore! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] No one will be able to say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u69	...threatening...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Dritsa, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u71	Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u72	Here we go!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Dritsa, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u74	We'll see you all on Saturday. All Saturday!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u75	Excuse me, Mr. Georganta. Mr. Dritsa, calm down, please. The motion of censure is precisely so that the government falls on Saturday and is not signed on Sunday. Nobody hid that. Why are you uprising? I'm serious! That's the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u76	The President of the New Democracy asked for the agreement to come to the House to be ratified before going to the Prespes. The government refused that! We asked for it! We only asked for the deal to come here! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We did not intend to make a motion of censure. We did it because it's the only means you left us. You left us no more chance. On Saturday the headlights will fall on each of the MPs. No one could say 'I didn't know', 'I didn't know', 'I didn't understand'. Anyone who votes against the motion of censure, is voting in favour and signing the agreement. Why are colleagues doing this? Anyone who believes that it is a useful and good deal can come out here, go up and explain his vote and vote "against" the motion of censure on Saturday. But to sign, on Sunday, to create a definite commitment for the country, to commit the country and to hide behind the fact that for a vote it did not come to Parliament and say 'when it comes, then we will see how we place it', it is hypocrisy! We'll all be placed on Saturday, whoever wants or whoever doesn't want this deal. There's no other choice for either of us. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Or it is a good deal and let anyone who wants to support it and actually vote for it or not. I'll say one more thing. There is neither the 'present' nor the absence from the Chamber. From history, you're not hiding. Everyone's responsibility here is against history. It is a trend that will affect the next generations. There is no'representatives' nor is there any absence from Parliament. All Saturdays will say 'yes' or 'no'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I address the Members of Northern Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u77	Everybody!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u78	There's no north of Greece here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u79	I address the Members of Parliament especially to Northern Greece for one more reason. I'll call him, and the North Elders will understand him. We all live near the border well know that all these years we have called our neighbours Skopje as Skopje. Since when do we call them Macedonians? Do you want us to call them Macedonians? Snipers, we've been calling them a life. This is the historical memory of all the inhabitants of the prefectures of northern Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You now want to give them ethnic Macedonian. You want to give them the language of Macedonian. I am addressing my fellow Members of Northern Greece. What I'm saying is very well known by Theodore Parastatides, and Mark Bolaris, and George Lazarides. They know everything. We have never called the Macedonians 'Macedonians'. We've always told them "Scopian". We never admitted the existence of a Macedonian language. But let me tell you, what's the paradox of everything? The nonexistence of the Macedonian language admits it the same text of the agreement. We shall call it 'Macedonian', with the footnote that 'is rooted in Slavics'. But then why call it "Macedonian"? Somebody answer me: why call it "Macedonian"? The agreement itself admits that it has slavic roots. Why would we call it "Macedonian"? What's that supposed to be? It is very simple. Some of you, you've made up your mind to this development. The government and the Prime Minister were indifferent to the world that came out on the streets. He disproved of Parliament. He mentioned and described as a “teroclicular crowd” or as a “neutral right-wing crowd” all those who filled the squares. He didn't think, he didn't think the people always had the sensor. You can't go to that sensory counter. And of course, you can never pretend to be someone else and do other things. Even in the first announcement of the agreement, which he mentioned is false, on the basis of the agreement itself, as we saw it subsequently. But is it possible for the Prime Minister of the country to come out and to refer to evidence that is not in the agreement itself? We know very well that all the conditions we have set ourselves, do not exist and do not exist. And we're trying to understand the feasibility of this rush, the feasibility of this choice. Do you feel that there were no pressures before on the Greek governments? Do you feel that the external factors, which often want to intervene in our country, have not tried to do so before? And can I tell you something? Theoretically, 2008 was a good juncture. Do you know why it was a good time? Because there was a genuine negotiation of the same things in Bucharest, without the world in the squares, without the pressure of the world. And you know, why wasn't the world in the squares? Because he had confidence in the New Democracy and the government of Kostas Karamanlis! That's why the world wasn't in the squares in 2008! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that government has succeeded what you have done today so easily. It achieved a unanimous decision that, if no name is solved, we have no entry of our neighbours into NATO. Now, the door opens on Sunday. The NATO door opens on Sunday, no one can shut it down. The fait accomplices are created. The country is bound by the signature of Sunday. That must be understood. Validation of the agreement when it is done, if ever, has other consequences. The country's commitment is on Sunday. Ladies and gentlemen, come and defend the agreement. Come and answer the school children for the fact that what they have learned about history will be reviewed by a committee that will now be done. Because basically, we agree that there are anti-corrosion elements in our history books and our history books must also be changed. But only accepting such an event is the greatest defeat I can imagine for a Greek government. Did we accept the renegotiation of our story? Do you understand? What Greek school book is there such a ransom element? Let one of you tell me, let me see it, let me figure it out. Did you accept the renegotiation of our history, as the kids teach it at school? Answer the kids at school what they learned and it wasn't right. We need to figure out what wasn't right. How do you accept this thing? Ladies and gentlemen, whoever on Saturday says 'yes' to the motion of censure annuls this shameful agreement. It's so simple. Anyone who says 'no' is not just government support. The government did not do what it had the right to do. The only way to stop this process, the only way to cancel this outdated withdrawal of all Greek governments' positions, is to vote in favour of the motion of censure. The rulings will come, the ministers will come in the next few days and will refer to supposedly evidence from previous years in supposed documents. Can I tell you something? You agreed. No one else ever agreed! We have a deal now! We never had a deal! No Greek government has retreated. None! There's a deal now! In history, your deal will remain. There's nothing else. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Foreign Minister has come to make public information which was in favour of the arguments on the other side. When did the Minister of Foreign Affairs disclose evidence in favour of the other side? He gave arguments to those who did not know them, who proved to be also false from the scientific world, who at the time managed the country's very serious issues. Once again, I address the ANEL MPs who may have been taken away and entangled by their Chief. No one commits you to a choice, in one move, in a tactic that is contrary to your conscience. From the first moment on, many of you have said this position out loud. The time has come for the great 'yes' or 'no'. Do not let someone who has been made clear to you has proved to have no red line and no quarrel on a road for which your conscience itself does not allow. It is a position which many of you have expressed from the first moment, and I really do not understand that on Saturday you - you who had this fixed position - will come and say 'no' to this motion of censure. This 'no' is your signature under Kotzia's signature. The Prespecies Agreement will have the signature of Kotzia on and of all the other Members of Parliament underneath, all Members who will vote against the motion of censure. This is the truth, this is the historic event, which will happen, a historic event of gravity for everyone to pick it up. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And as Mr Chiaras quite rightly said, responsibility is not collective. Responsibility for these issues is individual, individual, with regard to history, to your conscience, to the people who supported you and sent you here, especially those who had as a gospel, as a front in your election speech, that you are not just going to vote, but you will never allow such a disgraceful agreement to be made to the interests of the country. So, you who were elected on this front, it is time to see if you are really consistent in this election speech or not. After Saturday, there's no excuse, no excuse, no reason. Things are clear: anyone who supports this agreement comes up here, supports it and votes against the motion of censure. Anyone who does not want this agreement to be made, who does not want to commit the country, comes and votes in favour of the motion of censure on Saturday. After Saturday the feats have been created, it will now be too late for everyone and there will be no excuse for anyone. This 'when the deal comes, we'll see' is hypocritical. Whoever got it drunk, they really wanted to entangle you. It is time to dismiss, consistent with your conscience, your historical responsibility, and keep up with the mind of the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Let the government not seek Saturday to finish the speech quickly. The whole list of Members must be exhausted, all the Members registered. It is a national issue and it is unacceptable that anyone who wishes to speak at all the time should not be allowed to speak at all times, whatever time the world can concentrate on outside. You know you can't get away from this. You cannot escape the responsibilities that your consent creates in your particular attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u80	Very good. Mr Katrugalos, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to the few arguments I have been able to make from the voices which have been heard, emphasising the only two issues - which I think, too, good people may wonder whether we really have a nationally advantaged agreement - on the issue of identity and language. I quote that the elephant present in the room is not only the agreement itself, but also the efforts of the New Democracy before an apparently nationally beneficial agreement, much better than that negotiated by themselves when it was in the government, which initially tried to put the bar of negotiation too high and, nevertheless, we managed to overcome these high standards, which we ourselves have set ourselves, to now try to show 'white as black'. We did have a move of retreat for the positions of the Head of State: from the national position on the composite name, as established at least in 1995 by the Interim Agreement, and here, up to nationalist cries, which actually deserve the intellectuals he wrote today in the Constitutional Journal that it is like, the Head of the New Democracy wanting to take the mandate to form the government from Mr Ivanov. The coincidence of the extreme nationalist circles that want to cancel the agreement is, in fact, a complete undermining and cancellation of the national position. And today I have not heard from the New Democracy if they still consider that the complex name is still part of the nationally accepted solution, as agreed. I quickly oppose arguments that a consistent reader could see, carefully reading the treaty. I have heard from the first rapporteur in New Democracy that there is no 'erga omnes' because there are transitional periods provided for in Article 1(10) to replace the documents. This is a net distortion or a failure to read. Article 1(9) expressly states that any new administrative document issued in the future will have the name North Macedonia. But there are millions, maybe tens of millions of documents already in existence. In order to renew these documents, it is clear that a transitional period must be provided, precisely because we want this agreement to be implemented. And if we were to ask on the other hand, not just the self-evident obligation that is issued in future to have the name agreed, but also the automatic replacement of the existing documents, we would ask for something impossible. The issues of identity, ethnicity and language will be the torso of my speech. On constitutional matters, which, in my opinion, were also put forward as a pretext for sin, a first-year of Constitutional Law would tell you the obvious two things: that international agreements are concluded with the signature of the appropriate Minister for Foreign Affairs, that they are also ratified, and then they are put into effect only, and then they are published and published by the signature of the President of the Republic and by his mandate to publish the law in force. The claim from a legal point of view that a State is bound by signature and that there are fetched law, which is not overthrown, is automatically false. Two historical examples I will tell you: President Wilson has negotiated the conclusion of the Agreement on the League of Nations. It was never passed by the American Congress, and the United States was never a member of the League of Nations. It was also the fate of the 1993 'Start III' agreement, 'Start II'. But let's actually go. Is there any reference to ethnicity in the agreement, which we will bring for ratification? Attention! We will bring her to ratification when the other side has fulfilled all its obligations, which are a diplomatic success. And the New Democracy is trying to cancel it, asking for a pre-approval, which from nowhere in the Constitution does not arise and which would be contrary to the political acquis of the negotiation. There is no reference to ethnic or ethnicity in the treaty nor could there be. There's a reference to citizenship, citizenship. Open your passports, gentlemen of the New Democracy. There you will see that the term 'nationality' is precisely the term 'nationality' or 'civility', that is, the legal link between the citizen and the state. It is not ethnicity, because it does not deal with ethnicity or the agreement could not be dealt with. It is a matter of consciousness and self-determination. What the agreement achieves is to disconnect the identity of the neighbouring state, in which they have the right to self-determination, from Greek history and from any argument or pretext of perverting to Greek Macedonia. In short, it distinguishes geography from history, for it is undeniable that ancient Macedonia was Greek. It is equally undeniable, however, that in the geographical area of Macedonia already since the 6th-7th century there have been Slavic sexes and the period of endogenesis, in the 19th century, what Trikoupis describes in a speech in 1880 applies. I read to you: "Macedonia can be divided into three sections: the south, which is and will be Greek, whatever happens, the central, the Greek population and the Arctic, that is, the north, the uninhabited text of the Greeks." In a later interview he says the famous phrase "when the great war comes, Macedonia will become either Greek or Bulgarian during the victories". Life has not proved so binary, white - black. We did not only have Bulgarian nationalism, which was our main opponent in the Macedonian struggle, and we also had Serbian nationalism, we also had a share of the population, which, although Slavs were not self-determined nationally, according to Bulgarian or Serbian nationalism. How does Myrbilis describe them in his novel "Life in the grave"? The novel is autobiography, as you know. He is caring for villagers "who understand it perfectly and the Bulgarians and the Serbs understand it. But they dislike the first Bulgarians because they took their children to the army. They hate the second ones who mistreated them for Bulgarians and look at us with a lot of sympathetic curiosity, the passing Romans, because we are spiritual subjects of "Patrice", that is, the Patriarch. And there are the graves of their forefathers and priests, who are carved with the sacred and mysterious Greek letters. These make us privileged in their eyes, even though they do not want to be either Bulgar, or Bulgarians, or Srps, or Serbs, or Grants, Greeks, only Makonortonx." These people were not called Skopje throughout the 20th century. We were calling them Slavamachens, and as far as their identity is concerned nothing says about the agreement. What did they admit, for the first time? Something historically self-proof, but that other nationalist regimes of the neighbour claimed it: that no relationship has any connection with the Greek history of Macedonia. No relationship is with Alexander the Great and they have an explicit obligation to withdraw, wherever the symbol of the Sun of Vergina is, along with all other historical monuments, that go back to our period. And why couldn't ethnicity be mentioned? Because the self-determination of the peoples, the classic Marxism, self-determination, today says International Law, is a right that is not so determined by objective rules, but by what he feels self-determined. Renan, speaking of Alsace, said that in terms of language, blood, soil, history should be German. But they want to be French, and that is enough to end the debate. So the nation is determined not objectively, but subjectively. It is not the task of the international treaty to define it. What did we want to do? To lift anything that can in future be a source of invasion and tension between states and we have achieved that much better than any negotiation in the past. After all, it's what we love. And we do not want to deprive the country of any people. We want to live smoothly and peacefully with them and there's nothing to separate us. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, I would like to ask your courtesy because I would like to say a few words about language. They called her a Macedonian. We called it Macedonian and sometimes just Macedonian. In a letter of March 16, 1904, Paul Melas speaks of the known Macedonian son, Captain Kota, whom we all know he was not speaking Greek. It says in the letter: “Speaked Macedonian”, the Pyrza translated into Greek. The stylist of national wisdom, leader of your party, the late Evangelos Averov - Tositsa on September 17, 1959, tells the House: "To the matter of language a lot can be said. Firstly, the Macedonian language is not spoken in Greek Macedonia, which is spoken in Skopje and has both grammar and editorial". He flies a more nationalist and says to him: "Macedonian language has never existed. Only the Greek language was in Macedonia. Do not use such expressions." And the poor Averof responds: "Mr., if you did me the honor of following me, you would see that they said that in Macedonia the Greek and in some respects a local idiom is spoken", what Mr. Babiniotis says, the Macedonian one. And it goes on: “In what sense, though, would you like the Greek Government to say in the Yugoslav Republic, in a language such as Macedonian, which the Constitution has among the official languages, to say that I want you to abolish it? It is like saying that its Constitution must be abolished.’ And Averoff didn't just say that. As you know, at the third United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names in 1977, technical issues have indeed been discussed, what the names will be called. But what did our country recognize then? There are two languages in the country next door: Serbian and Macedonian. And since we recognised this, even when objections were raised in 2007 and 2012, it was something that we had agreed and which the UN had included in the official catalogue, in its tablets - not official languages, in the official portrait of the languages that it recognizes for locals - and since then it could not be called into question. I'll be done. There is no good man who has read the agreement, who does not recognise that we have covered 110% of what was the national position since 1995, because we have added the constitutional revision to it, which was never one of the prerequisites that the Greek Governments have set. I think - and I shall say this frankly - that motion of censure you tabled the longest letter of suicide. You killed yourself politically. First - first, why deny yourself. Refugee yourself because you deny the national position that he has shaped, shaped Karamanlis and Mitsotakis. Doesn't it surprise you that Mr. Samaras invoked so much - the one conspiring of course in 1990 - Karamanlis and Papandreou, but not Mitsotakis? Have you forgotten what the late Mitsotakis said about Mr. Samaras? Aren't you worried that your protracting, which is one of the country's traditional historical orders, has now called for extreme right-wings that none of them have to do with the tradition of their leaders? You don't feel...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u82	Come short, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President. If I had Mr. Mitsotakis here, I'd ask him. These are issues of political tradition of himself and of his family. He can get over this. After all, every politician and every man is entitled to be a patron to promote his own ideas. But are these ideas his? He did not want to appear as a reformist politician who, along with the old PASOK, was the forces of interlocutory, the forces that brought the country to the dawn of the memorials, would bring it to a new spring? Is this the renewal of Mr. Mitsotakis, his identification with the extreme right, everything that Greek national wisdom has to show? That is why I call for the motion of censure to be rejected and for the government to vote for the vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u84	Where were you then? Aren't you ashamed? Don't you remember where you were?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u85	Please, Mr. Gregorako, you don't need any tensions or outbursts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u86	History must be in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u87	There is, but not to speak to the House at will. Anyone who knows her, write her, call her...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u88	Twenty years of PASOK was at the best places.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 35th Municipal School of Piraeus. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Athanasia (Sia) is now speaking about SYRIZA for 10 minutes. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Giulekas and Mr. Kumucascus will be followed. Mr. Gülekas is in the first eight on behalf of the New Democracy. Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed at a historic moment, a historic moment marked by the closure of an agreement on a major issue that has been affecting the Greek society and the Greek political leadership for twenty-seven years. But we are at a historic moment and for another reason. The Civic Opposition is trying here today and will try and tomorrow and tomorrow, not just to discuss a motion of censure, such as its parliamentary and constitutional right, but to divide and relinquish co-legislators of co-government as national traitors. Since the "left parenthesis" did not plunge, since the catastrophe that we would not get out of the memorials did not thrive, the last bulwark was national issues. There is memory, historical memory in this society and in this House when the Right uses, when it does not have a fertile policy, national issues to create a status of national wisdom: national traitors and nationalists. This should not be allowed by the Greek Parliament. It must stand at the height of the circumstances. We have an issue that closes with the historic agreement, the Macedonian one. What was the Macedonian? How was it created? When was it created and what leadership took the country out of the stagnation? I read to you, although the gentlemen and ladies of the New Democracy are now missing, but mainly the Chief of Officership and Ms. Bakoyannis,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u91	Here we go. Who's missing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u92	...who I'd like to look into the eyes and read, because we have a lot of files. On 13 April 1992, at the second National Council under the President of the Republic, and with Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis, what did Constantine Mitsotakis say then, when New Democracy was still able to produce a policy? He says Mitsotakis, warns the political leaders that they are in danger of taking a decision that will lead Greece for fifty years to the adventure that the Cyprus problem has today. "We have the Cyprus issue." - says - "I'm wondering, should we now add another unsolved problem without a way out? The heroic in here, we're making up our minds. But what way out will there be? When will Greece come out of the deadlock when this democracy is recognized by various countries? Never. Neither with my own government nor with anyone else. The only way out is, if we can agree, for Greece to cooperate peacefully with Skopje and help them together with the Community, with the EEC.' And it continues: "We form and our government has a responsibility" - because it was then Samaras the Minister of Foreign Affairs who was differentiated from the position of Constantine Mitsotakis - "for the public opinion that we have formed in the Greek people". And he concludes: "A second line of defense is an aggressive identification of the type "North Macedonia", with which to close the issue and then pursue a friendship attack on the neighbour." Constantine Mitsotakis, at those times, knows what the problem of history is. An entire world, the former Eastern bloc, has collapsed, forces have been released in the region and the country, if it wants to play a leading role in the European Union, then in the EEC, but also in our region, must itself give a solution to the problems and not become part of the problem. Constantine Mitsotakis at that time knew, as a bourgeois politician, that a country that wants to have a future takes the realities of history that have been formed and on the basis of them shapes the future. He doesn't go to hide or pick up nationalist skeletons from the closet. Mr. Samaras did this because he wanted to make a political career. Do not forget that at the time the Network 21 is being created. We could say a lot. Then the nationalist skeletons come out of the wardrobe for Macedonian. Then a nationalist narrative begins to be made - not national, the national narrative has been made by Mitsotakis at the time. Samaras makes a nationalist account, which returns to the Macedonians. Watch out, however, the Macedonians were playing their heads at a time when history was playing on another field, not on the 1990s field. So he's taking the dog out of nowhere to get her anywhere. It creates a major problem and creates a common opinion with the syllables at that time, with the various organizations and entangles political leadership. Many people then spoke from our side and gave support to Constantine Mitsotakis, so that the country can come out of the deadlock. Unfortunately, this was not the case. Then followed by the Interim Agreement of 2008 and so on. A national line is drawn, which calls a complex name by geographical definition and, of course, the term "Macedonia" within the complex name. From the Members of the New Democracy, did anyone disagree on this? Did either of you disagree then? Why do you now come and try to create a major national issue and relocate the skeletons from the wardrobes to divide Greek society? Greek history has paid too expensive nationalists and national traitors. That split, don't try to bring him back. Greek history, too, has to show great moments when political leaderships had the courage to vision the future of this society with freeness and to give a new perspective in relation to the region. The Treaty of Bucharest was signed in 1913. You keep talking about history, only you don't know history. What does Greece recognize with its signature and what has it achieved? He was Eleftherios Venizelos then in the leadership of the country. It recognizes Greece after many hardships, after too many battles, after many conflicts between the Balkans that, children, we have peace here. The world is falling apart from us, the Ottoman Empire, but we find them among us and share a legacy, the Ottoman Byzantine, the great Macedonia. The incorporation of Greek Macedonia into the national body, in Greece, is therefore guaranteed. That's what it says in 1913, and this treaty does not raise any revisions. Because if we get to the revisions of this treaty, then we legalise the revisions from which we are at risk. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And Venizelos came to the House - it was not this House - and he said - there are recorded minutes: "The national enemy,..." - because he was a great politician on these issues, no one agrees with him, but he had a prospect for the future of Greece - "... the Ottoman Empire indicated it to me. Pre-eternal enemies I don't have. I mean, I wanted to preserve the Balkans. With the Ottomans what I will do it is another case." And what did Venizelos do, since you want to talk about history? Eight years after the biggest national disaster he made Greek-Turkish friendship after the Asia Minor disaster. Because he knew one thing: a small country to be able to survive in this area must build a friendly environment. And you come now and you talk after so many years that you didn't dare your own position. And Mr Kumucakos tells us that we have a nuclear weapon - I didn't understand that nuclear weapon, but anyway - at a time and in an area where revisions are going and coming. In order for this country to have a future, what should it do with its neighbour and other neighbouring countries? It needs to create a shield of friendship, co-development and solidarity, so constantly redefining all revisions. Minister Katrugalos explained the agreement very well. I'm not going into this. It's a lie. It's hypocrisy. It is your cynicism when you say that this agreement is bad and ethnic. You know you're lying. But do you know where this leads? What you couldn't do with the economy. Because the economy was a great national problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u93	Please, please, get it over with right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u94	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because you did not know, you did not see, you did not dare - because politics is bold - in the name of this people, whom you now want to defend, to build a patriotic line. And patriotic means that I define the national interest in the data I have and the risks that the future poses. I want to close by saying one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u95	Please, you're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u96	I'm closing, Mr. President. In this part of the world, Europe, we have middle-aged nations among us, which are difficult to distinguish. A people decides at the critical moment: Or these middle-ages makes them a shield to go ahead or make them fort, closes to the cave and fights with the whole world outside. I hope that this Parliament will be lifted to the point of historical circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u97	Mr Kumucasakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day. It is a day of responsibility, national responsibility, but also a day of democratic responsibility. The Greek Parliament can today in this debate block the path of decline in which the worst government of post-population has taken place. But it is not just a day of responsibility. It is a day of beginning and consciousness of each and every one. I address this point to SYRIZA colleagues, but also to the Independent Greeks and ask them: How many times have you looked into the inner mirror of your conscience and said, "What am I going to do? What am I going to vote for? After saying any more, did I promise? I am sure there have been many times that you have felt indignant, betrayed and angry because other things you have been voting on. But you got over those feelings. Between conscience and authority, you have chosen authority. But that, so far - your choice instead of consciousness - has been about the economy. Do you stand to do so for such a crucial issue for the countryside, such as the name of the neighboring country? In two days, you will be invited to answer yourself, your children and history. The choice, but the responsibility will be all yours. The history, ladies and gentlemen, has opened up its book and notes what each and every one of us has done. Mr. Kotzias in a recent interview invoked Kavafi, reminding of a shocking verse that speaks of the moment of consciousness, the catalytic moment that we are called to say the great 'yes' or the great 'no'. Do you know what history will write if you vote, as you seem to be voting on Saturday? That for Macedonian in its modern form all the previous ones said 'no', while you were ready to say 'yes'. That'll write history no matter what you say. Unfortunately, today you are not simply forsaken for your sad performance in the economy. You're also in charge of something much more serious and something much bigger. It is about the national interests, history and ultimately the dignity of the Greeks. You decided to negotiate the issue of the name of the neighbouring country so suddenly. Why? I believe that for three reasons you have decided: firstly, because you felt strong with the negotiating weapon we gave you, namely the 2008 NATO Summit in Bucharest, when the government of Costas Karamanlis with the Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis and the Minister of Defence Vangelis Meimarakis did what he imagined impossible. They have convinced the hostile partners so far to adopt the Greek position in full, so unanimously the alliance has decided that without a solution this country cannot enter the alliance. This decision has been repeated at least eight times since then and is binding on the alliance, and the European Union itself has taken a reasonable decision. So, in your hand, you have this strong negotiating capacity, what I called a negotiating nuclear weapon. That was the first reason why you decided, because based on our diplomatic heritage, you felt that you had a good piece of paper in your hands. The second reason is because the juncture - not your own actions, but the juncture - in the neighbouring country you thought it favoured you. Gruevski's extreme nationalist government fell and the Zaev government formed, more flexible, ready to compromise. And why? Because in the ten years that this country has left outside Europe and NATO, it has now shown that this isolation can no longer be tolerated and it is time for the great compromise. So they were and remain the accelerating. They're asking for a solution, not us. The third reason you wanted to negotiate was that you believed - and that is the worst reason, your great mistake, I would say criminal error - that you can work on this national issue, take advantage of it to pervert the political system, change the political system and hit your political opponents, and especially the New Democracy. You're disgusted. We're a fist and you've got us in front of you. But it's just this micro-party design you've mortgaged and the result of the negotiation you've made. Reduce the result of the negotiation you could bring. Why? Because you've been consciously divided. You have divided consciously, forgetting that especially on this issue, which concerns the soul and dignity of all Greeks, the stiff inner front is what could result in good results. You have broken up the internal front and that is why you have brought the bad, extremely problematic agreement which we are rejecting today. And we reject it because in the past, after all, we have rejected other bad agreements, bad compromises, defying suffocating pressures of all kinds. So we have endured the hardships. You're subjecting yourself to the easy ones. Why is what other than naughty retreat is the agreement that your Prime Minister is ready to sign, with Macedonian language, with Macedonian ethnicity, with ambiguous 'erga omnes', with an extremely problematic procedure for what is going to happen to NATO or the European Union? And against all of this, what do you oppose? In the past - you say - several other unsatisfactory names had been discussed in the course of the 30 years. But you forget something: What has been discussed has not been agreed. You agree and threaten us and you are trying to blackmail us with supposedly threats, unacceptable and illegal - I say again, unacceptable and illegal - dark dives into secrets from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which you leak as you like and wherever you want, out of the context, out of time and out of the place. And who's doing this? Who? You, your Government, your Prime Minister, your Foreign Minister, who accepted - because you had accepted and did not hide - the worst, most serious problematic, the most severe chain name in the history of the thirty years of these negotiations, the "Iliden Macedonia". Do you blame who? You blame those who did not agree with you who agreed on the worst name of thirty years, what, if the political forces and the Greek society did not react together, would be the name of the agreement today. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something very serious and I would like you to take note of it. I have carefully read the agreement in its entirety and detail, and the conclusion I have reached is that this agreement as a whole is an agreement that implements the content of the name "Macedonia of Iliden". You changed the headline, but you kept the body. This agreement was ready, adapted to the name "Illinden Macedonia", in the most astronomical in the history of the negotiations. It didn't come out and you just changed the headline. The whole of the other, however, serves the most assimilating name in the thirty years of the negotiations. In the same sense you have dealt with the subject of language. I have referred to this today, and I will not come back. However, the discussion shows the unlikely, the really unlikely: while we give you real arguments, that Greece has not recognized a Macedonian language in the modern form of Macedonian, you find, you are looking, you are very detailed in looking for arguments that are in favour of the other side. Hey, that's never happened before! This has never been done, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and a government seeking arguments for another reading, not for our own reading. And I'll tell you something personal. As a diplomat for many years, I've been getting directions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The instructions I was given - whether I was in an international organization or in a bilateral embassy - said to me and to all colleagues "when you see the surname Macedonian or Macedonian in relation to the neighbouring country, you will object, you will try to change it". That's what we were taking as directions. Today, therefore, no diplomat who has fought on these issues, according to these directives, can accept your retreat. Ladies and gentlemen, these were the essentials - and I am ending with this, Mr President, in a minute - and serious problems with the agreement you are bringing today. But there is also a major institutional and political one: who, with its signature, will commit the country? An isolated from the people, but also his Government and his Ministerial Council of Prime Minister, without the consent of the Minister of National Defence. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The governments fell then, so it starts to smell a fall on yours. So listen, because you call it: that government with such problems has fallen and you are about to fall too sooner or later. A Prime Minister, then, isolated from the people, without the support of his government partner, without the support of the Minister of National Defence, who could not convince - take care of it - by negotiating his government partner and its outcome, do you believe that he will convince the Greek people?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Kumucaco, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u100	So this Prime Minister is ready with his signature to bind the country. We do everything we can to prevent that. We asked for a debate to take place to order or obtain approval from the House, if he convinced, to sign. He did not want it because the nonexistent would be exposed to today's meeting and his missing government partner. That's why he didn't want it. And because we owed our institutional and political support to the Greek people, we tabled the motion of censure, to measure you with history, to say the great 'yes' or the great 'no'. And you will say 'yes' and we will say 'no' and the story will write. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. The last thing you said, Mr. Kumucako, is self-evident. Mr Scandalides has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote 'yes' in the motion of censure, because you condemned Greece to go without compass in a tribal world, at a time when the ship had to sail in calm waters, with a bilingual, confusing, awkward, subjugated to the internal necessities, the critical national issues and to open the Aeolus coast. At a time when the external threat is growing, when the conflict of geostrategic and economic interests is declining in the region, Europe, which is trying to find its pace, is subject to pressure and is attempting to close down critical national issues. And now you're coming with the deal on the Skopje issue. It is an agreement that misleads this dramatic controversy in just historical terms. It has very specific proposals. It has positive points that one has to recognise, on what we have been fighting for these years. But it has so big gaps that positive ones are undone. It has gaps in what the President of the Change Movement said in the morning and regarding the identity, language, time to be invited to NATO, and finally the way in which the National Representation is to decide with a "yes" or a "no" on a situation that will have shaped a series of fait accomplis. And not to degrade these gaps, saying some things that do not stand, such as, for example, that 'nationality' means citizenship. The word "nationality" is classic, meaning ethnic. And this ethnicity and this self-determination, which we basically accept through the agreement to use at once within Skopje, is just one of the great gaps that the proposal you bring to the National Representation brings. I will stay on a matter of purely democratic and political legitimacy. The Prime Minister, in the absence of the government, carried out an obsolete opposition from the Minister of Defence, which makes us a resilient international, without any consultation with the parties representing the people, with a timetable that will bring the country into line with the unspeakable and voiceless parliament to decide at the same time a "yes" or a "no" celebration and, most importantly, with a large majority of the people in the face of both the national theme and the general situation that you brought the country. In a people such decisions increase its insecurity, raise the sense of its indecisiveness and it is evident that they find the country at point zero. The way you handled the Macedonian is continuously the way you handled Erdogan's journey, the response to Turkey's threats - when lions, when you are moderate - the captivity of our officers, the migratory flows. Yet the crisis in the region gave rise to a historic opportunity. The country was and is still the only pillar of development, democracy, security and the protection of European borders. It could under different circumstances and with a different government to renegotiate its role in the next few decades. The question is: What national leadership, with which national strategy, with which national fronts of united Hellenism forces, could demand that new national objectives be conquered and passed through a victorious course? It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this government cannot lead the country to the current critical conditions and it is clear why we are voting on the motion of censure. We are voting for the motion of censure, because after the formal exit from the memorials you are driving the country to the thorns. Four conditions were laid down: First of all, the evaluation. You have closed it in full, with a complete tradition and a substantial revision of the third memorandum, with the unfamiliar guarantee at the supreme. The post-exit framework, which is a memorandum without funding and which infinitely puts more burdens on the people's backs, with a medium-term development plan that is nonexistent, unfair and brutal in substance, when basically everything that we voted on before doing so in this time and in an endless way. Finally, while the debate on the debt under a serious negotiation would have led to some decisions concerning the debt and its relief, it comes, after these three previous years, to point to the bloody surpluses and the recession in which you will condemn the country in a way that shows that it is not just going to the thorns, but it is literally to be broken down. We are voting on the motion of censure because in your policy you have created a major crisis of institutions and democracy. With the laboring perception and deportation of the state, by manipulating the institutions, by abolishing the independence of powers, by the new strife that strives to turn you from a government to power, i.e. a regime, you show your perception of the functioning of democracy. It is crucial in the current phase to face together with the economic crisis and crisis of a democracy that throughout post-multiple was solid and stable. We are voting for the motion of censure, because with your policy at a time when Greekism had to set the new national targets, you cultivate polarisation, division, the frontal conflict. Cultivate exactly what he has experienced in a brutal manner during his time the Greek nation and Greek history. Do you know what the problem is? The problem is you have a target. You want to shape a party salvation scenario at all costs. You've spread the trachea. You've put all the issues on the table. You claim them in every way. Play one with the other, depending on the timing and the tactics. That's what you're capable of, I confess. But the script of party salvation is, unfortunately, against the national salvation scenarios which should be the programme of a progressive party, a progressive government that actually leads the country to progress and development. That is the most important reason why we are asking for elections now, because the country is being driven to a slippery and impasse path and because every day that this risk is going through is getting bigger. I would also like to say a word about Critical Opposition. It is the one that over time has the historical responsibility for starting the Macedonian and how to handle it. She is the one who has cultivated polarization and cultivates and accepts polarization, because this bipartisanism favours it and stands in its demographic performance. She is the one with her policy that gave birth to the crisis, the crisis that brought the memorials. They didn't bring the memorial to the crisis. I would also like to say a word about the fact that I represent. He was identified, accused, weight lifted with a sense of responsibility and pride. But it is this fact that set and achieved national targets throughout the post-government period. In 1981 it changed the conditions for membership at the time of the EEC. In the mid-1980 ’ s it vetoed the Mediterranean Integrated Programs and the later Convergence Programmes. In March 1987 he handled the Greek-Turkish crisis in a way that effectively overturned for the first time the negative connections that were formed after the post-Civilisation. In 1994, after four lost years, he brought the Convergence Programme that was implemented to lead the country to EMU and the euro and by putting national targets to Helsinki and Cyprus, which were national successes. They were national objectives specific, real and measurable. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. I hear various versions of history. There is a common view between the ruling party and the Civic Opposition to read history. It's Mr. Mitsotakis' time, where Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Samaras are separated. Four lost years were those. Two Convergence Programmes have been rejected by the European Union, after the country has been delayed this four-year period. And it's the time when Mr. Karamanlis and Mr. Samaras are again trying to separate himself. It is the four years that have actually led to the crisis. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But under no circumstances can history be rewritten. And now the people are not forgetting or rather the time has come to remember that we have always led things forward and you are making every effort to bring them back. But it won't pass you. We'll be back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much Mr Scandalides. Mr Christos Hadjisavvas from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u104	It goes without saying that the Golden Dawn would support the motion of censure and support any way, indirectly or directly, that it would deprive this government of the right to pass this betrayal agreement. It is also outrageous to see on such an important issue that it is at the beginning of the debate that we are going to end on Saturday afternoon or Saturday night. When all the Greek people have a look around because they sell their homeland, you care if some MPs can catch up on the last plane or the last football game. As far as the agreement is concerned, I shall refer to some very important points of this agreement and will refer to my competing speakers in the next few. The official name you want to give to Skopje is "Republic of Northern Macedonia", which will be the constitutional name of the second part of the agreement and will be used erga omnes. Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is Venezuela's normal name, but no one knows it. That is why you must stop the erga omnes and the other nonsense. In any case, the second synthetic thing does not matter whether it will be "North Macedonia", whether it will be "Severna Makedonija", whether it will be "Macedonia of Iliden". The question is that the name 'Macedonia' should not be used. That is the problem of the agreement and the negotiation that you have been making for so long. That, of course, is what you all agree on in the composite name. You are also talking about citizenship, which will be a Macedonian citizen of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. You're talking about the language. Of course, I shall refer to nationalities and languages. However, I should like to say that Members - who are committed not to attempt, instigate, support and tolerate non-friendly activities of another member and each member will immediately communicate to the other any information he holds in relation to, any such act or intention. He undertakes not to make or allow any alpha-perfusion statements. But what is the difference in both states? Here he will rule SYRIZA now and New Democracy, who by laws persecute Greek patriots and Greek nationalists and do not let you say anything that is national. There in Skopje they have VMRO's Ivanov who want land from Greece, want Florina, want Edessa, want Kilkis, want Thessaloniki's capital. So Skopje desperately seeks a link in the form that is the state. Bulgarians on the one hand give passports to any citizen of Skopje who wants to go naturalized Bulgarians, serving the Bulgarian alutism that is essentially the enemy of our Macedonia. On the other hand, we have Albanians hitting military in Tetovo. Within this great need, within this despair of joining the European Union, of getting NATO rescued, not being eaten, asking for the name and achieving it. National identity they want, Macedonian language they want, and you assign it. Taking these two, taking the name, taking the national identity of Macedonian and Macedonian, have won everything without any other ransom requirement in the future. Anyone who now seeks, in the future or in a hundred or two years' time, to find out what these Macedonians were and what Macedonia is, will in the end find that Macedonia is this state. Can't you understand that? You can't understand that no footnotes will read, no asterisks. So you're giving them both. And people don't understand something very simple. The liberation struggle for Macedonia was started when the Greeks were trying to free themselves from the Ottoman yoke. That was the first phase of liberation. In the second phase, the liberated territories had to be defended by the Slavs who wanted access to the sea. This is described very much in books such as "The secrets of the swamp" and other historical books, in addition to the novelty, and they mention the battles in the Prespes, the swamp of the Giannits, for torture, cleansing, murders by the cometads against the Greek element. There they fought heroes like Agras, Paul Melas and Captain Kottas, who Captain Kottas says that he was a slabophone. And because he was a slavophone, what's that supposed to mean? He had Greek, Greek national conscience. It is not the language of national conscience. And this, of course, proves, because many people, who speak here the Greek language, do not have Greek national consciousness and prove it at every opportunity. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The third phase of the liberation struggle was the treatment of the coalitioned Slavs and Greek communists in the armed effort to attach Greek Macedonia and Thrace to the Soviet block and immediately after the aerial propaganda of Tito and the Bulgarians through media. I in Kilkis since I saw Macedonia TV1, TV2, TV3 that was Skopje. They passed the truck drivers from Skopje and stamped "Macedonia". No reaction from the Greek state and from all governments, decades now. We have 'NOVA ZORA'. Do you know her "NOVA ZORA"? Of course you know her from here. It is a newspaper writing bilingual Slavics and Greek propaganda for the non-Greekity of Macedonia, for the Skopje of the slaves who have been oppressed by the Greeks and must be released. This also defends the 'Uranio TOXO' which in many areas was on the way from many governments and we found ballots in the polls, even when it did not participate in elections. The festivals of course with changed lyrics called "to liberate Thessaloniki", what will be said in Greece, who will denounce them? The government of SYRIZA? Today, then, the Greek people must understand that we are living in the third phase of the liberation struggle. The liberation struggle isn't over. All of this lives our local element of Macedonia and cannot accept any negotiation for the name. Even by voters of the SYRIZA who made fun of them and voted for you to smash the memorandum to give them back salaries and pensions, there are reactions, mobilize everyone, go down to the rallys. At the rallys, the most massive events that have taken place in recent years, which you don't fear, we didn't see you anywhere, you were all hidden. You've made it impossible for people to see nothing even from media. So you, in SYRIZA and you did not greet with Lafazan and Constantopoulou, are now trying to play ideologists and ideologists, the coded managers of the memorandums. Even your voters do not accept it. So blood has been spilled in all parts of Macedonia, and we Macedonians do not forget that. Our grandparents fought for Macedonia. We have orders from the dead heroes. Paul Melass writes in a letter to his wife: “I am happy only with the idea that we were here to defend our country. I also wish that my son Mickey will once feel the joy that I feel." These are written burning from his nationalist enthusiasm, the hero Paul Melas. This is also the debt that we as Greek patriots feel. When our children, after ten, twenty, thirty years, will ask us what we were doing when they sold part of Greece and our history, we will say that we golden people resisted, we did not accept it like that. And we will continue to resist wherever and whenever necessary. And as we say and believe, we have a debt, not to those who give orders, to give loan to Greece, we have a debt and we will judge the dead heroes who spilled their blood for our country and the unborn children of our nation. Continuing to Paul Mela’s second letter there is a description of what was happening. And he says to his wife: "You have no idea how patriotism these people have. One should be aware of the risks that daily run, in order to mean both their courage and patriotism." Indeed, the enslaved Greeks of Macedonian land at that time had suffered the millions. They killed, burned, cleaned, and they weren't afraid. Are we going to be afraid now because you make some decisions in here that have no application, no objection to the Greek people outside? So you have no legitimacy, not a deal, or even a negotiation, you do not. Our books, our history, we're not going to change them by any decision you make. The name, the historical name and everything else that goes with him, whether you want it or not, we're not going to give it in any way. The Greek people must say, along with the MPs who are against, 'not in national treason'. This agreement must not go through in any way. There'll be protests, there'll be rallys. And I of course invoke an article from the Constitution, 120: "Conservation of the Constitution depends on the patriotism of the Greeks who are entitled and are obliged to resist by any means against anyone who attempts to destroy it by force." So we as Golden Dawn tell all of you not to make a deal. It's very important. No agreement may be made by this House. No compromise on our Macedonia. People won't let it go like this. We'll do what needs to be done and do whatever it wants. Because Macedonia is either one way or another, or we will either have it or no one will.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor, please, from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. The KKE and the Greek people have rich experience of the bilateral controversy and the fighting, they have rich experience of similar motions of censure and distrust that have been made in the past by other parties. The aim of all these proposals was and is to mislead the people and disorientate them from the causes and the responsible ones of the problems and the deterioration of their position. Aiming for such proposals is nothing but trying to integrate and caging popular discontent into the millstones of its incorporation system and choice between Dog or Harybdis on the other hand. This project, which has just begun, has been repeated several times in the past with similar proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece has been clearly placed, but also with great responsibility since the beginning of the 1990s, for this matter, when all the other parties then ran to the nationalist rallys, when you all participated, except for the Lacekimonies, of the KKE, as Leonidas Kyrkos said. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] What, though, is hidden and what has not been heard since the debate so far and is not going to be heard by the other parties and then other than the JRC? Who was responsible for these issues that broke out in the early 1990s? Was the imperialist intervention in Yugoslavia not responsible for the division of the single Yugoslavia by the Germans, the Americans and NATO? Did they not take advantage of so-called nationalist, national and national issues and problems to move forward in destabilising the region, the division of the new Yugoslavia, the creation of protectionist states, the re-establishment of borders? That's what you're hiding. Why, then, either the New Democracy government in the first intervention by the imperialists in Yugoslavia or the PASOK government in the second intervention against the slaughterer, as you said at the time, Milosevic, had been given land and water to unleash the imperialists' attacks on the Balkans. And the people with their struggle tried to prevent this development of things, with the KKE protagonist, because we did not step on two boats and say no equal distance from the slaughterer, as some people called Milosevic, even though we did not agree with Milosevic's policy, nor did we support the Natalis on the other hand, as the Coalition then did. We had indicated from the outset that the problem is not in the name and those who cultivated that logic have done nothing but fuel nationalism and alutism. We burned nationalism. We had raised as a key issue the action of the imperialists in the region, who are also the factor of insecurity, of border change, of subjugation of nationalism and of asymmetricalism. And we unequivocally denounced the pervertalism. The imperialists, with their interventions, sought to strengthen their position, strengthen their presence in the region and with military bases, for example in Kosovo and elsewhere. They sought to strengthen the presence, but also the role of their monopolistic groups, for penetration in the region, for exploitation of the peoples and the wealthy sources of the region, for the sharing and redistribution of the region. The imperialists are behind and are making use of nationalism, in their logic of "dividing and reigning". This logic is that it facilitates his work in changing borders. Ladies and gentlemen, this experience has taken advantage of the Communist Party of Greece to judge the agreement that the government is preparing to sign with Skopje. This agreement - obviously not even the government itself - has the stamp of the United States, NATO and the European Union. After all, this agreement was reached by their inviting intervention and by the pressures they were exerting. That is why it is no coincidence that the first to welcome this agreement was the State Department, the Secretary-General of NATO, the European Union, the American Ambassador and all these representatives of the imperialist organisations. With this agreement, it is clear that, on the one hand, you are seeking accession and you are speeding up the process of joining the European Union and NATO, you are giving - as our party has already described - a letter of recommendation to Mr Zaev to apply for membership, light up the green light. It is a challenge to be the signifiers, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to strengthen the role of imperialism in the area of American imperialism, which is the factor of increasing opposition, is the main factor of destabilisation rather than stability in the region. Besides, experience shows. Albania didn't join NATO? Has her alperoid eyes stopped with the unexistent theme of the Chemistry? Turkey is not a founding member of NATO and our ally for decades? Has she stopped her expansional views toward the Aegean, taking advantage of a number of issues? So this integration will further destabilise the region. And it is a challenge for a party that said 'first time left' to the government, to strengthen the imperialists in the region with this agreement. What must be done, what the Communist Party of Greece proclaims and strives for the working class and the people, is our country to be released from NATO and the European Union, to weaken the role and strength of NATO and the European Union in the region, but also in general and globally. On the other hand, this agreement remains the sperm of altruism, with the acceptance of the positions of Macedonian citizen and a Macedonian language by the government. The Communist Party of Greece in its attitude will not acquit imperialism, as SYRIZA does, as other urban parties do. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a dangerous and provocative position that this agreement strengthens Greece's position and role in the Balkans. Because this aid is nothing but part of the secondary competition between Greece's bourgeoisie and the Turkish bourgeoisie, for who will have the upper hand in the Balkans. This logic is also the uterus of the further destabilisation of the area. It serves the needs and priorities of the Greek bourgeoisie, the Greek business groups for even greater penetration in the region. It is an agreement that strengthens nationalism and does not cultivate a sense of friendship and people's fellowship. This feeling will be strengthened in their shared struggle against imperialists and exploiters. On the other hand, the attitude of the New Democracy - and not just the New Democracy - is hypocritical. Because the New Democracy and the PASOK and the other parties agree with the strategy. In other words, they agree that NATO and the European Union must strengthen its position and its presence in the region. They agree with the accession of the Western Balkans to NATO and to the European Union. They agree with the strengthening of Greece's position in the Balkans. They support and agree with the logic of upgrading our country in the wider region, a strategic choice of the bourgeoisie to shield the interests of Greek business groups for their further strengthening and infiltration. You agree with the expansion of the imperialists in the Balkans, you agree with the intensity of the exploitation of the people. Besides, the upgrading of our country's position is on the other side of the same coin, the currency of class policy that is applied internally, the anti-grass attack that serves the needs of capital to shield competitiveness and profitability. In the two-day debate prior to the plan and in the medium term, the strategic conclusion of SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK proved once again. You all talk together and excite capitalist development. Together you seek and compete at the same time on who best can support the interests of monopolies, on who better can strengthen the competitiveness of business groups, on who can best enforce the policy of tension, the exploitation of workers and the oppression of the people. Together you support the rotten and exploiting capitalist system. After all, you have voted together and voted for the memorials, together you are implementing them, one is taking the thread from the other, from the other, and the other continues to apply the same policy to the same tracks that have been carved with the blood and sweat of the peoples, the bourgeoisie, capital and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece is on the other side, along with the working class and the people who protested today, who participated in the strikes. We're together. Workers and the people have the strength and experience. They can make the decisive reproach and distrust with their struggles towards the government, but also the parties that support this rotten system, against the capitalist groups and the imperialist organisations. Don't deceive yourself, ladies and gentlemen. The Communist Party of Greece will not become a complement to any party, either of SYRIZA or of New Democracy. We will not become a 'urse' in your hypocritical and hideous pursuits. With our attitude, we will not make it easier for you to make this dangerous for the interests of the people and to play a dead end to the people. The position of the JRC is at the forefront of organising the struggle of the peoples, the determination and the militarity of the struggles of the working class, the unity of the people, the joint action with the peoples of the Balkans to defeat the imperialists and their system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u107	The next speaker is Mr Zouraris from the Independent Greeks. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u108	Mr. President, my respects. Colleagues, there is this motion of censure, which, if we had anything to do with the literality, should be called a motion of censure, because I assume that the hanged man's house is not talking about a rope, that maybe the thief is yelling to fear the householder. I have, of course, watched for some distances - for so many years, the amazing co-management for fifty years of what is called the re-population of the two leaders of this co-management, namely the then PASOK and New Democracy, always now and ever. I remember that repeated factors in international affairs and those who had said that there has never been such bankruptcy, in a time of peace to lose a country 25% of the Gross National Product along with all the consequent catastrophes. I would remind you in the dear major opposition and possibly in the co-government then, from 2010 to 2014, that this co-government had then managed five regular budgets. During your co-management for five regular budgets you managed to send about two hundred and fifty thousand young people from productive and fertile abroad, hunted, and even with a maximum degree of education that each had cost about half a million euros to pick him up from the nursery station to the postgraduate. There have therefore been five regular budgets and you have sent abroad two hundred and fifty thousand people, young people, together with another two hundred thousand, as the National Statistical Office and the European Statistical Office say, a total of four hundred thirty thousand. Looks like some people are now getting back. I have just attended the exemplary lesson made by Sia Anagnostopoulou on the issues of history and the so-called "Macedonian", i.e. Skopje. And I followed Mr Paulakis and, of course, Minister Blondos, who taught me things that we common mortals were impossible to know. In other words, this incredible situation of interdependence and interdependence between medicines, companies, doctors, pharmacists, machine orders, gauzes which at the pharmacy were taking 'h' and to the hospital with these committees - which I, for example, have never been - cost about five times more or eight times more. These disgraces were created during the famous fifty - year period. In other words, everything is incorporated into your motion of censure, because it is an organic part of your distrust as a major opposition to yourself. I mean, it's outrageous. Everyone told you that this has never been done. In fact, I remember the first years I have been here as a congressman, who said that now, my own, is the worst that's ever been, and so on. And I say this: you have, for fifty years, actually sent the country to the duvet, in a time of peace, with easy money, etc., with such incredible bankruptcy, with mass immigration which I remember when I was a child, in 1952 to 1957. But then the poor left, and now the over-trained ones are leaving. So, is that not the worst government on the planet? I say as a logical synapse that has been accomplished during your term of office. Therefore, your proposal of distrust does not only have evidence of anger due to the inconsistency between this monastic flooding of your work and your failure. There is also evidence, which is extremely insulting for today's effort for three, four years, in conditions, of course, of destruction in which we - in fact, patches - have been doing - attempting for almost four years to reduce, to mitigate, to curb this curse. And we've accomplished a lot of things that you know and you hide. Of course, it seems that one of your elements is the hard part, because you're moving. I followed, for example, Mr Kumucako the other day. You know, the truth is, sometimes we read the same things. At least from my profession I was a careful reader and a well-meaning lawyer. I managed to read the whole opposite, which I learned very well. I read the text which the government has given us, this preliminary draft which was developed by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras the other day. I will not go far, of course, because 'you can even convince me'. I am not going to convince Mr Kumucako, I am simply going to say this: on the basis of the factor of intelligence I have and the index of refreshment that Mr Kumucasco has, I have also been able to read this text and reach the completely opposite results and conclusions of Mr Kumucaku. What can we do? That's life. That's why there's dialectics, that's why there's controversy and it's sacred...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u109	I'm honored, Professor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u110	Sure. I cannot convince anyone if we are not able to have this, at least, which says in Plato's "Political" the "Delectoral Beard". You don't want to be more dialectic, you just want to be 'flying'. Not with the lever.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u111	We're stronger than the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u112	Resistance? I was surprised - maybe sometimes we should talk about it - this reading superficiality in the text. Where did you get these? It's amazing. In any case, I will finish, because, yes, I have. It was exemplary and rhetoric of Zia Anagnostopoulou. I followed, of course, very carefully the Prime Minister of the country yesterday and was amazed at it. I liked it very much. The reporters were out of place and time, both two and a half and three. Is it possible for you to have three journalists and not be a Macedonian, not serve on a station, on a television station in Macedonia? Could one of the two gentlemen and one lady have something to do with Macedonia unclear, relaxed. Is that possible? What's that athinocraticism? Champari and them, just like you. So I will say: I was moved to tears when I heard the Prime Minister of the country saying: “I'm not afraid of protests. I respect them.' He respects them. It happened: When I heard the Prime Minister say the day before yesterday, and in Greek this is called "North Macedonia", I suddenly felt my physical condition - that is, I began to have seizures in the stomach, to have chills and a tendency to vomit - just as when my two brothers came years ago and told me that our mother died. This is what I had when I heard in Greek the term 'Macedonia'. Of course, I will talk later, if we are still here, if I speak in six months, at any rate, on the subject. One thing I will only say to you, without saying anything at all: I come - personally, because the Annells will tell you theirs, I will tell you other things - from an epic - tragic mixture, i.e. I am an Istanbul Cretan citizen. You understand that if I have to vote, I will not vote for the cuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 8th Artas Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, why did we get this far? So today, gentlemen, from the Centroon Association you will get the answer why we have reached this point. The mock is enough! The glass is over! Macedonia is lost and you are responsible for all those who had positions of responsibility, all those who managed this major national issue, all who showed irresponsibility and did not step on your feet and raise your voice and did not seem to be worthy of the circumstances when the times demanded it! How many of you who have wrongly served national interests have resigned? How many were you willing to take political responsibility and go home? How many people did you apologize for? How many did you say, "I'm responsible"? How many? Nobody. Not one. And there are many in this Chamber who handled this issue. Yes, today is a historic day. Today, opposition distrusts and the government celebrates, each on its side, for their own reasons. But you're both out of reality. This is the general remark that the Centroon Union wants to make in this parody that citizens are watching. You're all out of reality! The opposition is denouncing the facts of the government, waiting for citizens to go out on the streets, believing that if they come out, it will be because they are called, how they will come out, in other words, to support it in overthrowing the government. And the government celebrates, waiting for the applause and congratulations, which believes they deserve, because, on the one hand, it clearly took the country out of the memorials and, on the other hand, because, on the other hand, the scorpion was resolved in the best way. And you and you don't make fun of the world or even think you're making fun of him. The opposition denounces and distrusts, but has not yet been told what its position is in the sceptic, if, that is, if they would agree to include the word "Macedonia" in the name of the neighbours regardless of details. I ask you directly: would you accept a solution that would give the term 'Macedonia' in the hypothesis that you yourself managed this issue without any restriction on the details of the agreement? What did the complex name in the negotiations mean in 2008 by geographical identification in a country that we had already accepted in the interim agreement the word FYROM? You had, gentlemen, an obligation to denounce - and the PASOK in the 1990s and the New Democracy - the interim agreement when the Skopje trampled it hundreds of times. Did you do it? Why didn't you? So I ask you again: would you accept, gentlemen, a solution that would give the name 'Macedonia' in the hypothetical case where you yourself wrote, you yourself, without any restriction, details? You have not answered this question and you now come to convince that it is a bad agreement not because it contains the name "Macedonia", but because the terms, these letters are not as they should be. That is why I am telling you: This is our difference with the Centro Association, that you are out of reality. Because the Centroon Union does not in any way accept the term 'Macedonia' in any agreement. So those on the streets protest against the transfer of the word "Macedonia". No one's going out on the streets for the finest letters. Still, you're trying to get what you originally avoided. What was your attitude before Thessaloniki's first rally? Do you think our fellow citizens have short memory? You think they don't remember that in three days you changed your position three times? You have not, in the end, told us which of the three hundred memorandum laws that have been passed, which have been forcefully imposed in this Chamber for the last eight years, would you destroy them or change them if you had had the opportunity? Only the laws of Gabroglou I've heard you say you're going to dismantle those who, that is, Phil's, have not already been dismantled by Mr. Gabroglou. The government, on the other hand, celebrates and rejoices. But he probably doesn't realize it's not raining. It is not the rain that falls, ladies and gentlemen. You claim you took us out of the memos. Saying this on the same day that, by law, the right to the supreme can for the next sixty years, if we cannot afford to pay our instalments on time - even to sell water - explains how well your claim for clean exit is. You have solved the problem, you have told us, because you wanted it yourself and not because you were under pressure from the United States or from Germany, not because the international player pushed you. How can you claim, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you solved this on your own initiative, when only yesterday the Prime Minister admitted that his partner, Mr. Kammenos, the President of the Independent Greeks, did not pay particular attention to hearing him speak of a complex name in the September 2015 programming statements, because he did not believe that there was a prospect of a solution? After all, SYRIZA - ANEL cooperation, as you say, every time others vote and others vote, has been based on two legs: in the promise of better management of the memoranda by those who brought the country to this point and in the promise of more effective response to corruption and interlocutory. None of you told the citizens before the September 2015 elections, that you are planning to solve the Skopje. No one dares to claim that you have consulted the Independent Greeks on this matter. So, gentlemen of the government, today you are in this position because you have chosen it. You've opened the spy yourself. So, on your own, you have acted, except for your agreement, that you have done with the Independent Greeks. In short, you have fooled your government partners. Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking for a historic moment and you are speaking for different reasons. You talk about historical responsibilities, you refer to historical memory. In short, you have decided to put them in the word 'historic'. How many words they've lost their meaning from what you've done and me and them! Remember how many words have you abused? Should we say 'development', 'investment','reforms', 'clean exits','wage rationalisation', 'preferences'? In all these Greek words you have humiliated, you said, therefore, to add one more word, the word "historic". But you're really - and I'm sadly saying it - too young to alter history, but also to write history. You're young because you're lying - both of you - to the Greek people. You all remembered, supposedly, suddenly your principles, your values, your beliefs and you almost convinced us that you are conscious and that it guides your actions. You're lying, dear colleagues. Where were your principles, where were your values, where were your beliefs, when in the summer of 2015, with the vote of two hundred fifty MPs, you handed over the country? Where was your conscience when you all handed over the country when you handed over our national sovereignty? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Now did you remember? And why did you remember that now, ladies and gentlemen? Because they're coming to elections? Does the opposition accept the name "Macedonia" or is it simply complaining about the details? Does the government accept the name "Macedonia" or because of having subjected to extortion, did it go on? Does Mr. Kammenos know that? So what is this common position, this position of both, since you are both giving the name 'Macedonia'? What does it have to do with what you say and do, with the request of my fellow citizens, not to accept any use of the term 'Macedonia'? How many words have half-three and incomprehensible in recent years because of you? Ladies and gentlemen, you will not achieve this with Macedonia. You will eat your face, trying to sell the word "Macedonia". This word has been written in blood in the conscience of the Greeks. You can't alter her meaning, you can't do anything to her at all. Ladies and gentlemen, she throws hail in my city of Thessaloniki and I will have to go stand by my fellow citizens, because in my country I stand here every day, 24 hours, every minute. That is why I am responding to the proposal for distrust of the New Democracy and clarifying the position of the Central Association: to commit Mr Mitsotakis from this step - whenever he speaks in public - to not accept the name of Macedonia if he is in the government. To turn around and say that the negotiations will start on a zero basis. Make a commitment to be more Greek than the Greeks who ruled this country and the Centro Association will support the proposal of distrust of the New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Amanatidis has the floor. And then we'll start the list of speakers with the first speaker, Mr. Bored. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the motion of censure against the government, tabled by all the Members of the New Democracy and by the parliamentary group. So, by reading the motion of censure, this is being tabled because three and a half years now this government has poorly signed up to the citizens, it has signed two unjustified memorials - and, indeed, this is a next memorandum - bound the country with severe cuts in pensions and wages, increased taxes, mortgaged public property, insecurity everywhere, with unacceptable maladministration, causing damage to the functioning of the institutions and the rule of law. And why is he filing it now? Because he says the announcement of the agreement with the Macedonian government is the drop that breaks out of the glass of indignation. If, then, the second is the'stage', the previous is the 'poor'. So, while you were entitled to table a motion of censure against the government on the 'poor', you did not submit it more forward and you are finally tabling it on the 'drip'? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I'll tell you why. Because you are hypocritical and because you too do not believe in the motion of censure, which you are doing. Let the word unnecessarily refer to Mr Samaras' success story, which fortunately stopped in 2015, because he was putting us in excess of 20 billion additional for the next few years. And that was stopped by SYRIZA's government in 2015. Mr Mitsotakis said in his speech: 'The problem of Skopje cannot be our problem'. In fact, is it not a problem for our country that official evacuation is taking place in a neighbouring country and where nationalist forces can be strengthened and strengthened? Is it not a problem for our country that about a hundred and forty countries recognized the neighbouring country under its constitutional name? Is it not a problem for our country to penetrate and strengthen the role of third parties in the neighbouring country? It is not a problem for our country - why is the Holy Synod opposed - the schismatic church of the neighbouring country? Is it not a problem for our country how the political enlargement of the European Union will take place? Is it not a problem for our country for stability, peace, prosperity and development in the region? Is it not a problem for our country to strengthen their geopolitical and geostrategic role? They're problems for our country. But you have learned to be a force of inertia, a force that cannot understand what active, multi-dimensional foreign policy means. Why, then, do you table a motion of distrust? In order not to create - as you say - harmful feats. So what are the harmful effects, for the Greek people to be informed? The fact that for the first time a country is changing its Constitution with a geographically complex name, erga omnes really rather than international erga omnes? The fact that this is guaranteed in a constitutional way? The fact that it's in the past? Does the Macedonian, Macedonian, Macedonian and Macedonian terms refer to a different historical context and cultural heritage? The fact that these terms for us refer not only to the region or the population of our northern region, but also to their characteristics, the Greek culture, the history, the culture and heritage of this region since the ancient times? Is it detrimental to them that they mean their territory, language and population in their own history, other than what they refer to us? Is it harmful that their official language recognizes that it belongs to the group of southern Slavic languages and that their official language and other characteristics have nothing to do with ancient Greek culture, history, culture and heritage of the northern region of the First Part? Are these harmful feats? You can answer us. Even now you don't have any suggestions. Mr. Kumoutsakos spoke of a nuclear weapon and referred to one piece only, in what happened in Bucharest in 2008. I challenge Mr Kumucako and anyone else he wants: On 14 March 2008, the country had a place for a complex geographical name, yes or no, with the most official lips of the policies of that time? Yes or no? Are you going to answer us? It's better to silence, because you know. That's why I'm saying it's a hypocritical attitude. Here, even now, you don't say what your position is. You say in contrast, that is, 'we do not want this agreement'. What do you want? Do you want it the complex geographical name, yes or no? Do you really want her erga omnes? Do you want constitutional changes? You know, you decided from the outset that you would not vote for this agreement or any agreement. Besides, you never thought that this would be the deal, as you thought SYRIZA would be the left-hand side. You both got laughed. That is why, at first, you spoke of secret diplomacy, then you talked about alphatutism, then about erga omnes, about constitutional changes, and when all this happened, you came up with something that you and your own powers and you did not react since 1977, to speak about Macedonian language. So as long as you hold the nuclear weapon, it'll blow into your hands. Because even now you have not been able to acquire erga omnes for both abroad and internally. But you say abroad, in Sofia, and you say other things inside the country. Why is that? Why don't you put national interests first. You put your inner front and your cohesion. It is bad for a party, such as the Qualified Opposition, who wants to rule, judge and make positions, or rather not take a stand at home. And when you look inside, you scare, because the contradictions are huge. And when you look out to the world, you think these contradictions are also to the Greek people. You won't divide the Greek people. The Greek people unitedly fought these three years, united out of this crisis and united will also give their struggle for the future. Your position is unscrupulous, politically irresponsible, but also dangerous. And I'll tell you why it's dangerous. I have heard Mr Georgioda, who even now insists that the agreement be ratified by the House and then signed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the insurance policy our country has on the fact that all this is going to happen and you're going to throw it away? That's why you're dangerous. You have to look with responsibility. Is that possible? Is it possible to hear it from the rapporteur of the New Democracy? You want me to tell you what he's saying? As far as the procedure is concerned, the agreement says: "The Second Part...", that is, FYROM, "without delay will table the agreement in its parliament for ratification. Following ratification by his parliament, Part Two will notify the First Party that he has ratified the agreement. Part Two...”, FYROM, namely, "When it decides, it will make a referendum, make the constitutional changes, as expected, it will make the constitutional amendments in total by the end of 2018...", there are no ends, "... and after all, this agreement will come to the Greek Parliament". And this here, the insurance policy, you're giving it away, are you throwing it away? Think it over. On the other hand, look at the arguments of the two brothers parties in the European People's Party and VMRO in the neighbouring country and New Democracy. If you leave the same argument and change only the names and who says them, you will find no difference at all, because they are the forces of regression. Some people have now caught their sensitivity to northern Greece and Thessaloniki, where when the industrial zone was closed and were plagued by unemployment rates very large, they would come to northern Greece and only mourned it when the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki was held. And they said, "How nice you are. You are your co-chairman." And that's where the troubles were big. This government has shown interest in northern Greece and its problems. The Prime Minister is very often in Thessaloniki. The function of Prime Minister every time in Thessaloniki is to solve problems such as OSTH, subway, free spaces. And that's where we're interested. Even for Kilkis, where Mr Georgantas referred, for his area, ten years made the department of TEI transfer to the new building, and we came and did it. And don't worry, because the TEI will strengthen the Kilkis. So, they were used to it. Coming up and hitting the backs and problems running. History will judge us and write us about what you did and do at the expense of the country, acting as a historical barbecue. And that's why? Because you're defending the few and the old. We defend the many and bring the new one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We can look into the eyes of the Thessalonians and of all the Greek people and tell him that this agreement solves the best possible way, serves the national line to expressly and officially now the positions of our country. The best solution is to solve a problem which has troubled the country and which will give the geopolitical and strategic role in our country in the wider region. Do not invest and water the tree of extremist nationalist populism, because if your positions are only unclear, at this time you are giving food to those who, first of all, will come across from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I will give the floor to Mr Borente, who is the first on the list. First, I would be very much inclined to keep the seven minute so that those who can speak on the basis of the seven minutes by 1.30, as we have said. Secondly, any fellow Member who speaks his name and is not in the Chamber, know that he will automatically be deleted and will not have the right, for example tomorrow and after he has been called, to ask - to say so - to speak the next day. Mr. Bored, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to Mr Hatzidakis' admiration at the beginning of the debate on the procedure, at some point I felt myself in love with the admiration for the sacred zeal of the Members of the New Democracy, to take the time with their presence here in the House and their arguments. Finally I found that some miracles do not last three days and the great four, but it is enough for them to land us in reality. As I speak of reality, what is the reason why the Chief of Staff has made the motion of censure? In my opinion, it is turning a very important subject of strategic foreign policy implications into an internal political game, it is commonly gambled. What's he gambling for? An issue like the Macedonian, which has been afflicting the country for the past thirty years. And where does this thing come from? On the wheel now turning, on the wheel of the rallys, the national misunderstandings, the confusions, which are often understood by some of the public. And when does that happen? Thirty years after the country experienced some political turbulence, resulting in caging it in a fierce diplomatic work, in a consumption of diplomatic capital. Flurred with graphics - he chased windmills and at some point you have to admit it, if you want, to be honest in this Chamber - and the feeling that we are experiencing a defeat. It's unsatisfactory someone would say. Look at that. Constantine Mitsotakis had said that the Macedonian theme was used as a pretext for overturning his government. I don't know, or I'm in charge of judging it. Let history judge it and appreciate it. Mr. Constantine Mitsotakis said something else then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u119	He's not a gentleman, he's gone, he's greedy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u120	Oh, I'm sorry. Constantine Mitsotakis said something else then. That on the night that Yugoslavia was dissolving, he looked for Mr Antonis Samaras on the phone, didn't find him, and then the Prime Minister said he wanted to tell him: that now that the Germans and the others are "burned" for Croatia's recognition, it is time to raise the issue and the conditions for Skopje. I do not suggest that the former Prime Minister consciously ignored or damaged national interests. What I'm saying, though, is that a historic opportunity has been lost, and when you resign for the loss of this historic opportunity, you cannot then appear as a mobster, give in to others for humiliating behavior and a lack of patriotism. And you know what the culmination of political surrealism is? The culmination of political surrealism is that Mr. Samaras imposes this view on the New Democracy, and Kyriakos Mitsotakis comes and wears the armor of the Macedonian people, putting on a second fate, destroying, flying into the basket of the unusables what was positive that he offered in the formation of the national strategy with which the country went in 2008 in Bucharest. Or didn't that happen? We don't live in the country of the lascivists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u121	The lobsters!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u122	The locusts, right. Well, the lascivists didn't go back. Mr Hatzidakis, I think that behind this mentality, and this practice hides the mindset of Greece, which was in bankruptcy, but where everything can get into gambling. Aren't we gonna leave something out of this gambling? And you think you'll win everyone you invest and bet there. And if you're supposed to win, will the country have won or lost?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u123	He'll have won a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u124	The point is, my colleague, that patriots are not the one coming out on the tiles and screaming at how patriots he is. Sometimes the screams may want to hide something. The question is: What Greece do we want, gentlemen? Always besieged? Enclosed? Awesome? Is this Greece we want? Which bow do you want on the north border to form? Tell us what bow? What real danger to foreign policy are you ignoring? Can you say that? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the exploitation of pure feelings of a portion of the people for micro-political purposes is a prejudicial one. This hurricane of the recent past I described led you to the nemesis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Bored, please, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u126	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think this is not going to happen at the end of the day. In the country it deserves a better future. Mr Theodorakis said so successfully. How, otherwise, do you want Thessaloniki the capital of the Balkans with everything closed around? Hey, it can't be! What's your proposal for this? What are you talking about? I heard about Mr. Burnedo. And if you want, I'll take it into account. For the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u127	We've reached eight minutes, Mr. Vice President. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u128	I say and now conclude, Mr President, that those who try to divide the Greek people must be isolated. I think that if something in 1990 was wrong, it can now also prove to be a crime, but I do not think it can be done. A diplomatic defeat can be turned into a national victory for the benefit not only of the Greek people but also of the peoples of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u129	Mr Gülekas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to talk about Macedonia. Of course, at this step we must be aware of the responsibility we have taken toward our country, to the nation, and we must be ‘conscious’ to ourselves by feelings in order to be objective and fair. However, we cannot always achieve it. And the speaker, I cannot forget that I am here, in this step, carrying on my backs the responsibility of representing thousands of Macedonian citizens, thousands of Thessalonians, who have been overwhelmed by a message these days: do not sell out the fairs of our Macedonia. I cannot dominate myself, ladies and gentlemen, from emotions and intense emotions, when I am invited to speak about Macedonia from this step, I, the grandson of my Macedonian and Bulgarian grandfather, Elijah Gülekas, who fought and killed for Macedonia. And I can't forget what he was telling me about how Macedonia was held up and what many of those people, who I caught up with, and recorded their testimonies, who fought and fought in difficult years. And because I heard Mr. Katrugalos and Mrs. Anagnostopoulos and other references to the Macedonian Struggle and Paul Mela, who spilled his blood and gave his life for Macedonia, remind you of the story that when they hanged in Att Pazar, the Monastery, the Captain - Kotta, he returned to the Slavic idiom he spoke and shouted "Dazeve Grecia", "Leave Greece!" It's the language that he was talking about and where you recognize her as Macedonian language! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] No, we cannot forget that, ladies and gentlemen. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It's okay, you baptized patriotic nationalism and it bothers you, you call us "vekis", you tell us old, backwards. You, you think when we talk about this, about history you're the new ones, that you're cutting the new one. So let's go here and get a clear spot for everyone, without spins. We all need a solution. We in the New Democracy are also seeking a solution. But what solution? Of course, Greece wants stability in the region, in all the Balkans, and of course we recognise the Skopje's right to join both NATO and the European Union. But not to the detriment of our national interests, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the Coupling. What the government presents as a "solution" in the scorpion is, in fact, a painful national compromise, a real selling out of Macedonia. And because I heard the day before yesterday that the Greek Prime Minister said that he felt nationally proud, we want to tell him that what the centuries respected, history itself, what we maintained as a people with many struggles, with many sacrifices, Alexis Tsipras delivered it overnight. He has brought an obscure and unacceptable agreement, which gives the Skopje the greatest and strengthens the scepticism of Skopje, despite what the Prime Minister says to the contrary. The text of the agreement, ladies and gentlemen, confirms our worst forecasts. You delivered the name Macedonian and recognized the Macedonian Macedonian identities and Macedonian languages, that is the root of Skopje alutism. You delivered to the Skopje the term Macedonian and recognized their right to identify themselves as Macedonians. Are you nationally proud of this? You recognised a state called North Macedonia, which will be translated into all languages, namely northern Macedonia. What erga omnes and what is southern Macedonia? What are we the Macedonians? The inhabitants of southern Macedonia? And where does the so-called 'Severna Makedonija' appear in the agreement? Nowhere. Open Article 1, paragraph 3a, of the agreement and read. The so-called erga omnes has gone for a walk. Nowhere is the absolute time to fulfil the obligations of Skopje, while Tsipras and Kotzias also accepted the maintenance of the present acronyms of the country MK and MKD, i.e. just Macedonia. Read Article 1(3)(e) of the Agreement. Are you, too, nationally proud? You have agreed to set up a committee, which - listen to this - will consider how to teach the history of the two countries in order to remove the leniency reports. Ladies and gentlemen, not only the history of Skopje, but also the history of the Greeks, will not be considered and has the means of national repressive propaganda. Will the Macedonian struggle also be characterized as a nationalist outbreak of the Greeks? Really, how low can you fall? And that's why you're nationally proud? With regard to trade agreements, trademarks and trademarks, an international team will take over to tell us in three years what will happen with questioning the final outcome. We don't know if we can call our products Macedonian. The agreement, in Article 7, states that each country will interpret the term Macedonia and Macedonia at will. It does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that the Skopje renounce whatever relationship with ancient Greece, because they themselves falsely claim that the ancient Macedonians had nothing to do with ancient Greeks and ancient political culture. What will prevent another government in Skopje tomorrow from continuing to spread the historical lies about Macedonian nation lies defending until today? And because you made reference to some leaders - and it was inappropriate of you, because you made it with reduced remarks - and even to late leaders such as Constantine Karamanlis, Evangelos Averov, Costas Mitsotakis, I will tell you that when these leaders were speaking about Macedonia they were crying. Let me remind you of that scene of the great Macedonian politician Konstantinos Karamanlis, who at the airport "MAKEDONIA" referred to the injustice that was taking place at the expense of our country, left a tear to flow and said that "There is only one Macedonian and that Macedonia is Greek". And if Alexis Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, does not believe that Macedonia is one and it is Greek, and if in SYRIZA you insist on calling many Skopje Skopje the Macedonian – we have your documentary documents, we have your papers, but let us leave the paradox to you - I will tell you what a leader did when he was faced with history. I will tell you what Costas Karamanlis did in Bucharest in 2008: Prevent Macedonian integration into NATO under the fake name Macedonia. This is a national proudness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Güleka, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u132	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of Greek citizens disagree with this agreement. It's against the sale of Macedonia and history. We will do everything we can to cancel this shameful agreement. That is what national conscience demands, over and above parties and groups. We call on Alexis Tsipras not to sign this filthy agreement against our national interests. If he does not, we can assure him that he will find us in front of him in the House, as he will find hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens in the squares and rallyings, who will give the struggles for Macedonia's fairness. Anyone who, ladies and gentlemen, voted 'yes' on Saturday night will actually give the Skopje what they have been struggling for years to get.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Güleka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u134	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are aware of your responsibilities towards the country and history. On Saturday night, everyone will be measured above all with their conscience and recorded in the conscience of their fellow citizens as the one who prevented an appalling agreement or as the one who consented to a major national retreat. The fateful people and the fatal mistakes paid them dearly, ladies and gentlemen, this place. Select whether you will be recorded in history in this case as the fateful people of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Katameros has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this evening I am deeply moved because I am in danger of being my last speech in the House. Since, after the New Democracy proposal, the government is in danger of falling, it is my last speech from this Step. But, well, do you believe that, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Do you think you'll shoot the government like this? And why did you propose? To scare us? You're scaring the world. In fact, you agree with what Ivanov of Skopje says. Imagine having a government in Skopje with Ivanov and a government here with Samara. What would happen? Would they make war? They are very close to the views we heard from the Golden Dawn, that we do not accept anything and that the only solution is war. Because a little, a lot of war they said. Adopting this right-wing agenda do you think it helps you? You know who's helping. What you want to avoid this is what you are achieving with this policy. In fact, from the rapporteurs of the New Democracy, Mr Georgios tried to scare us further. With a narrow and strong voice, like the previous speaker, he threatened us that anyone who voted against the motion of censure, the motion of censure, would be like giving Macedonia. Anyone who votes against the motion of censure is a traitor of the country. Whoever, whoever, who... We're scared! He built his entire speech on this thing only in Macedonian, although in the written text that New Democracy has submitted, it is not just about Macedonian. It refers to other issues. And very well he did, because perhaps someone advised them that "you know, we cannot vote here to fall the government on an issue that is under way". And we don't know if the deal will finally come - I wish it would come to Parliament - since it has to go through some procedures. It must be approved by the Skopje Parliament. There must be a referendum, we must do some things, they must change their constitution, and then they will come here. What, then, are some Members waiting for to support the government? They're waiting to cast the government on a matter that we haven't come to vote on yet? Are they being fooled by idiots? That's why he'll be on time and then we'll see. That is why, because they know that, they put in the motion of censure and various others. They put, if you see the first sentence, that "we were charged by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with two useless memos". They mean the fourth. I say to you that, with the proposal you are making, you are in favour of the fourth memorandum. Why by making the proposal that the government should fall just before the fourth assessment is closed and just before we leave the memorandum, what are you doing? You're going to make a new memorandum. Say that the government falls and you take over, what are you going to do? A new memorandum or are you going to renegotiate, as you're telling us? That's where they laugh. They will renegotiate those who saw them how they negotiated all this time, who not only signed what they were told, but they said: "Opportunity to put other things that we could not go through on our own." Why are you uncomfortable? Who said we were gonna do it anyway? Who was and is it in favour of privatization? Who is in favour of private insurance and the dismantling of the public health system? They also mention in their text that our Government has made heavy pension and wage cuts. Who are they talking to? Those who have made cuts of 40% and 50%, which have reduced GDP by 25%, are talking about cuts, knowing that any cuts have nothing to do with their own period and that they were in a completely different direction for the protection of low-pensioners. That is why, in the low pensions from a limit, there were no cuts and they were made only in high pensions. We're told we promised the public property. And who do they call it? It is said by those who had done so that is precisely why they received from divestment to give it to the loans. And we came and built this superstition, putting in there the TIAD to save the rest of our assets, not to dive, but to make use of it. Not to mention more, because we have all discussed this. I would just mention those things to show that anyone - to use Mr Georgiodta's terminology - is voting in favour of the New Democracy's proposal, is to vote for all this, to come back to those who wanted the memoranda, to continue the memoranda, to sell out the public property, to bring private insurance, to dismantle the health system. That is what all those who vote on the New Democracy motion of censure will vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u137	Mr Leonidas Gregorakos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I have an explanation to my fellow Members of the Left Movement and Ocology Coalition, and I want to tell them that people have the right to change. Alas, if they didn't change. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to forgive me for my reaction earlier, because Mr Phillips has now told me that I have said so. So I think we're clear to each other. I think you're a democratic party, but people with whom I co-exist - I know their story, I know what they did and what they didn't - I'm really sorry when they come here and move my hand. It's at least immoral. And you must themselves, regardless of the political engagement or the marriage that you have made, at least assemble them not to provoke us. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been at the wheel of the country's ruler, promising the sky with the stars. I am here to make an opposition - that is the role of counterpopulation - but say good. Especially those with whom you work with the government with a gun denounced, isotopeic speech, slanders, conspiracies, "sprays", anachronistic ideas and ideas tried to deceive your opponents. You're working with them. You have exploited everything and without any controversy you are trying with them to deal with the problems of the country. But that's not a marriage or a symphony. It's something new that history will write. Avoid you yourselves such as the devil the lavish to throw light on the spectators and unscrupulous aspects of the country's financial derailment and until yesterday you tried Georgios. And you did not stand trial for them, but you tried him because he failed to inform the board of directors. And you sought, of course, with what you did, the favor of younger Karamanlis, who I think is the time at last to speak, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. He owes it to the Greeks. He owes it to those who made him a Prime Minister. He owes it to the Greek people. He owes it to the general ruler of the New Democracy and to his tear, which you said earlier, Mr Güleka. Andreas Papandreou said about the interim agreement: "Macedonia is our soul." And we have to remember. You discovered the notorious theory that the memorials brought the crisis while it happened exactly the opposite, cultivating deliberate illusions to Greek citizensOn time you yelled for the intertwined interests and once you settled in power, you turned into their fanatical servants. Look at the forests and the mountains! You slandered Evangelos Venizelos and PASOK for the PSI. You, however, put the largest lawyers and Europe's biggest lawyers to go to defend the PSI. Although your antimony odor had been high, when the country was found on the tarts and on one foot outside the Eurozone because of you, you served in a firm passion for the memoirs. In fact, you have now come to a point of pride not just because you are implementing memoranda of terms, but because you are already overcoming the surpluses, making them surpluses, taxing hard in the middle and lower order. And all that, because you yourself have been fascinated by authority. However, the worst thing is that you have replaced politics with amoralism and cynicism with the one you are running. You cover him for everything he's done. Your government service shows that you are dominated without principles and values capable of everything. That's why you, while you're a new power, had a new breath, became yourself harmful and dangerous to society and the country. Your leadership, seeing its unprecedented and social and political immersion, makes up everything to salvage what it can, having as a way of life the micropolitics. You have resorted to acts and actions aimed solely at hitting your opponents. One of you recovered from the "NOVARTIS" closets and now you discovered the scorpion, because you thought you'd hit the opposition parties. The agreement, ladies and gentlemen, honestly has positive points and responds to what we wanted to see involved in. But he did not have the elementary preparation. Without any specific plan, without informing the parties, you have entered into an agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. We would like this to be solved with all together with national consensus. But this agreement finds contradictions, questions and inaccuracies. The formula you accepted as the final result of the scop is unresolved. Nothing is given. Everything's under sect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The main thing is that you agreed to give the green light to the neighbouring country, although you know that the agreed between the two Prime Ministers may at any time be destroyed, changed and misinterpreted. The lack of coherence in the settlement of disputes with Skopje is therefore apparent in all the critical parameters. Whether it is inappropriate or inconsistent, the problem that arises if the agreed proposal is adopted, is asymmetricism, which is not eliminated and which will be strengthened further. The issue of language and identity is not secondary issues. In fact, they conceal unspeakable pursuits. Do you not realize that, by accepting the term Macedonian, you are allowed to attempt a founding of a Macedonian nation? Don't you know that language and identity are the vehicles?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Gregoraco, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u140	Everyone took a little more time. Allow me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u141	Look, I cannot impose on you if you yourself do not understand that within the seventeenth you should finish your speech. And I'm not talking to you alone. In the end, people who will be excluded will be protested.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u142	Do not exhaust your rigour on me, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u143	I told you I'm not just talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u144	Do not give Turkey the opportunity to think badly, with what you are going to sign. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the scop has been dealt with and dealt with with with micro-party and communication terrestrials. The differentiation of the government partner, Mr. Kammenos, is directly against government cohesion. If Mr Kammenos remains in the position he has expressed, then the government does not have the declared. This essential issue cannot be overshadowed by the acceptance of the Skopje Agreement. Finally, I stress that our proposal is clear and well-known. The appeal to the polls is a one-way street. The rejection of Mr Mitsotakis' motion of censure does not give you the slightest political breath. The sooner you realize, the better for you and above all for the country. You can't fix anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u145	Mr Karayannides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Just before we close the door in an eight-year period that was - at least in the first five years - catastrophically, the New Democracy decided to use the tool of "White Trade" to sell home! We shall also eat this because that is the Rules of Procedure in the House, and that is how it should be done. With regard to this issue, I would first like to know when you are going - why did you also Ministers and State Secretarys - abroad call these people Skopje or residents, FYROM citizens? Because this is where the Skopje gave and took! I imagine that when you go abroad and talk to a diplomatic or ministerial level, you do not use that language. So let's at least use it here a little bit. Let's go to the notorious 'nationality', which is one of the reasons why you say that we gave something. In the passport - and we all have a passport - on the third line reads "nationality/nationality". The ‘Macedonian/citizen of North Macedonia’ will now apply. Do you know who it is to this day? Is that why you're doing something? When FYROM citizens come to Greece, do you ban them from entering why does it write 'Macedonian'? Have you said something before, all the years used throughout the world, this Macedonian passport, the equivalent of FYROM's citizens, to these citizens why he wrote 'Macedonian'? What have you done all the previous years? Is it now a regime that changes, where it comes from the mob ‘Macedonian’, ‘citizen of North Macedonia’, or is it a citizen of Northern Macedonia? What was it before? What did you do? Are you going to say that? How did these citizens circulate in the world? As far as the second language is concerned, I will read an emblematic version of the right-wing author whose book "Valtu Secrets" is also emblematic, Penelope Delta. It says "It was a alloy of Balkan nationalities then Macedonia. Greeks, Bulgarians, Romanians, Serbians, Albanians, Christians and Muslims lived in a french-mix under the heavy yoke of Turks. Their language was the same, Macedonian, a alloy and that of Slavic and Greek mixed with Turkish words. As in Byzantine times, the populations were so involved that it was difficult to separate Greeks from Bulgarian, the two tribes that dominated. National consciences had the Macedonian only". Will you fire that book? I hope not. Adamantios Korais says in 1824, when we had not yet discovered the suggestions of distrust and Macedonian, etc."The Macedonians proceeded every day to the catalyst of Greece's freedom and the Greeks were slaves to the Macedonians. After the Macedonian dominance they fell under the Romans' rule and end to the Turks." Are we going to burn Adamandio Korai now? The other emblematic for the right-wing party, the one who basically created the Greek nation, Mr. Paparegopoulos, says in 1849: "The Macedonians were a nation of illytic blended with Greeks. In Charonia there was a conflict between Greeks and Macedonians." While at another point it is decided that "The Macedonians were alloys of Illyrians and Greeks and the main characteristic of this alloy was the Greek as being extracted from the language and traditions of them". Are we gonna admit that, or are we gonna throw that on fire too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u147	Greek said, no scum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u148	Apparently, a mixture of Illyons and Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u149	You make that a Macedonian.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u150	Okay, it's okay what we're doing. It'll look like what we're doing at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u151	There's no dialogue. Mr. Voridis, you're the next speaker. You will take the floor after Mr. Karayannides. Mr. Karayannides, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u152	He says another document that was said in the Greek Parliament in 1913: "There is partition of Macedonia to three sovereigns, Serbia then, Bulgaria and Greece." In other words, it has been recognised since that geographical Macedonia has been extended to three countries. In all of this, then, you should say some arguments that stand and say some arguments that you were saying and in 2008, because your proposal when you were a government 'complex name with geographical determination' has not changed. Now, of course, because you're doing the rally tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, you've decided to pet all the backs. Now watch a strange thing. On facebook came a message saying that Constantine Kyranakis changed the time of the event "All in the Constitution for our Macedonia". At least, don't nail yourself. I mean, you're gonna do it for yourself to do it, unbroken and unbroken - all of which is in the party mechanism - don't make it so unravelly, baby. At least try to have something that... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, this is not the case. There's a lot of fuss over here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Cryazides, please. Respect the speaker. Mercy! After all, I would ask Mr. Hatzidakis very much to give an opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u154	But he hasn't stopped talking, seven minutes talking underneath he's muttering. That's how he perceives dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u155	Let me say two words, Mr. Karayannides, and say two words. Mr. Hatzidakis, please, thank your colleagues very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u156	It's not Mr. Hatzidakis, no, no. Mr. Hatzidakis hasn't opened his mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u157	No, I'm talking personally. Here you go, Mr. Karayannides, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u158	If we don't talk about careless and unbroken, this thing you invest in tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and as long as it goes, you think it'll take you very far - which won't take you - is this thing you're trying to do. I'll close with a question. In 1992-1994 the PASOK Government, on the one hand, and the New Democracy Government, on the other, sent for negotiation, when speaking about languages in the UN, a representative? I'm asking you, 'cause tomorrow they'll call you by name. I've been asking you this from today to know. In 1992 and 1994, did you, the proud Greeks, send negotiators to negotiate the language of FYROM to the UN?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u159	Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the colleague who just arrived from Stepa was revealing, because that was what was the spirit of government negotiation, the argument of the Macedonians in detail in the Greek Parliament. We get it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And when that is what you say - I wanted to hear Mr Amanatidis's opinion - what exactly a negotiating effect to bring, since, as the honourable Member has said, it is still a good thing that the 'North Macedonia' has also been put into place. Because we went to 'go straight'. All right, all right, all Be well! Congratulations to Kotzia! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In this respect something was put in, "North Macedonia".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u161	Please calm down! Mr. Voridis, go on, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u163	The question is rhetorical, though. You don't need an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u164	Minister, if you want to answer, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u165	Because Mr. Voridis asked me a question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u166	As you feel. I accept vacations, as long as they're not taken away from my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u167	No, the Bureau does not allow the holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u168	On this condition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u169	You're welcome, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u170	So I would like to make one speech - because I hear something, Mr President - to the Bureau and Mr Voutsi. We have now agreed that the debate will take place by 12 o'clock Saturday night. We agreed here. I do not imagine - because you are now getting messages about the mobilisations - that you will change the time of the meeting. Plenary has already decided. Good. It's important that we know that. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deal with the content of the agreement, because it is, as far as the major and major issues are concerned, which essentially confer rights and sensitivities on our colleagues. However, I would like to address an argument that we will hear from the missing, because they have been lost in the debate. On the issue of the major issue - that is, what? - that this government which is going to sign this agreement - that is what we are discussing today - which is about Macedonia, the sensitive people are missing. But be careful. What will they come to tell you? What will the sensitive ones come to tell you? They're not in this subtle class. We've heard the opinion, it's the others. But will these people here come to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, why would this come to the House to be voted on, why would it come to the House to approve what he wants to sign if his Government, Mr. Tsipras, stands in the next few days? Why would he come here? We have heard it from a colleague who said, but well, since we are now in a process. What process? An agreement will be signed, and the agreement is taking steps. What steps does the deal take? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't be in a hurry. He is also a brilliant colleague - a legal colleague, I say - Mr Janakopoulos, who made a statement saying: I do not understand international law. Here all the time, I'm legally told that something I don't understand. Finally, since I understand that, at least that. But, he says, there are no legal consequences of this agreement. And we will hear that, after all, why would she come here to approve it? He'll be here after it's over. That's right. So, what's it gonna be? Let us say the steps provided for in the agreement: the Scottish Parliament will be voting. There can be a referendum. The constitutional amendments envisaged will also be made and will then come here for ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u171	You don't want it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u172	Have a seat, Mr. Mada. Question: While all this has been done, will it have started accession negotiations? Sure. Both the European Union and NATO. First question to the people here. Is the opening of accession negotiations not a legal consequence, or does it seem to me? Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Is the referendum that will take place there, the adoption by their parliament is a legal consequence or is it not? It is. Third question. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Have a seat. It's none of your business. That's what it's all about. Do you know why this is about them? Because they say they don't want the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u173	Who are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u174	The ANELs. They don't want the deal. They don't want the result. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But I'm showing the empty room here. What am I supposed to do now? Where do you want me to show? That's the direction I'm showing. I'll call it contagious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u175	What's going to happen, it's going to go on for a long time, Mr. Manda? Come on. Please. Calm down. Let the speaker finish. Please. It's at the expense of the next speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u176	So I ask, is that not all legal consequences? I'm going to the final question. So now what do the wicked mean here? They mean that the Skopje will have voted in their parliament, there will have been a referendum that will have approved it, constitutional changes will have been made, and they will come here for ratification to vote against it, so they will be changed again. That's what they mean. They're going back to get their regiment the previous name. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Who are you kidding? Who are you kidding? This process, which begins now, is essentially a one-way process, without any possibility of overturning. That is why I am going to address anyone who does not want this agreement and thinks it bad. To be explained. It's none of your business. You'd bring an even worse deal if you could. Pressed by the world, you brought her. But those who consider it bad, and I am talking about the ANE and Mr Kammenos, when they will come here on Saturday to know the following: with their vote they hold the pen of Mr Kotzia and Mr Tsipras to sign this agreement, which will not be overturned. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Anyone who does not want to vote for this government falling now. That's what they have to decide, that's what they're doing, that's their responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u177	Mr Ursouzidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, may I reply to Mr Voridis, since he has been mentioned?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u179	I gave the floor now to Mr Ursouzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u180	Okay. After Mr Ursuzides, I'd like you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Ursuzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, today we have been discussing a matter that has been arousing our country for so many years. The peoples of Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are facing a historic moment at the moment of destiny, which is no more than peaceful coexistence and cooperation. The peoples define their fates, not the fate of the peoples. The removal, for decades, of one - within introductory or out-of-date - is the best option for the benefit of the two peoples and not just. The Western Balkans are taking a decisive step towards stability and cooperation. Societies are ready to give hands and remove every obstacle that divides them, which captures them in dead-end policies. Politicians must respect the will of the overwhelming majority of the two peoples. The conclusion of the long-term effort to resolve the issue must be fair and mutually acceptable. There must be neither victorious nor defeated. The law of coercion, the death penalty, can't afford time. We must live with our neighbours peacefully and form a framework of understanding and cooperation that can withstand time. We owe it to the next generations. Our long history that comes from ancient Greek culture, the Greek world, is not at stake by anyone, nor can it be challenged by the civilized world. Philip II, this great man of Macedonia, was born in 382 B.C.E. and died in 336 B.C.E. Alexander the Great succeeded him, who at all lengths and backs of the ancient world carried the most Greek thing that we had, our civilization, and the people are grateful. And when they refer to Iscander, they do it with great respect. The story of our neighbors has also been recorded by historians and is respected. It dates back to our region from 7th C.E. Century, that is about 1,100 years later. Because we have a complex name, which will apply to everyone and which will be reflected in the constitution of the neighbouring country, with all the doubts about insulating, this is being done with the agreement. It is a complex name with geographical identification as it emerged, which will put things in the right place, in their true dimension. This is reflected in the agreement which is the product of conscientious scientists who have devoted themselves to and worked hard to reach a mutually acceptable agreement. I feel the need to thank them for that for both sides, because obviously the neighbors have also worked. We believe at last that we are on the right track and close to understanding and mutual understanding which is the epitome of prosperity between the two peoples. With reference to the Greek citizens who are watching, I would like to say that this Step has passed too many honestly prosperous politicians. So I come with great attention to what I say in this Step, with a full feeling and conviction that the blessed time has finally come to lift what separates us and to show what unites us with our northern neighbours on the basis of a fair and fair agreement. This should, of course, be done in a formal process and not on the occasion of a motion of censure. It's okay. History records relentless and populists, such as the one I succeeded in Step and the responsible representatives of the Greek people of both countries. Addressing the northern neighbours, I would like to convey a message in their own language, in the southern Slavic, as clearly defined in the agreement. ‘Scupi sasedni, skupi Priateli, ot Republica Severna Makedonija kato predvizda dozovora vreme e da ostavim na zat vsitsko onova koeto ni razdelia, I da preminem vzaimnoto pazbiratelstvo, satrydnitsestvo i liubov’. This in Greek, in the ancient Greek Macedonian language will say: “Dear neighbors, as we agreed with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, it is time to leave behind all that we were divorced and crossed into mutual understanding, cooperation and love. Together in the future." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u183	Thank you for the time economy, too. Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Voridis, thank you for making it clear. You've probably been hurt by what I said that if we change our positions, as it is, and change the names, it'll be the same V with R and Mr. Mitsotakis' position. However, you must decide this: is this your last position, namely the New Democracy? So, first the deal will be ratified here and then everything else will be done? If that is your position, then you will have to answer Mr Koumoutsako, who said on 19 May: "It is very important that, before we reach a ratification process, the Skopje Constitution has changed." Decide which position you will defend at this hour and when the next hour rediscovers the position, see you then. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. Mr. Cassidy has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, I would like to say something in the sense of misinterpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u187	Now don't get into this process. Please. I've given the floor. As soon as the speaker's finished. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u188	There are many historical references and, in fact, earlier, an unscrupulous Minister of SYRIZA caught in his mouth Captain Kotta, the Macedonianman, who specializes in taking the heads of the comedy ones. This was the specialty of Captain Kotta, who was, in fact, operating in the Prespes region. If this Macedonian man lived today and Zaev came to claim Greek history, then with very simple actions he would take his head and throw him into the lakes head. This is Captain Kottas. These are the Greek Macedonians. He may have been a slavovo, because half of the 19th century had been violently imposed on the region by language escapism. When he was arrested by the Turks, but also when Mitre Vlach and the comedians burned his house to destroy his family, and German Karavangelis tried to make a deal with the Turks to save Captain Kotta's life and asked him to join the Turkish army, he refused and gave his life for Greece. He asked a Greek priest to communize him at the end and at that time in time, he smashed his bonds and escaped within the Strait of the Monastery. It became the entire mobilisation of the Turkish army to arrest him again and when they got him up on the scaffolding, he kicked the footstep and shouted "Have Ellas" in the slavics. This was a Greek soul immortal, which today with all the heroes, which is a bloody river in time, has written in history in golden Greek letters the word "Macedonia". On the government side we see a convicting Prime Minister going out to ERT and when they asked him the reasonable question "After you're a democrat, why don't you vote?" - the entire Greek people ask - 'a 90% in favour of 'no' in betrayal'? Tsipras replied: 'I am not making a referendum, because this is not about the Greeks, it is about the Skopje'. The name, he says, of Macedonia is not about the Greeks. This name concerns the Greeks, it is not about you, because you are no longer Greek. You have left it to such an extent that you are now abducted communists and gangbangers. You're not even government. You have lost the declaring words of Kammenos, who says 'I do not want, I do not vote, I do not do'. With these ridiculousities you have lost the declared and now you are an anti-parliamentary gang and not a government. Of course, the position of the Golden Dawn against this slogan - because a slogan you are - is that there will of course be exemplary punishment in the future. I have said and punished myself with a fine and an expulsion from the House. In this betrayal, however, the criminal law and the Constitution provide punishment for those who deliver the sanctuary and the loyals of Greece to the suburban enemy of Hellenism. As far as the New Democracy is concerned, of course - because I am always fair - let the Macedonians not be present today. From Bucharest they have named "Macedonia", which, of course, Gruevski refused the deal then, and that is why Skopje did not enter NATO. VMRO was the one that blocked Bucharest. The veto was from the Skopje and not from the New Democracy. And Kumucascus said - I was listening to him on television - that we would be obliged to comply with this agreement. If Mitsotakis believed that something good could come for Greece, he would come to this Step and send a letter to NATO and he would say that if he took over, New Democracy would never ratify Macedonia's NATO membership and end it. You don't do that, you say it yourself. The government keeps up, the national income is continuous. I shall refer to history again. Strabon has solved this issue for two thousand years with "Estin und Greece and Macedonia". Macedonia is, of course, a pure Greek case, much earlier, many years before Strabon, from Homer, from sewing I' and verse 106 "an old Macedonian leaf of leaves", where it refers to the leaves of high leukas, because "Macedonia", of which "Macedon", length in donor, is the highest. Macedonia is the land of the highest men. In mythology Macedon was the son of Lycaona, who was the son of Pelasgou, who was the first Greek to emerge from the land of Arcadia. Of course, if this whole vocabulary is mentioned to the Skopje, they want to use the word "Macedonia", which for them is a Chinese word. It has nothing to do with the Slavic language, which came in the 6th century to the wider region, as Kiro Gligorov himself had confessed. "We are Slavs, we have come to the area in the 6th century, we have absolutely nothing to do with Alexander." And how do they have to do with Alexander? Alexander the Great, Alexander the I, who was very great Greek, who despite the frustration, despite the occupation of Macedonia by the Persian army, had preceded the assassination of representatives of the Persians, who had approached the Macedonian court, and then carried out spying in favour of the Greeks and in the battle of the Thermopoils. For this reason, and in the Olympic Games of 504 B.C., the Greeks considered him to be a genuine Greek Argyos, a descendant of the house of the Thymenids. And of course the name of Alexander the Great is made up of the "leave" plus "union", the one who persecuted the men, as he did in all the battles, as in the famous Malles battle, when he alone invaded into the enemy's fortress and alone faced thousands of opponents, killed the king of Mallons, accepted an arrow in the lung, rescued him last minute by Pykesta with the shield of Achilles and when the generals competed with the simple soldiers who would save the king and when everyone thought Alexander was dead, they executed all the captives of the country of Mallon, assuming that they had killed Alexander. These are the previous speakers on the SYRIZA side who spoke about Greek culture, who spread to the depths of the east by the Greek Macedonians. Of course the Greek civilization was spread, but it was not spread with flowers, love and such slogans, but with the power of the weapons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I heard Kotzia on television saying "we have avoided the danger of skepticism with this agreement". So we were threatened by Skopje? What exactly? Aircraft, tanks and divisions? The most unscrupulous of the Haemos peninsula by military means cannot threaten Greece. And if there was a national government in Greece and saw such a threat, it could send two F16s over the city of Skopje, over Tetovo, to circle over the Monastery, which in 1912 was a Greek city and would have been liberated if Constantine hadn't turned the army to Thessaloniki...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u189	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u190	I'll be done. Faced with this infamous agreement, which unleashes the sanctuaries and loyalties of Greece, which is a disaster for our country, Golden Dawn has another counterproposal. Golden Dawn has another plan. Implementation of the Greek veto for any progress of the Skopje talks with NATO or the European Union. To allow centrifuges within Macedonia to manifest themselves. To enable the Slavs and the Albanians, who are both unwilling to kill each other, to become a civil war in Skopje and then Greece as a guarantor to rule over this region. This is the position of the Golden Dawn. The Greek nationalism is gigantic with the rallys, gigantic with the massive open-ended gatherings, it will be gigantic tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, out of the House. When Greek nationalism dominates, then we will speak in other terms with all those who betray Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u191	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Voridis, what is the Minister's misinterpretation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna need a minute to explain what the misinterpretation is. Mr Amanatidis said that I had suggested that ratification of the agreement should come first. I never said that. What I said and what Mr Kumouchakos said is that it must not be done. What I said and I insist - and that you must answer - is that this agreement, once it has been signed now, produces legal consequences that lead inevitably and inevitably to a binding result and should therefore have been authorised to sign this agreement without this authorisation being ratified. Because Mr. Friend will come and tell me "what authorization" that you have answered, when Mr. Tsipras arrived in 2015 and asked Parliament for permission to negotiate after the famous referendum how to do "no" "yes". You're here then and you're authorized. You are not coming now to ask for this mandate for this very critical agreement, which - I stress it again - is not ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u194	Good. Mr. Spartinos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Tsipras - Zaev agreement was announced, some people rushed to say that it was the right time, because the bill was being discussed at the time, to get the government out of the debate on the Multi-Project and to turn the public's interest elsewhere. However, that is what New Democracy, at least, and some of the paranormals of the New Democracy, proved to have done in the debate on the plan. They stopped talking about the bill while they knew they would follow a debate on the agreement and then talk about the agreement at that time. Clearly, they understood that the fires with which they were referring to the plan for non-cleaning exit, for new memoranda, for new measures, for the new exclusion of the country from the markets, were not a convenient discussion to continue with and they had to hide their inability to respond to the government's challenge to discuss seriously the next day. With a sharp turn in the roots of the most primitive, darkest tradition of the conservative party, the one that its serious leaders had previously tried to enjoy with greater or less success, they changed the subject matter and went to the easy extreme right overpatriotic and by some I will say patriot arguments. So the right, in its well-known ancient court, to erase within a few weeks, after successive self-reviews of its positions, a multi-year course that has been drawn up by its former leaders towards an honest and sustainable solution to relations with the northern neighbours, but at the same time also a course of stabilisation of the New Democracy in the area of Central Right by that of the dark right. It seems that the extreme right-wing group in the leadership of the New Democracy has convinced its President that today's fashion is not central right-wing, but an extreme right-wing group of political figures inspired by the atrocities of nationalism, xenophobia, racism, national isolation, forgetting that in countries where this fashion has passed, conservative faction is usually not uniform, but that is about them. With this line, therefore, the New Democracy began to look at the audience of the Golden Dawn, as it has long seen its inability to draw votes from the rest of society, entering a specific, not very covered, but dangerous competition with it, with the Golden Dawn. Personally, thinking of all this, I also have a more general question: How crucial a role can the human factor play at critical times that coincide with political changes? In this respect, how important it may have been that Mr Samaras never had his defeat from SYRIZA and Tsipras, so that he does not give up the prime minister himself, when he is known to the world that the political leaders of the huge calibre, from all political groups, who would be disrespectful to move on to comparisons, have accepted their defeat with dignity. And if this personal dimension of things has really played a decisive role in the turn of the New Democracy, what conclusions can one draw on this party, its political profile, its leadership and its leader? I don't think these questions are just my questions. From what we read in the media, from what we see and hear in Parliament's corridors, as sometimes these are not whispered, but are said loudly, these questions circulate within the New Democracy. So it's a motion of censure. Who is Mr. Mitsotakis most distrusting to? To the government, because it is supposedly dangerous and endemic, or is it in his party, to his executives who are afflicted with the unity of his party? Has he thought that he should be skeptical and perhaps more against those who have imposed the extreme right turn on him? Are they waiting for him at the next turn? I don't think it would be pointless to think about that, too. The government was accused of bringing the agreement with the ultimate aim of creating problems in the unity of the New Democracy. But if the New Democracy had a firm and firm position on this issue, the one we know from 2008 onwards, would there have been a question of unity? Or do they mean that the country should wait for the New Democracy to make its point first and then venture to solve a long-standing thorn in foreign policy and diplomacy? So that is why Mr Mitsotakis suggested at some point, among other things, that the matter be referred back to the future, even though he even considers that the conditions were very favourable to his solution today? I hope you will forgive us, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, for not waiting another twenty-six years to end up with what you want, who you are and where you want to pull.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Spartin, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u197	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, the people invited us to the government, because society had fallen to the fore, and we accepted the mandate to take the country out of the toughest, to take it out of the memorials, to take it out of the period of the interactive, the client state, the 'SIEMENS' scandal, the 'NOVARTIS', from the development of offshore and to resolve the old thorn of relations with FYROM within a multi-level foreign policy. We didn't scare or scare, we go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u198	Come on, Mr. Spartan. We've been to eight minutes. Please take no time from next speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u199	This course will not be blocked by professionals of patriotism and offshore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u200	Mr Harakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we warned in 2015 that the famous commemorative populists will become fatal for the country, unfortunately, we were not believed. And today, after three lost years in the economy, which cost us two memorials and poorness of the Greeks, we are at risk of irreversible, adverse consequences on our national issues. Unfortunately, they are treated in the same irresponsible, turbulent and anti-democratic way by people who do not give fives for Greek history, who do the carpets of third parties in order to gain the credit from those who formerly devoured, who support their politics in internal division and their political speech in misleading and lying. After months of diplomacy in the crypt, with selective leaks and abundant theatres, we reached the formal announcement of the agreement with Skopje, an agreement that was presented as a great success for which you were calling us to be proud, a trick agreement for our national interests, which is becoming more painful as we learn details at all levels, in essence, in its management, in its consequences. It is a nationally harmful agreement where Greece gives almost everything to get some asterisks and footnotes as sex of figs for those who celebrate without ahold. Of course, what better we could expect from a government which has been with ministers and MPs who have been asking for Macedonia to be recognized for years. First of all, actually. The titles for Severna Makedonija, for the Slavic name erga omnes, which in the course become northern Macedonia in English and are followed by a nationality that is Macedonian, not even north-eastern, Macedonian. Answer directly: Who else - because you are smuggling various inaccuracies - what Prime Minister, what government spoke of Macedonian ethnicity in the past? Here is the core of danger from the neighbouring state, and that is what you are giving the heart light to today. I heard a colleague earlier - I do not see him in the Chamber and I will not name him - who tried to tell us that the ancient Macedonians were not purely Greek. I did not understand how he tried to connect these ancient Macedonians, who, according to him, are not purely ancient Greek sex, to the current Skopje inhabitants, when their own nation ruler Kiro Gligorov confesss that they came to the area in the 6th century and have nothing to do with Alexander. Don't be king-in-law and Skopje! You are always giving up, like boxers that are in our national laws, and Macedonian language, with some footnotes that no one takes, of course, into consideration. What remains is a state called Macedonia, inhabited by Macedonians speaking Macedonian. And what will the Greek Macedonians say? Or rather what will be allowed to be said? South-Macedonians? If that's called success, how, then would failure be termed? You say, of course, that we saved Alexander the Great, but Greek Macedonia does not stop in Hellenistic times, it continues uninterruptedly in Roman and Byzantine times and, of course, in Turkish domination. Already Mr. Zaev is on his way to the legacy of Cyril and Methodium, the two Greek Thessalonian lighters of the Slavs. But we don't have to worry. Article 8 mentions a bilateral panel of experts to deal with historical, archaeological and educational issues, which will examine the books of both countries in order to obtain what is considered as an arrogatory. Therefore, the recognised Macedonian Macedonians will reasonably take out of our school books and Cyril and Methodius and other Macedonians that we make the mistake of teaching them to our children, while we are, of course, giving battles back to the Macedonian bronze. Of course, you know that what you bring is at the opposite foot of the feelings of the Greek people. It is an agreement that will never be accepted by the Greek people and has shown it with its great participation in the old rally. But the Prime Minister now comes out with a tone of a thousand cardinals and says: 'I don't care about the rallys', which he calls deceptive 'crowds'. The people who had raised the sidewalk at the highest political value today show how they truly respect the people. But it is enough to avoid bringing the agreement to the House, to prove that your Government is relying on clay feet with a partner who has broken the brakes of reason, which in 2014 asked for the people's vote, to prevent the Syrians from negotiating for Macedonian and now goes out with ridiculous excuses and still has the courage to wear patriotic chlamydia, while Macedonia's name is delivered! So patriot, so trustworthy, so liberated. Let those who still follow him rejoice. And because you cannot convince anyone with your "successes", you are looking for a board of salvation in the distortions of the past. You are trying to compare the national defeat that you have achieved with the proud 'no' of Costas Karamanlis in Bucharest. And then, now, there were interventions outside. But the political size of the leaders is unfortunately different for the country, because no matter what you say, neither a Macedonian nation nor a Macedonian language has been recognised, nor has it been provided with procedures for the secret integration of Skopje into NATO and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, history will judge us all for our choices. You have decided to be recorded in the darkest colors. That's your right. But it is not your right to drag the Greek people into a humiliating agreement with long-term consequences. We will stand against all our forces, knowing that this is the will of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. I should like to close, Mr President, by calling on the Members of the Co-Population and, in particular, the Members of Northern Greece. Do not authorize by your vote Mr Tsipras to sign the national harmful agreement with Skopje. Stand to the height of the circumstances. Listen to your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u202	Mr Famelos, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has today tabled a motion of censure against the Government, one day after the initial agreement reached with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, an agreement which has overshadowed the whole of the world, governments, institutions, media with a headline: 'Macedonia is changing name'. What is the truth about the Civic Opposition and, in particular, Mr Mitsotakis? Definitely, she wants her constitutional name not to change, she certainly wants her neighbour's own country to change Constitution, she certainly wants the suppressive claims against Greece and the Greeks not to be eradicated. I'm sure he wants the nationalist voice of VMRO, Ivanov, Gruevski to be majorityd. I'm sure he wants instability to prevail. I'm sure he wants to let foreign forces make politics at our northern border and not Greece. But what else does it want to work? He wants to question, at the same time, the effort made by the Greeks together with the government of SYRIZA, the ANELs and the Greens over the last three years. Mr. Chiaras was clear. The motion of censure, he said, concerns all our policy. He asked us to take responsibility for the whole policy. You see, they didn't come up in parentheses. You didn't get the licensed funds from February 2015. You didn't get the blackmail of the troika internal and external at that time. They didn't get the cutter out. They didn't get the surplus. As they will not get all these lies, which they feed through their canals Greeks, on pension cuts, on new taxes and on new austerity. Because everything is lies and nothing has been proved. And they try to stop the course for a better tomorrow with the top parliamentary tool. Well, everyone knows it well and our country knows it. We take all the responsibility. Others hid behind responsibility at the end of 2014. We take all responsibility, as the Left always does, as Kazantzakis protects. We love responsibility because we love our country, we love our children, we love the future of our country. We have honoured and honoured our commitments. What has happened these years? Greece restored credibility towards Europeans and all institutions. So, next August finally ends the Memorial. Did you hear that, Mr. Hatzidakis? It finalizes the memorandum that you have forced our country to enter, bankruptcy our homeland, failing production. It concludes the memorandum restricting national and popular sovereignty in Greece. And that's what this government has achieved. And that makes you sad. That's why you made a motion of censure. We've moved on to difficult reforms, though, fair. We have shown with works that Greece can go forward. Greece now has a development plan. He hasn't had one so far. It has a different policy than the array, development, fake, bubble, all post-multiple policies. With the best performance in industry, production, exports, tourism, accepted by our hardest critics. A growth together with producers, together with workers, with real product and real work. With a record of employment in the last three months. Development that is not air growth. It is the first in the NSRF, the first in the Yunker Packet, as the President of the Commission has said it from here in the National Parliament. Disprove him, if you can! Get out and disprove Mr. Juncker. In three years, we've done things that haven't been forty years. We dared to do things. We have restored Greece's role in Europe and in the Mediterranean and in the progressive debate on another Europe. With development conferences across the country, implementing and not announcing another model of development. With real, democratic planning, sometimes announced by some, but only the Greeks played the Greeks' money on the Stock Exchange. We put the environment at the centre. We are now talking about sustainable development in Greece, making areas that were constitutional checks, but were kept in the drawers of MPs and ministers, with their choice, for for forty years. We now have a strategy for the circular economy. We have a productive model that we are discussing and implementing, truly sustainable and sustainable. With real recycling, with a new law on recycling, doubling resources, with works to the municipalities, the citizens, by sorting at the source, with green points, closing 90% of the landfills that only fined our country. These are the'small-hearted's. They had three hundred dumps in Greece in 2014. Is that Europe's policy? Is that what you've wanted for so many years? At the same time, we have completed the country's obligations on nature and biodiversity. We demarcated our areas, covering national interests that you left in both areas of national importance and, at the same time, created institutions in Greece to have the environment, link to the local product and evaluation. We have acquired modern water planning, with a delay of six years and just before the European Court of Justice was convicted. We're perfecting the forest maps you've had forty years in the drawers. In one year we have ratified 32%, with the support of farmers, with provision for settlement. We give all towns free space to citizens, as we did at Tritsi Park, to the former "Pavlou Mela" Camp, to the former Camp "Kotra", as we now do at Wade. We are implementing 2,2 billion in projects for liquid and solid waste and developing a new innovative environmental diplomacy, for the first time taking over Greece's objectives and the Protocol and the Paris Agreement, while at the same time ensuring what was missing for so many years, a special fund for the regions that have produced energy for all of Greece. Because you'd forgotten both Ptolemais and Megalopolis and Amyntheus. Beyond the change in the development model - those who want to stop with the motion of censure and those who may support it, those who vote for it, because they are not just responsibilities, and those who support the motion of censure - this government puts an end to corruption. The fight against corruption and the restoration of the rule of law do not only concern the political scene, it also concerns production. Because we didn't all have access to the tools of growth and production, not all the entrepreneurs. The involvement and association of power parties has been revealed for the last 40 years, the old two-partyism with the channels, the media and the judiciary. Revealed to whom you were giving "air" loans and saddened you. You want to stop it! They were parties and media. They still owe 400 million parties of bilateralism and don't answer how much they'll pay. The motion of censure was missing! What was revealed at the same time, though? The loans of the "KERYKA CHANIA", the "best biographic of Greece" and the biggest battery probably, were revealed, the relationship of Marvas with offshore, where the time you had lost his relationship with logic. But also the health complex that cost "NOVARTIS" 23 billion and CEDEFOP 23 billion. That is what they want to stop with the motion of censure. What, though, did the other New Democracy rapporteur say to the Commission on the break-up of the scandals in health? Mr Georgiodakis has asked that the investigation into CEDEFOP scandals should not be continued by the Committee of Inquiry. Isn't that right, Minister? How much clearer can man say? Do you know how many people were fed by CDC? How do they expect the people to believe what they say when in this House they admit they are in strife and corruption? New Democracy is also lying to national issues, as both its rapporteurs have said. He doesn't respect the people. He wants him uninformed, he wants him unintelligible to take advantage of him, to cover crimes against the people against work, against our country, which he has been doing for years with the partners of the local and foreign world. And when the people raise their heads, they have other tools to limit access to knowledge and vindication. He used to have violence and fraud. It now has the complexion, the channels, the terrorism, the blackmail. Today she draws another gun from her patronage, known on the far right, darkness and populism, and takes Greece back. Because it is your ideological choice for Greece to go back while going forward. In all this, the government has come to add the basis for the solution to a problem that delays Northern Greece and the whole of our country at least 25 years, not to say seventy. Let's get this straight. Who Greek wanted to have this conversation about the name of Macedonia? What Greek wanted to question the Greekness of the term Macedonia? Who wanted to have an issue open and dangerous at the northern border? No one and much more of us who didn't create it. Why did you create it, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and to some extent the PASOK governments also participated in it. That's the real problem. Our country is not invited to design on white paper. We have to solve a problem that your own policy has created. Because you failed in 1992, when you betrayed your own party and Mr Samaras threw your own government, when there were still no national functions at the northern border, there was no constitution, there were no aluterism, there were no statues of Alexander the Great, there were no Mr. Gruevski, tensions and defeats. Even the European Court of Justice has lost to FYROM and you do not say so. You have failed in the easy, but important for our national issues. We were invited to succeed in the difficult. And that's what we do because our country needs it. Because if we do not resolve this, someone must apologize for what will happen to our children if there is to be an abscess at the northern border, where other forces are playing to the detriment of Greece's interests. So the question is not whether our government will resolve it. The question is whether Greece will solve it, gentlemen. As you deal with micro-participation, it seems that you are also making micro-policy on national issues. Because in politics you are proved to be small. That is what northern Greece needs to know, to know the truth, that the New Democracy wants to throw the government down - it will not succeed - because it wants to leave an open problem at the border. Of course, Northern Greece must know something more. All the MPs and mayors and republics who go to the rally lie to the people of Macedonia. Because they were the same members of the Kostas Karamanlis Parliamentary Group who tabled the proposal for a complex name Erga omnes in Bucharest. Now they lie to the Greek people. They're lying to the Macedonians. All of these were in the Samara - Venizelos government - which signed the motion of distrust - who sent Mr Venizelos to the UN to say about erga omnes, a complex name geographically defined within the UN Step. And now they're lying. The history of the Macedonian is recorded. The problem is written. Since 1959, with positions on the Macedonian language of Averov or with the legislative decree recognising the Republic of Macedonia in 1959 or 1977 with UN resolutions. But what have you done since the betrayal of Samaras against the New Democracy? In 1993, China and Japan, in 1996 Serbia, in 1998 50% of the UN countries recognized the neighbouring country by the name of Macedonia. In 2004 the United States of America, in 2007 Canada, when it had already reached 61% of the UN members, in 2011, a hundred and twenty-nine countries and today a hundred nine countries recognise neighbors as Macedonia, of course, we do not. One hundred and forty-nine countries is the result of your own policy, your own negotiation. The essence of the problem is that we have to resolve this problem today. We are all responsible for resolving that 75% of the planet recognises them as Macedonia and 25% as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. That's the truth about the composite name. And the Macedonians want that, to get the name back, to get back the question of the Greekness of the term Macedonia, which you created and don't play ostrichs because this is the reality in the international scene. Now thankfully, to be honest, we have with us the international community, which claims that all forty-nine countries will agree to change their name. Because we win back something that Greece didn't have and that government wins, and it's shameful your misery, that Greece should want to do back in history. We cannot stay behind, however, in the problems. Why hide that what we are gaining today, because Greece is more powerful in international negotiations and this government has won it. What eye today is Greece's new most powerful position? The New Democracy. Why? For its political executives, modern Macedonian leaders, maintained political offices making secrets at the OSH offices. These are the modern Macedonians who want honesty and justice in Macedonia and want its national interests. At the same time, it is impossible for the same castings in Greece to decide what Parliament will do in the negotiations today when this government won first to revise the Constitution, first to vote in the neighbouring country and then to place the Greek Parliament. And that's what we earned. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] The conclusion of this debate, ladies and gentlemen, can provide a source of creativity and calm in northern Greece as well. We are not looking for winners and losers in this agreement, both peoples will be won. This is the essence of international diplomacy and the rest are cannons, weapons, blood and war. The big issues need to be solved by this society that can be solved. Strong society can solve problems. Impossible, your own policy cannot solve problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u204	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u205	It would be a criminal mistake to have an unresolved issue - and I conclude, Mr President - so that you could have little benefit. Because the constitutional review that we won is more than the national line you've had so far, it's over the erga omnes under the complex geographical name. Why are you hiding that? And add more like the change of the name of the Church, its connection to the Patriarchate, the change of streets, airports, the replacement of statues. That is to say, all the politicians who have failed to resolve the issue of the name are now asking for Greece not to win them. If we don't claim a solution, we'll leave a problem at the northern border.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u206	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u207	I shall conclude, Mr President. The scientific, productive and commercial community of Thessaloniki wants to open the borders, work, live together with the neighbouring country. When the matter comes to Parliament to be voted on, they must answer: Now that we are winning more of you who have asked for less, why do you not vote on it? A question arises, ladies and gentlemen, and I shall end: What is Mr Mitsotakis after all? Is it the nightmare for Greece's interests, or is he just a rabbit for Mr. Samaras? It doesn't matter why this extreme right-wing group, now dominated by the New Democracy, knows that because it doesn't come out of the scenario, they should create conditions of political anomaly and a new division. That's what they'll try to do. They're ruthless, and that's why they're dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u208	How long he'll be talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u209	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u210	The proposal for distrust aims to prevent the break-up of the New Democracy because guests are eaten today with the owners and landlords. But it's too late. Watch out at night trails where you walk because you are in danger of meeting with Golden Dawn. We have chosen the day to progress work, to prepare work, to work, to justice. This is all our policy. How would you know about that? Have you ever worked? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u211	Minister, as the previous speaker, Mr Lambroulis, who was chairing, has said, we have asked you to keep the time, because, if I am not mistaken, the Government has decided by the Conference of Presidents that it should end at midnight. If you, the government, do you not try to keep at least the time, how will we, as the Bureau, be able to force it on the side of the New Democracy, who want to speak until 12 o'clock at night? Please help in times. Another thing we have said and will repeat it from the Bureau: whoever is not here, is replaced, otherwise it will be read and deleted and will not be able to speak tomorrow or tomorrow. So within a short time, the list will be distributed, because there are too many changes following this announcement. Please be in a position to be here all the Members until 1.30', which will last tonight's plenary to be able to speak as much as possible. The number of those who will speak depends on you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Katsikis is next. Are you erasing him?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u213	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Katsikis is next. Will it be erased?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u215	Can I tell you something? Mr. Katsikis, if he's replaced by someone else, he's got holes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u216	Now it's Mr. Katsikis. Will it be deleted yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u217	Don't worry, the list will be distributed. Mr. Kegeroglu, Mr. Katsikis has already said he will speak tomorrow or tomorrow. So it's not erased...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u218	The others will erase them...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u219	What replacement? Mr. Kegeroglu, don't yell. Tomorrow there are circles in which there are vacant posts for the Independent Greeks. In these positions, Mr Katsikis or each of his parties will be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u220	Rusfetti, you're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u221	Whoever's not here from the list to be distributed to you. I'm very clear about what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u222	Bouga...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u223	There's no laundry. Mr. Koukoutsis, come talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u224	I'll prove it to you in a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't shout, we won't be afraid of you. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u226	Do your job right!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u227	We're not afraid of your voices!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u228	Don't do cowboys, please. Please don't do too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u229	I don't do any laundry! Mr. Koukoutsis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. The initiative to solve the sceptic problem is certainly a clear sign that it belongs to the external factor. This is not our problem, but it is a problem for our Albanian neighbours and basically our homeland is being dragged into the negotiating table, with a people without cultural heritage, a people who are trespassed and a wrestler of historical truth. Any complex name containing the term "Macedonia" will be swallowed in the near future. At one time the American agent by mouth of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Stetinus in 1944 had stressed that the use of the name "Macedonia" in southern Yugoslavia is a pretext of aggressive action against Greece. But then, you see, we were at the beginning of the Cold War. Delivering Macedonia's name to the Skopje is not a matter of today's government, it is not a matter of today's Parliament, it is not even a matter of today's Greek people. Is it realistic to say in this Chamber that there are pressures, in the short and long term geopolitical interests, that there is intervention on the part of NATO, our allies, but that justifies our endlessness at a historic time, in which yes, our country is weak economics, but, given the US-Turkish rupture, we do not have any small advantages? Even if we accept that the government is under unbearable pressure and extortion, is there any doubt that if it asked for a national guerrilla, would it not have the support of the vast majority of the Greek people? The conclusion is, therefore, that there is no will, will and determination to do so. This, of course, is justified by your ideological background and your Marxist DNA. I am sure you have absolutely no remorse for what you are doing today. Tell me now, what's this got to do with scratching old wounds? But we must do it for the sake of historical truth. In October 1918 and with the participation of Greek communists, what was called the "Balcan Communist Federation" was founded in Moscow in 1920, which raised the issue of Macedonia's autonomy, referring to the three Macedonians: Bardaris, Pirin and the Aegean. In 1924, at its third conference, the JRC ratified the decision of the 7th conference of the Balkan Communist Federation on the right of the proletarians of Macedonia and Thrace to acquire full social and national independence. And then the Asia Minor Destruction, when the Michalakopoulou government wants to install in Macedonia thousands of outdated Greeks of Asia Minor and the Pontou, the Communists denounce the government that by the violent settlement of Macedonia the Macedonian people are being exterminated. In 1932 the then Secretary-General Nikos Zachariadis said "Greece is an imperialist state, which conquered whole regions from other ethnic groups that oppresses them and submits them to a colonial exploitation". In December of '35, at the sixth conference, they speak of the granting of equal rights to minorities and in 1943 the KKE, in cooperation with ELAS and Titus, found in Kastoria and Florina the "Slavomacedonian People's Liberation Front", with the aim of building a national Slavokedonian conscience to the populations of Greek Macedonia, thus giving space to Titus and Bulgarians. The representative of Ioannides Ioannides, in July '43, signs in Petrice, Bulgaria, with the representative of the Communist Party of Bulgaria, Daskalov, an agreement for a joint effort on both sides to distract Macedonia from Greece. At the same time, "Ohran", a Bulgarian separatist organisation led by Koitatzis Anton Calchev, who is trying to append Macedonia to Bulgaria. Of course, the enemy of the United SNOFITES and the Bulgarian cometads is the Greek population of Macedonia that slain him. More than three thousand Greek Macedonians have paid with their lives the vision of the JRC for unified communist Macedonia. The Germans are leaving, but the JRC will continue the same motto. In March of '47 it was written in the "COMMUNICATION OF INSPECTION" that Paul Melas - listen, listen - was a Greek cooper who shook the nipple in the neck of the Macedonian people. In October of '48, Pantelis Vainnas, Vice-Chairman of the Democratic Army, says that the Slavomacedones will find the parity, parity and equality within the new populace-democratic Greece. On March 27, '49, a breath ahead of their final defeat, committed to Macedonia's extremism, set up KOM, a Communist organization of Macedonia in the Aegean Sea. Whether the communist left and left attitude has changed in general in the coming years will clearly appear in July of '63 in Moscow, when the "Lenin" Peace Prize is awarded to the then MP of the SAR Manoli Glezo. A Canadian journalist asks Manolis Glezo his opinion on the Macedonian and he answers that "three-day Balkan negotiations would allow for a given moment the establishment of a autonomous Macedonia". Of course Glezos and the NSA, after the riot that was provoked, tried to collect them, threatening to sue them, which they never did. This historical reference shows that the left-wing attitude was never anti-national, as they often characterize it. Because an anti-national is someone who wants to fight the nation. They had no interest in the Greek nation. They had nothing. All they care about is the world proletarian nation. That's what they're interested in, and that's what they're interested in. They're citizens of a proletarian Utopia. The left is not interested in historical developments, it has been blocked for a hundred years with the poison of ethnicity, levelling and counterfeiting. And don't tell me that's all about the JRC. You brothers are. Just, you since 1968 have clothed the cloak of Europeanists and socialism with a human face. These ideas make you today recognize the right to every club of fun, to every club of mountain peaks, to every union, to every collectiveity and to every Ruviks to express an opinion on everything and to exercise, it says, activism, as you say, but at times, to the limits of the criminal act, and, at the same time, to exaggerately beating our people, when he does what his soul imposes, and of course I speak of the rally, with bad characterisations. I would, however, like to ask the New Democracy to make a public commitment as a party of power, as it is, that this agreement will undo it in the future. To make a clear commitment, straight away, now in this Chamber. Because I see in your glance a feeling of relief, that dirty work will be done again by others. Ladies and gentlemen, Macedonia and our national issues are incapable of political games and are an estate of all Greeks. I have one more reason to have a sensitivity, because as a Messinian, I have the honor of proud that my place is full of mobbs. They don't need much talk, not heroic. What our people need at the moment has shown us, because according to measurements of 75% of the Greeks and more does not accept the agreement. Let us hope that we do not put the burden on the backs of the next generations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u231	Thank you. Mrs Vaki will take the floor now. Immediately after that, Mr. Bukouros and Mr. Emmanoulidis will follow. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, we could speak of Penelope Delta and the various markings of Macedonia from this step forward and about what it means to be nationality and its difference from citizenship or ethnicity and about the ideas of European and Greek Enlightenment and about the Mirivlis Army and Zoe in Tafos, because it is not defined as being uniquely, but as a voice of oxen in the wilderness here that we have arrived and on your own fault. And I'm explaining. So since the name agreement was closed, putting an end to an end to an endless 'nameless fairy tale', to call Penelope Delta, which lasted twenty-six years, the international press - I will begin with this - flooded with bilateral comments. I'm reading, for example. "WALL STREET JOURNAL": "Macedonia agrees to change its name, to end the bitter conflict with Greece". "WASHINGTON POST" means "Macedonia makes an agreement on the name with Greece". 'LE MONDE': 'Athens and Skopje agree on the rename of Macedonia'. "FRANCE SOIR": "North Macedonia, the new Macedonian name that Athens accepted." At the same time, in the neighboring country, Zaev is a traitor, and Ivanov came out against the deal, which he considers to be a betrayal of FYROM. And I wonder: Who is the traitor and who is the patriot and on what side? And well, is the international type of traitors? So, to the epilepsy of professional nationalists and ultrapatriots, let us remind ourselves of some elementary ones. In 1995, we have a binding interim agreement, after a fuel embargo on impoverishment, with the unpunished, of course, for some smugglers. What was his name then? What was the name of the interim binding agreement? Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The term ‘Macedonia’ was therefore included in the name used in the international fora. Secondly, more than a hundred states, including Russia, America and China, recognised the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia under its constitutional name, namely Macedonia, and the citizens of Macedonia. Thirdly, is the agreement brought about by this government harmonises or is it not fully in line with the national line for a complex name by geographical identification and use of ‘erga omnes’? Fourthly, a constitutional review has been agreed on the basis of the international agreement, which has not been included in the national line of the past twenty years. Now I'm going to your position, gentlemen of the Officership, and the motion of censure you're tabling. I will begin with a title: "The four faces of your political opportunism in this matter". If it were the title of work of Eugene Spatharis, it would be: "The Great Alexander and the Cursed Snake". The damn snake is the name that must always be avoided. Position number one: Yes, you theoretically want to resolve the problem on the basis of the position of Government Karamanlis for a complex name with a geographically aggressive definition of ‘erga omnes’ for each use inside and outside the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Position number two: however, even if the Greek Government wishes to follow the 2007 line, you will not vote on whatever agreement is made, because there is no uniform attitude to the matter within the government! In short, you will not vote for your own position to corner the government. Behaviour of a spoiled child or a deprivational power syndrome! Understandable with psychological terms. Position number three: Is this not the appropriate juncture, I wonder, with Prime Minister Zaev, who was politically nurtured in his conflict with VMRO nationalism and who received the rename of national roads and the refusal of symbols that were so far carved? If it is not positive, then, I wonder when it is. The third place, therefore, is ‘strong through the juncture’. Box number four: Delivered in the grim versions of black nationalism, no reference to Macedonia's name and intense participation in the rallys. So you ultra-patriots, you professional nationalists and ethnic soldiers, take care, because you are carrying historical responsibility at the moment, because you are giving voice and step to the extreme right and the neonazi structures. And you bring historical responsibility because you have recovered the skeletons and ghosts of the most black nationalism and the blackest versions of the "father - religion - family". You bring historical responsibility for these disgraceful things. I am currently fishing for the social media. Unfortunately, however, it is not just digital reality, it is society itself. Have you read the comments when the Prime Minister informed the President of the Republic? I quote: "Efftillas, both of you sold", "The last treason is punished by execution", "Cream in the Constitution". And in the real world to remember a few incidents. Some bullets to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the attack on Yannis Boutaris the Mayor of Thessaloniki, extrajudicial to the MPs for the ultimate betrayal and outrageous rallys, which gave to the tone the braced children of Golden Dawn and generals calling "Helive the Army and live the Special Forces". So let's be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u233	The attack on Mr. Hatzidakis and MARFIN, do you remember them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u234	Give me a minute, Mr President. As the motion of censure I understand that it is not just the Macedonian issue and the agreement, but also the economy, to see how your patriotism has proved to be. patriotism, you know, ladies and gentlemen, is not by your Members' mouth, just before the second assessment closes, do not hesitate to question positive data presented by European officials. Is patriotism patriotism going abroad and saying that we are not yet allowed to be on the market on sustainable terms, that it is not all about debt regulation and that they have every reason to be suspicious with us and not allow us a financial area? You patriots who have given up almost for treason were the ones who were the ones who took the lead in the rally since '92 to hand over a country after your country's comitology, creditors and the International Monetary Fund, a country that you had become a desolated country, looted, without productive tissue, without colony, bankrupt and exterminated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u235	Ms. Vaki, please. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u236	Because, you know, it wasn't just globalised financial capitalism. It was a domestic fiscal cliff. What's patriotism? When the public administration becomes a corruption compartment or when the public office became synonymous with the same interest, well protected and shielded by the law ‘for the sake of the Ministers’? It's not patriotism, my colleagues. It's not the state-run predator, it's not the lists of offshore and paradises that some citizens sent them to hell and made their life unbiased. I'm hanging up. Your tolerance for a minute. As long as the Chief of Officer's Anti-Population fishes at the bottom of national insanity so as not to divide his party that has decided to become a far-right party, it will divide and hurt the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u237	Mrs. Vaki, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u238	And we have a bitter and long tradition of national divisions in this country. Twenty-five years didn't just waste all our political and diplomatic capital. Twenty-five years he incubated and finally broke the snake's egg. Our enemy is not our neighbor. Our enemy is nationalism and intolerance. If we took the time back, the motion of censure would very well turn on this agreement against Constantine Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u239	Mrs. Vaki, you've reached ten minutes. You're embarrassing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u240	I'm sorry, Mr. President, just one minute and I'll be done. You have chosen to be with Samaras, with Ambrosios, with the tradition of nationalism and the Europe of interest to you, with the neoliberal priesthood of austerity. We come from another tradition. We come from the great democratic left tradition of enlightenment and the values of solidarity and patriotism, understood as co-development and good neighbourliness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u241	Finish it, Mrs. Vaki. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u242	We come from the tradition of the late Dimitris Maronitis, Philip Elios, Spiros Astrachas, Leonidas Kirkos, Manolis Anagnostakis, to those who raised their stature in the nationalist dellion and in the Paradise.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u243	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u244	I would like to say one word about the motion of censure, since I mentioned the reader: 'It was not his fault. That's how he was."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, the seven minutes cannot take place ten and eleven minutes. Don't make us start cutting microphones. One minute we get it. Seven minutes can't go permanently in ten and eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u246	All right, Mr President, this is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u247	I am referring to both the Members and the Ministers. Please respect our time to go home. 'Cause then you'll complain that we don't finish at 12 o'clock. And there may be colleagues who will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u248	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u249	You will also speak, Mr Barkas, today, and tell me I'm cutting you off. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I will start with one question: Since a hundred and forty states had recognized our northern neighbour, why did she not enter NATO, what we are debating today in this Parliament? But, ladies and gentlemen, is it a matrix of this agreement the need for Balkan cooperation? No, because government policy on this issue is zero, fierce. Is the so-called new heroic negotiation of Mr. Tsipras? No, of course, because he had accepted the most assailant, the Macedonia of Iliden. Well, it doesn't negotiate, then. Memorandum of this agreement is the very ideology of the Left. After all, Left and noble, fake and unscrupulous Macedonianism go hand-in-hand far away until the years of Cominterne. And here is the great political paradox. While the Orthodox Left was suspended and revised some of these positions, what more basic, the "pardal" Left does not stop making its greatest Balkan teratogenic ideological distortions, the greatest historical distortions. I am watching with interest - in order to come to today's - the agonizing effort of the Prime Minister to turn the debate on what the late Constantine Karamanlis and Constantine Mitsotakis said, what Kostas Karamanlis, the former Prime Minister, said, what Antonis Samaras, said, what they did, what they said, what they did, what they did not do and other meaningless things in the light of today's data. And I say 'important', ladies and gentlemen, because history is not written 'if', neither intentionally nor assumptions. The story is written by signatures, whether it's ink or blood. And today, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are the one to sign. You write history that will be judged. Also your struggling effort to show how different the current New Democracy is in this regard in relation to the New Republic of Constantine Karamanlis or Constantine Mitsotakis, makes us well suspected of being guilty on the part of the majority, guilt which, in my view, is not justified and I will explain why. Contrary to what you are accusing us of, you on the left, have remained the same and incomparable over time. You always wanted to give the constitutional name to the neighbouring state. And now that you've become government, you're doing nothing but name and nation and language. What you have always believed, what you have said as opposition decades whole, whatever your size, is what you are doing today as government. And you're really giving it all up and giving it all up. You would have given it from the first day of your governance, but you had great jobs to do, you didn't have time. You signed the memos one after the other. And since the Prime Minister has the habit of looking back at what his politicians have been saying in the past, we will remind him of what some of his own officials have said. Listen to a sentence: 'The signatories and the signatories remind us of the obvious. There is no national interest at stake if its constitutional name is given to the neighbouring State.’ Two hundred prominent SYRIZA executives, Continuing then, 2008, newspaper “SYYNEI”. You can refer to the files. Many of these two hundred executives are currently serving important government positions. Here is another sentence: 'I call you Macedonia, as the rest of the world.' Stelios Kouloglu, MEP of SYRIZA today, on a skeptical page in April 2014. If we are likely to look into some other satellite collectives and components of SYRIZA, we can also discover statements of the press that there is no Greek Macedonia at all. That's your ideology. That's what you're doing today. These have always been your positions, that at our borders there is a Macedonian nation that speaks a Macedonian language and retains the right to self-determination. But what makes the impression today is your attempt to deteriate. It is nothing more than an attempt to fish in bluish waters and to speculate. Because while you know that on the basis of what the vast majority of the Greek people think - over 80% - national damage is caused by this agreement, you are also seeking party benefits. You're political loan sharks! This attempt to fish in the blur waters is also demonstrated by the latest hopeless efforts of the Prime Minister to clothe the cloak of Karamanlis. But it's a very large number of Karamanlis' shoes to wear for Mr. Tsipras. Just the day before yesterday in ERT's friendly he said he doesn't believe there's only one Greek Macedonia. We of the Central Right with intense excitement remember one of the last statements made by the National Admiral, teared to say that Macedonia is one and Greek. But who Karamanlis is trying to imitate Mr. Tsipras? Did the former Prime Minister? The former Prime Minister on the same subject said a resounding "no" to the powerful of the earth. Mr. Tsipras says a bronze "yes" against a weak Zaev. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. So your political speculation proves your political opportunism. We said that the womb of today's deal is your ideology. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same, ladies and gentlemen, for the PASOK executives and especially for those who come from Macedonia. These others were saying and, of course, they will be judged strictly both by the people and by history. I cannot say the same above all for your government partner, the ANELs, who earn nothing. They only win one letter and they become ANTHEL. And if there is no misunderstanding, I don't mean "flavours", I mean exactly what they do, ANTHEL, "If you want power, you sign everything, either directly or later." That's what your government partner is doing today. So stop the tough negotiations. I'm appealing. The country pays them expensive. Despite your ideology, however, remember that you're opening bad accounts with history. Of course I am voting in favour of the motion of censure, because if not for our Macedonia, why and for whom, ladies and gentlemen? It's time to challenge each of us with his conscience. And it is the battle with the conscience of each and every one hard and unbearable. Well, make up your mind! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr Emmanuelides has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mrs Kefalidou will speak from the Democratic Partnership, Mr Balommenakis and Mr Fortsakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, why is Samaras happy and smiling, Father? Because, son, she overthrowed me and adopted you. Philip, you wrote a variation. After the New Democracy barons made up their minds, they gave Samara the keys and killed them. Who's finally ruling this party? It's a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u253	What do you care now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u254	Interestingly, Mr. Voridis. Everyone realises that the poor Leader of the New Democracy is bound to the chariot of nationalism, which leads to the fatal man of modern history, Antonis Samaras, the man who first accepted Macedonia net, as well, purely when he had all the comfort and all the historical responsibility at that time to articulate a self-evident "no". His cube was then the one that bolted over nationalism, troubled the place for twenty-five years, and you are currently proclaiming it as an essential leader of your prolongation. Who's running this party? We all know. You know that, too. I am a little in two terms: 'Political controversy' and 'controversy on national issues'. Political controversies are daily in this Chamber and, if you like, they are fertile, self-evident and upwards allowed. Where things become extremely dangerous is when conflicts on national issues reach and cross the limits of national division. We've lived through it. Tragedies have been paid by this people. National division: Where did the supranationalism of the royalty lead to the critical era of Asia Minor? On a project to demilitarise, we arrived in the Saigon and we mourned what we mourned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u255	And the Peloponnese will arrive!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u256	Not that far. But that was a national division there too. If that doesn't tell you anything, it tells us too much. And take note of these limits of political confrontation and of the seeds of national division, which are unresponsible, irresponsible and dangerously spreading at a time when the place is more than ever in need of the division. The concept of "change" is a concept that you have not assimilated. Very much, and more you have never served it, because your entire route was based on this feeling of "superiority", a "superiority" borrowed by foreign forces. This is the accident, because you never acquired characteristics of social self-awareness. I then come to a point which must be particularly careful of everyone. I am talking about a part of the hierarchy - fortunately not the entire hierarchy - that has ignored basic principles in the functioning of its spiritual role. The hierarchy has a spiritual role and under no circumstances can church tradition be invaded. With inductive logic, I see that lately dear conduct of part of the hierarchy is invasion. He leaves the pure spiritual duties and works quasi-partner. And that's not the problem. The problem is, she's losing her father function. The father has only one essential purpose: to protect children’s condolences and harmony. When the arson speech of part of the hierarchy inspires this fanaticism in extreme expressions, I think we should all be concerned. I will not dwell solely on the issues relating to the proposal you have tabled. Why, did you testify to her? To get the government down? You know very well that we've been through forty waves and within the junction of days there's no way we might have a shipwreck. You only do it to support the pieces and extracts of your space. That, at last, is acceptable and acceptable. The problem is that you are playing your political change at all costs, because you realise that there is a government, which is not the result of a family rule and a portion of people's origins, representatives of the people, who - let me use an impeccable term -'madamsudi'. They try to imitate behaviors of family rule. But these are very far from the real social needs. You brought us the memos. The memorials, I'm putting them aside. You brought social, economic disaster, moral sepsis, and you tremble about the idea that there is a continuity in an area where we each have a life path. Everyone will go to their jobs any time they need. How about you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the government's ability to create chaos is incomplete. Today’s process proved it for the ninth time. Unorthodox Machiavelists, you don't respect anything or anyone. Within the same week, you are voting in the medium-term and without any approval by the House you are celebrating the agreement on the name of Skopje. Systemic enthusiasts of confusion and disorganization, you put everything on the table to keep the world dizzy and not to know where the curse comes from. Does it come from economic issues or national issues? With this and it's what you hope to hold onto the chair a little longer and God has it! Now unfold another plan of yours: Leave nothing standing in Greece in the way we know, forget even who we are. As always, but you're feeding and more you're going to charge us. We have a SYRIZA - ANEL minority Prime Minister who grants without reservations a name, language and identity to the neighbors. Who told him that the antidote to non-default decades is a terrible, bad solution? Where does that right draw from? How dare it sign only agreements binding the country forever, without having asked anyone, in the absentheid of the people, in the absence of the House, in the absence of the political world, only in consultation with the outsiders? Without national agreement, the agreements are doomed to fail and those who have been drunk, we all know how they are mentioned in history. I wonder how you can withstand the heavy past you're creating today. But you'll tell me: Little evil. It's only about you and your conscience. The drama is that your choices will always be paid by the country. In a country where for eight years the world has spit out blood, which is struggling to maintain its dignity, you and your government with a monograph, hidden behind the Constitution, which you have made it a ragged card, commit a country that does not belong to you. And it's not the first time. This morning you did it with the social eld that you loaded us. You voted for your second memorandum in four years. But it wasn't enough for you to impose the toughest financial measures and sew everyone - unborn, infants, up to old people - the strip suit of the isovite, but you're sure that, with a little communication policy, some of the euphoria of the press "we will be confronted with history and with our responsibilities..." - as if you'll be here - you will go through the scorching intact. And all this for a chair of power payback. And what's going to stay? The use of our country's name only with permission and clarifications for which Macedonia we are from. Ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting is the epitome of the disaster caused by your government in the country. Having failed miserably, because of you always to raise your head, he failed to be trustworthy and trustworthy, he now gives land and water to gain political exchanges and ensures a certain favor. Instead of a lentil plate, you give the firstbornes. The outsiders of course want to do their job. Your job, though, is different. You do not thereby preserve the interests of your own country. You think you're doing this? In what way, with this broken phone agreement? With the tongue? Macedonian with asterisks? Who's gonna bother to understand the difference? Ethnic? You are turning the Skopje residents into Macedonian. With the trade names? We will shortly be asking for permission for our products already in circulation, known and popular throughout the world. On all important issues, they will continue to be called Macedonians. Their Macedonian language, their products Macedonian and so on. And where's the famous erga omnes, like you brought us? What I understand is that, in the end, the "North Macedonia" will only apply to Greece. For everyone else, and especially the Skopje, it will already be an insignificant addition to very fine letters, an "N" plugin at the back of their cars. Their agreement stipulates that especially the Greeks, as if we were autistic, we will not call the Skopje residents Macedonians, citizers of the Republic of North Macedonia, but as citizens of Severna Macedonia. I mean, all of them together, and the pussy-fucking-fucking-fucking-fucking-fucking-bitch. All Macedonians will tell them, detaches, normal with the law, neither intransigent nor unequivocal. And the 'candy' is that we give them a gift to join NATO and the European Union in advance, they keep up - they do not comply with the agreement. Gentlemen of the government, you deceive the Greeks and vaporize the country's diplomatic reserve in your knowledge. You are opening the street of Skopje for the European Union and NATO, without winning anything as a country. You allow alutism to continue to undermine the security of the region with unforeseen consequences in the future. You are once again attempting to distort reality in cold blood. In simple terms, we are quickly committed to an agreement that only serves others. And in this there is no way back, no renegotiation, no kich. The results of all your choices will also be paid for by future generations, the children of this country that are not yet born. That's what you're signing in the Prespes. To this day, you have been impressed in the minds of the world as the government of taxes, seizures and auctions, unable to bring the country into any normality. After the signature you will put wide ranges in the Prespes, in the midst of healings and congratulations from the outsides that settle - it is true - a critical loose end, the country will be committed forever. Once again, we are watching frozen, in an environment of misery, defeat, division, the Prime Minister plays a role in this respect, in the interpretation of Parliament, in the interpretation of the people he represents. If you are unable to solve the problem - which you are not - if you do not believe in a solution that is to be tolerated by Greek citizens, let others deal with, those who over time want and can, without chameleonism, without inconsistencies contribute to a decent and honest solution. And above all, don't come back again and tell us the known stories and delusionals. Finally, please solve a question. Since Saturday, when will you sign this famous agreement, tell me, how will I be introduced and how will I refer to my place of origin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. Now Mr. Balomemakis will be speaking. After Mr. Balomenakis, we'll let you know how the list goes. Mr. Balomemakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. The first thought made by one of you, ladies and gentlemen, in dealing with this motion of censure of the New Democracy, is that it seems that the leadership of the New Democracy believes that it is taking a step forward. In fact, it attempts to hide the uncomfortable embarrassment caused by the inconsistency of its current positions with its positions in the recent past and, of course, to obscure, as far as possible, the very great success that has been sealed at noon today by the confirmation of our country's exit from the Memorandum states. In fact, however, the New Democracy is not only conflicting with its past, it is also confronting itself with its present, with much of its reasonable voters, with the European People's Party, with the international organisations that welcomed the agreement as a step forward for stability, prosperity and progress in the region. It is still confusing, exacerbating things, leading things to conflict, its own leader, and his own future and the future of his prolongation. Although I am irresponsible, I think that, instead of rallying, the motion of censure undermines the Party of Officers. It is often found in the political context that the lasting retreat and heterogeneous definition of a leadership is usually the precursor of its weakening and overthrowing. The absolutely man-made and iso-destructive way that the New Democracy is expressing itself in the face of the agreement is an indication of a politically indiscriminate folklore. In the context, which always accompanies populism, the falsification in which its speakers have served, in a number of respects, to say half the truth. And I want to mention two examples. Mr Tsiaras complained about the great time available on the other side, in order to complete its commitments, in other words to implement them. But he doesn't say what he's suggesting. It suggests a tight timetable and what would that serve? Every reasonable man understands that the potential and rhythms of a coordinate state must be respected in an agreement, if we really want a viable agreement, otherwise we will be going to tighten the screw, which, as you know, usually leads to the breakage of the mess. Is that what they want? And second example of urgency - at least - is the phrase of the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Georgada, who, speaking out of hand, called for the agreement to be reached in the House for ratification, signed'reservation' before the Prespes. That's it! If he did not get away with it, and if he was serious about it, it is terrible because, as we all know, ratification is the last action that undermines an international agreement. If that were the case, how could we be claiming, on the other hand, to implement its commitments when we have ratified the agreement? And ratification, from everyone's understanding, is a weapon that you can only use in time, as this agreement provides, when all commitments from the other side have been implemented. I am tempted to comment on Mr Kumucaku's famous nuclear weapon. Since that is and the New Democracy's mandate had provided us with increased power, questions such as: Why from this post, from the weapons, that is, from the guns, has gone away, removed and undermined the New Democracy itself? The answer to this is that what they missed at the time was the political daring, the feeling that above the party is the country's interest and, of course, the lack of cohesion and with the will and determination that have not existed. It is a cohesion and a determination that today exists and brought about an agreement that is beneficial, both for Greece and the neighbouring people, and certainly for peace, for stability in the region. I also commented on the stance of the Change Movement, if that is finally the case, as expressed by Mr Scandalidis, who described the government as 'double and awkward', while, in fact, opportune and petty is their attitude. 'Although they see', as he said, 'positive points', however, they think 'they will catch the good', if the government falls. In vain, though. It will not do this to anyone, because before all we have a very good deal, which will prove to be how carefully the days pass, with how sensitive the issues touching public opinion are, such as slaping symbols and historical data, which is now completely ostracized. The motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, will be rejected. The process started is irreversible. It will lead to a better, safer tomorrow, in harmony with modern international rules of peaceful coexistence of peoples, which are and must continue to be the basis for international relations, in a field where Greece is and can become even more a force for stability and a pillar of growth and creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr Balomannakis, and for the economy in time. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision from the Bureau is that we will go up to the number 31 from the list to be distributed to you. The ones you have aren't the right ones. This means that they are fifteen fellow Members and two ministers. With the calculations, if you keep the time, and I say it depends on you, at 2.00 a.m., we'll be done at midnight. If you don't keep the time, let's go 3.00 or you can be deleted and leave at 1.30 ́. I will read the names, so that all my colleagues will know, whether you are here or not, who are to speak. If someone finds a replacement, you can be happy to do so and move some for tomorrow and so on. The MPs who will speak today are: Mr. Fortsakis from New Democracy, Mrs. Kafantaris from the SYRIZA, Mr. Germenis from the Golden Dawn, Mr.Rizoulis from SYRIZA, Mrs. Antonios from New Democracy, Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Cavadellas from the Central Association, Mr. Xanthos, Mr. Nikolopoulos, Independent Parliamentary, Mr. Barkas from SYRIZA, Mr.Metafides from SYRIZA, Mr. Maniatis from the Democratic Association, Mr. Katsis from SYRIZA, Mr. Dimas from New Democracy, Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA, Mr. That's the list. That's where we're finishing up. From you, I repeat, it depends on when we leave tonight. Come on, Mr. Fortsakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Even at this late hour it is important to exchange some thoughts on a genuinely major national issue, which is currently of concern to us on the basis of the proposal of distrust put forward by the New Democracy. And it is really a major national issue of particular importance, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a burden on history, it is a burden on the juncture and it is a burden on the juncture. Remember how recent the history of Greece is. Remember that all we've learned in schools from the Balkan Wars up to what happened since World War II are people who still experience them in theirs have experienced them as personal experiences. I remember when I was a student and was finishing my studies, two major political leaders in Greece were born Ottomans. I remember Constantine Karamanlis and George Mavros, who were then the two leaders of the two major parties, were born non-Greeks in citizenship. A large part of Macedonia and Thrace was attached - I remind you - from our neighbour Bulgaria and was considered the territory of Bulgaria. These are in World War II. It's a very recent story, and this story bores people's psychism. But he's bored and the juncture is bored. Because today, when Greece feels to be humiliated by what it has endured in recent years, the subject of Macedonia is its soul. And I would remind you that two great leaders of opposite parties, Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou, had both described Macedonia as "the soul of Greece". It is a pity that the government used the way it used to deal with such an important issue. I'm standing in the way before I actually get into it. He omitted everything that the government could have facilitated the creation of a consensus, a debate that would have brought together parties and citizens and completely forgotten the slightest sensitivity in this respect. It is a real pity, because, if it had dealt with the matter differently, we could have a completely different situation today. I would remind you that for a long time there has been a total lack of information, that neither the opposition parties nor the citizens have been informed for a long time about what is happening and we have only learned it from the journalistic information we had, Greek or foreign. I would also like to give a reply to my dear colleague, Mr Katrugalo, who, speaking earlier, said that when he signs an agreement with the outside, the government does not commit the country, but the thing remains open. He gave the example of Wilson, the American President, who, while he wanted to build the League of Nations, did not proceed and the United States did not adopt his proposals. This is a completely inconsistent matter. Here we have a course where a foreign country is led by the agreement to join an organisation and, whether this organisation is Europe or NATO, it is obvious that it will be very difficult to stop going there. But it's not just the problem of way. The substance of the agreement is also extremely problematic, because there are extremely important differences between fixed national positions. And I would like very briefly to mention eight points. Point 1, there is nowhere in the Greek or English text, the words ‘Severna Macedonia’. This term is attributed as the Republic of Northern Macedonia, ‘Republic of North Macedonia’, or to the short version of ‘North Macedonia’. Article 1(3)a. Secondly, there is no Skopje commitment to name erga omnes. There is no determination of the maximum time to fulfil FYROM's obligations as, for the official documents intended for international use, the name change will take place in five years - Article 1(10) - but for documents intended for internal use, the change is linked to the evolution of the accession process. We are talking about a future that is uncertain and distant. The abbreviations of the name - internet, commercial uses, etc. - they remain the same as today's acronyms, with the exception of labels in cars. Article 1(3)(i) shall be shifted for the future and the settlement of trade names, trademarks and names. They will be judged by an international group of experts within three years, without anyone being able to repay the decisions of this group today. Until then today's names and trademarks will remain the same. Point 3: unjustified concession of the use of the surname ‘Macedonian’ for the ethnic and language of Skopje. It recommends the first recognition by Greece of a so-called "Macedonian" ethnic and so-called "Macedonian" language. The recognition on our part of a so-called "Macedonian" language and ethnicity is the root of scepticism. It actually strengthens her. Indicative of how wrong the transfer of Macedonian nationality - and I come to the fourth point - is that Bulgaria, although it was one of the first to recognise Skopje under their constitutional name 'Macedonia', has never recognised Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian language, because it considered Macedonian as a wider part of the Bulgarian nation. This explains the announcement of Bulgaria's Ministry of Foreign Affairs that called for Greece and Skopje not to interpret the agreement as an influence on changes at the existing borders. The Bulgarian government has never recognised Macedonian ethnicity and language. Point 5: Article 7 of the Agreement, which states that each country shall interpret the terms 'Macedonia' and 'Macedonia' at will. Even if we look good in what the current Macedonian government declares, who will in future prevent a different interpretation? Sixth point, unheard of! And it is a point that the government has concealed. It is undeniable that under Article 8.5 of the Agreement a Joint Interdisciplinary Committee will be set up to examine how the history of both countries is taught. So this committee will also consider how to teach the story not only of Skopje, but also of Greece, in order to eradicate arrogatory references to our history? So we're gonna have to stop teaching what we've learned about the Macedonians? Point 7: The Skopje invitation process to join NATO can be extremely precarious, because the way Article 2 is formulated is not at all certain that the conditions laid down by Greece will definitely be accepted by NATO members. Eighth point and I conclude with that: there is no provision in the text of the agreement on whether the agreement after its transfer to the United Nations will be adopted by the Security Council in order to replace the decision 817/1993 providing for the accession of that country to the United Nations under its provisional name. In conclusion, with this agreement, we recognise Macedonian language and ethnicity. We discount our consent to FYROM join NATO, while on the other hand there is only a promise. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government undermines the country's negotiating position, giving everything to ensure nothing and that is the main point. Finally, I would remind you that on Facebook today, a cartoon by Arkas prevails, for those who have not seen it: "In the agreements that the Prime Minister makes, we may get something, but we are giving something". This is unfortunately the situation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. We already have the first deletion. Mrs. Kafantari won't come to talk. Mr. Spirtzis will speak in her place. This does not mean that time is added to others. Maybe we'll leave sooner if you keep up with the time. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express our satisfaction at the debate that is taking place in order to regain the historical memory - even in part - of the New Democracy. You remember today Cyril and Methodium, you remembered Captain Kotta and Paul Mela, even though you weren't born then. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Slowly you will remember others, you will remember Gregory Lambraki, you will remember Charuha, you will remember those who said that in ten years no one will remember anything about the name "Macedonia". It seems to me that he had the same last name as the President of the New Democracy who said so. After the expression of our own satisfaction to you, say that we are living really critical and historic times. We are living in a green international environment and economic and geopolitically, in a Europe that has not found a specific direction, with many outbreaks of war and tensions in our region. For a few minutes, I would say that we should leave the motion of censure, leave it to its purpose, that the success of our country's historic agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia be weakened, that we should allow the last vote a few hours ago for the prerequisites, for the end of the programme, for the recovery of the national sovereignty that the parties supporting the motion of censure have given creditors, for the prevalence of the extreme right in New Democracy, for us to leave aside the extreme right of the two countries that are beating the agreement, for the purpose of leaving the government to issue a problem with regard to the ANLEs, but you have created a problem for your own allies in Parliament, from what you are reading. Let us leave all this for a few minutes and see a visionary picture of our neighbourhood, the Balkans, that is, what we would all like to have in the region that has been tortured by conflicts, wars and cold wars for hundreds of years. I therefore believe that it would be fair for everyone to want in the Balkan countries to have created or try to create the conditions for the countries of Central Europe, that is to say, crossing from one country to another without realising where the borders are, to have cooperation, joint productive activities, daily movements, a few costs for equipment, no isolated areas at the border of countries, that is to say, what we see when we go to the countries of Central Europe. And there are contradictions and disillusionments and historical conflicts. So what do we want to do? We would like throughout northern Greece to complete the vertical axes in Ennaia connecting northern Greece with our neighbouring countries, namely to complete the vertical axis in Rhodope, the vertical axis in Evros, start the third vertical axis of Thrace in Xanthi, make the street Dramas – Amphipolis, where you discovered Alexander the Great, to say about your historical memory. We would also like to upgrade the road from Thessaloniki to Bulgaria, to Promahona, to FYROM, to finish the road to Krystalpi, Kastoria. We say what we would like to see. We'd like to continue on the road from Iannina to Cakavia. We would like to prepare the way from Igoumenitsa to Sayyada. We would like in this vision a northern Greece where its borders would not be the last in the country, but would be the beginning of the Balkans inland. We would have liked half of Greece not to have become, as in the past decades, a ruined area with ghost villages, inappropriate, abandoned. We would like in October 2018 to end the Thessaloniki rail link - Electrical powered by electricity. To connect Thessaloniki with Athens with electric power. It should be linked to FYROM, Serbia, and Central Europe. We would like Thessaloniki - Verea - Florina to prepare for the implementation of Thessaloniki - Promahona, which is the second axis, to make the railway connection of the port and the road marking of the port of Thessaloniki. We would like to prepare the electricity drive of Thessaloniki - Veria - Edessa and the connection between Giannitson and Arida. We would like there to be an agreement and implementation for Thessaloniki - Florina - Crystalsource and Pogrades. We would like there to be a axis in the Western Balkans through the INTERREG. We would like to speak with the countries of Albania - FYROM - Bulgaria to a quadrimer, for example in Thessaloniki, which might be a month ago, to implement common road monitoring systems, to interoperability, to a water network, to cooperate and to provide know-how and European legislation, to integrate people, to hold joint conferences in the autumn on combined transport, as well as to have telecommunications connections and to implement links with optical fibres. So, in this visionary situation, Thessaloniki should be an economic, productive and cultural centre in the Balkans, having parks instead of camps, having a freight centre, connecting with Athens, having railway infrastructure, having historical memory and a Holocaust museum, having connections with Central Europe, having a metro so that it can play this role and urban transport, which you have been fighting for all these years. This is therefore a visionary picture in order for our children to live in a country which has no insecurity, which will have development, which will have a leading role in the region where neighbouring countries and neighbouring peoples will have an interest in deepening and maintaining cooperation, peace and friendship with us. That is our policy, what we have been doing for three years. It's our patriotism. There's the other one. To have closed borders, to have paths connecting our country, not connecting the ports, rail networks, not even Ennatia, or organising speeches with clergymen, with ex-militaries, with horses, with chlamyds - think about what we would say if they were to Istanbul - mayors and politicians who do not agree, forget the murders and the para-state of Thessaloniki because we were not born at that time. There is also your patriotism, what you are proposing, that is to say, to maintain the contrast and conflict with neighbouring peoples, so that some continue the tested recipe of the extreme right, from the northern risk. To return to the communist risk that threatens us, in the civil war logic that divided the Greek people into patriots and brokers, at the Gotzamanis, in all the things that Greece and the Balkans have lived for decades, in those that isolated, deport, forget half of northern Greece, bars a few miles away from Xanthi a few years ago that I and many others have studied. A so-called patriotism that supported and favoured certain economic interests, which maintained old-fashioned mechanisms, maintained para-state mechanisms and recycled specific political persons. And, well, the New Democracy has the extreme right side, it has prevailed, with her, with joy. The others, the reformists, who support and support the motion of distrust, too? It's really sad. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not put him in the political game you want. We patriotism honor both with struggles and with historical agreements and with the building of peace, cooperation, the history of our country, the progressive world and the Left. And this policy applauds all the progressive world throughout Europe, throughout the planet, because it honors our history, honors those who have lost their lives for the country, peace and the future of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u265	Second, Minister. You were expensive! We have a second deletion of Mr. Katsy's. So, well, you see some things get easy. Mr. Germenis has the floor for seven minutes since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us say that we are in favour of the motion of censure against the government. And how should we not be, when a government, which wants to be called Greek, legislates blessedly, makes brethren's deals and gives gypsies a name that is glorious, like that of Macedonia? Reading the proposal of distrust from the New Democracy - and I am referring to the first paragraph - one finds that the party of the Officerial Opposition is like coming from virginity, as if it had not been ruling over all these years. We read the first paragraph of the motion of censure, which states: 'Three and a half years now the government has been impoverished by the people. He signed two irresponsible memos, bound the country with heavy pension cuts and wages, increased taxes, mortgaged public property. Insecurity dominates everywhere. Unacceptable methods damage the functioning of institutions and the rule of law." In other words, in the past five and a half years that New Democracy and PASOK have been running, there has been prosperity in the Greek state, in the Greek people? You shared pensions, you shared millions? Was the Greek citizen having a good time? He lived with open doors and windows? It was a broken society, it's a broken society. The Greek people are impoverished, they can't bear any more, and so far it is proof that every little while you bring new measures, which you all vote on and you don't disagree anywhere. Let us not forget that the Government of New Democracy and PASOK had passed both the first memorandum and the second memorandum granting national sovereignty. In fact, then and with the blessings of Karajafier. First of all, we do not know why the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is cutting off the agreement so quickly with the Skopje. We can't figure it out. He could have had a strong paper by Mr. Tsipras to ask for a referendum as a democrat that is from the Greek people, get a 90% and with this paper to go to negotiate if he wanted to say: "With 90% I can't give a name". But since you are genuine children of communism, you have ideological bumpers. I would mention a few words to you of a prominent linguist, not Chryssayite, not a fascist, by Mr Babiniotis, who wrote on the "First Theme": "We wrote, explained, documented, reasoned, argumented and thought that one of the leaders who negotiate and make decisions on the sceptic theme will listen to us. Nothing. Now the naive writer of these lines understands why the intelligent minister referred stubbornly to 1977. Because there was a retrospective justification for the unjustified. It was obviously decided within the donor and receiving the negotiation that the name of Skopje's Skopje as “Macedonian” should be granted and that it was allegedly “previous” and supposedly “historic claim”. So the Skopje diplomatic “enterprise” - expressly just since 1991 that FYROM was seized - that their language is the “Macedonian”, that is to say, the use by the Skopje of a false name for a language that is only a Bulgarian-Serbic idiom. That's what Mr. Babiniotis says. And he continues: “The cause of 1977 appeal and many other dates. The Bulgarian Slavic language of Skopje was officially recognised as “Macedonian” when negotiating with Skopje. A name was officially given with which this language has nothing to do with it. Compensation: It will be mentioned somewhere in the agreement that the officially recognized language of Skopje as “Macedonian” is not Macedonian but Slavic. Then, since both sides expressly agree that it is - as indeed is - a Slavic language, why do we agree to be called “Macedonian”, a name that expressly refers to the Greek language of Macedonia, ancient, new and modern? "Is that not the peculiarisation and slickness of a national name for a language that in relation to its speakers - I mean the Skopje - has another national origin? And is it not for this obvious reason that a national language is also a key component of national identity, that is another identity from the true historical identity of the citizens of Skopje? “Is it serious and convincing to argue that the world that says the language of Skopje “Macedonian” will then rush to seek the agreement that has been signed and in which will it be informed what the origins and essences of this so-called “Macedonian” language are?” That's what the linguist professor, Mr. Babiniotis, says. You could take him and make a deal at the table with a linguist of that level. And he has an international recognition of man, and he is not a Chrysayite, nor a nationalist. In summary, this agreement states that the citizenship of Skopje will be Macedonian, i.e. everyone worldwide will call them "Macedonians". The language will be called "Macedonian" language, car plates will say "Macedonian". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And continuing, he says, will be poisoned by Greek youth, with the aim of creating a false historical perception of Macedonia's history. In other words, new books, new history, and our school children will learn a story about a different Macedonia. That's all in the Greek state. What the Skopje will do is not concern us. We have history and a nation of ages. And because it has been heard here that those who work and have arms are criminalised, we want to say: We are also with the armies, we are also with the Army, we are with the Special Forces. We're not with these leprosy guys you bring them and they're wearing skirts and heels. For us skirts and heels they can wear very nice girls, not your leprosy. After this circle, we fight and hope your government is past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Germenis. Mr Rizzoulis from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes. Immediately afterwards, Mrs Antoniou and Mr Cavalella will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. With arms we have no problem, and everyone we can have. We have a problem with the arms that get up to murder the Bridge, the immigrants. With these arms, we have a serious problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u269	"Manos" and "George" say anything to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u270	Don't open a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u271	You're stuck all over the world. Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u272	Don't provoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Rizzoli, please. Don't you do it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u274	And the other one caused it. I don't understand. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u275	Don't provoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u277	I told you which arm we're in trouble with. Why do you have a problem? Are you snatching and killing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Rizzouli, stay in your word and don't cause. There's no need.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u279	I wanted to say a few things too, because it's what plays very nice and the conservative party is now on its side. And I say 'conservative', because we are going to take it in time. National patriotism and patriotism are two concepts that have mixed them over time and made them one, with one parentheses. First of all, in order to remember all those who were born or were not born, read or read, know that since 1945 the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has started to cultivate a logic for Macedonia and the Macedonian nation. I've lived there for a few years, and I know how it happened. We arrived in 1992, and I'll take it quickly. It was cultivated for forty-five years, therefore, in a world there that they were descendants of Alexander the Great, descendants of that history which went up to India, etc., and in 1992 this world, which, fearing the surroundings and having the background of education for the forty years, came to assert and claim what we call the history of Greek Macedonia. That's the end of parentheses. From 1945 to 1950, here in Greece, the conservative party was fulfilling another patriotic duty. He chased the losers of the civil society, chased the children, chased the grandchildren, chased the nieces, did not enter the public, great leaders of the communist movement were murdered, while the clubs of the paratroopers stood up and left dead on the sidewalks. But they didn't just do that, but they did another patriotic duty and it's very nice to do that. What's the patriotic duty? There goes the Hellenism of Istanbul. You didn't deal with that. Imbros and Tenedos are on their way. That's not what the party did. He had this world that he had to sell the danger to him from the North, and that was what he worked for. And for a lid...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u280	The Doxate that was slaughtered a few thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u282	I'll answer you now. You don't even know Lamprakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u283	Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u284	You don't know the Macronessus? Don't you know Gyro? You know it well! And Cyprus has come for a lid. And you will now tell me what I have to talk to New Democracy and the Conservative Party about Cyprus. I don't do it. I'm sorry, but that side does it, which was looking to find out who succeeded Papadopoulos' youth in the lead. And where your arms opened, the replacement came in. Let's take a look at this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u285	Tell me about the deal now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u286	It's next door. I'll tell you about the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u287	It's for the truck.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u288	We said, Imbros, Tenedos, Hellenism of the city, Cyprus. It was your patriotic duty, one way or another. And we reach 1992 now, with the scorpion, with the neighbouring country, with Severna Macedonija, North Macedonija, and whatever is said. First of all, through the diluteness of not bothering, that is, at all, to avoid the subject, what did you achieve? The patriotic duty and this, that the whole world should recognize them as genuine Macedonians and Macedonia. With the broadening of the non-negotiations, the non-negotiations and your internal disputes, this has been done and we have reached this point today. And the whole world also recognized them as "Macedonia". In many countries, the game of history was also played. And this government is coming today - the first time, the second time, the left you say, and that is what it is - which it is doing? He puts this country first in the language, saying that the language they speak has nothing to do with the ancient Greek and it is Slavic. And also that they have nothing to do with ancient Greek Macedonia and history. That's what this government does. I will say - and with this I will end, I don't want to talk much - something. I want you to tell me about forty, fifty, sixty previous years with your nationalism and your patriotism, what did you gain for Hellenism, except for the retreats of Greeks? I started with Istanbul, talked about Imbros and Tenedo and Cyprus. We have to say that in three years' time we have achieved what you have done with the slide and the negotiations you have been negotiating for so many years, you have delivered it. And now it has nothing to do with the history of ancient Greek Macedonia, nor is its language related to the language spoken in ancient Macedonia. You tell me what you've done. All you have to do is play with what you've always played. You play with a conservative world that you once feared with the communists coming from the North. Now you have an enemy to pull out again, saying that here the traitors are selling the country out! So you sell a false patriotism and think that with this false patriotism you will succeed in falling down on this government. We're not doing you the favor. The government won't fall. And you will not need - I hope for a long time still - to take steps behind national issues, as you have learned to do for fifty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Risouli. Mrs Antoniou has the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Kavalellas will be followed, and then he's the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u290	Then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u291	Then there's Mr. Barkas. Mr. Nicolopoulos has not been found, but since the next 15 weeks he has the right to speak. And then it's Mr. Mitafidis, and then it's you, Mr. Maniatis. You're looking forward to it! Here, Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a historic moment - the most historic moment of my parliamentary journey, but also many other Members here - and in the face of the responsibilities that we once come to our lives. It is time, as we say in my village - and I will tell you what my village is, because it matters - 'to separate the steriles from the galleries'. On Saturday, the masks will fall. On Saturday the MPs are invited to decide. Because if Mr. Tsipras signs this confiscated agreement, he has no return. When the volley leaves, the bullet has no return. Evil has been done. After, I think, six months of secret negotiation - and now I understand why the negotiation was secret - you proceeded to the inconceivable. You recognised "Macedonian language", "Macedonian citizenship" and in substance "Macedonian nation". It is the worst agreement that Mr Tsipras has no political legitimacy to sign unless, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the Annells here, you give him legalisation on Saturday. So SYRIZA proceeds to accomplish what for many decades has been unthinkable. It was, however, - apparently - always in the left's minds. This also appears to be the case by SYRIZA's colleagues. Mr. Tsipras is preparing with a signature to hand over Macedonian identity and language to the neighbours, to designate a Macedonian nation, to do so the deepest waterproof dreams of the Skopje. And he is preparing to do so with a one-tie twin by ignoring the Greek Parliament, above all, but ignoring the Greek people's view. The one who, as Prime Minister, passed a referendum on the loan contract, which, of course, has trampled, refuses, now tells the Greek people to express themselves on the most serious national issue. It characterizes gamblers who say to him "take the approval of the Greek Parliament to proceed with the signing of the agreement" and says it speaks with history, which is the only one to judge him. If we do not have the new Napoleon Bonaparte before us, then we certainly have a Prime Minister who does not respect the institutions. Because even at SYRIZA they know very well that before history the Greek people will judge them, whenever they dare and set up the ballots, and judge them hard. As a Greek MP I come from and I am elected to Kastoria - there my village is stuck - the place that was sacrificed for our Macedonia by Paul Melas can only tell you: Stop games with the soul of the Macedonians. Listen to the voice of the people. At the rally held last week in Kastoria, thousands of men and women protested peacefully and worshipped their faith for the one and the Greek Macedonian. All of these were neither gamblers, nor mobs, nor extremes. They were just people who learned to respect and fight for the holy and loyal of our Macedonia and especially of our Greece. I do not know whether it is accidental, ladies and gentlemen, or whether history is avenged, but the choice of the Prespes as a place to sign the agreement is flagrant and wakes up bad memories. The Prespes are, moreover, the place where a Plenary Political ancestor of SYRIZA once spoke of the self-determination of the Macedonian nation and the creation of the Macedonian state. Congratulations, Mr. Tsipras, you seem to want to be the one to finish the job. You talk to us all the time about the economic benefits of the agreement. Are you really willing against an appropriate price to sell everything out? On Saturday, ladies and gentlemen, each of us will be judged on what it says, but above all on what it will do. And because many SYRIZA colleagues are struggling for what New Democracy is doing, you better ask yourself what you are doing and how you will stay as a black page of modern history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mrs Antoniou, and indeed for the time economy. Mr Cavalellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u294	Thank you very much, Mr President. I went to Stepma with soul pain today because something sacred about Greece is at stake. I've spoken from this Step at least twice, but today is the only time I'm really angry and very disappointed. You're all dancing, nothing special, on the body of our Macedonia. You've already prepared her funeral and pretend you have differences. New Democracy pretends to be serving home with this action today, knowing, of course, that the government has secured the majority. It's an unholy majority, an unholy alliance based on power, chair, office. So the New Democracy feels like he's mocking the Greek people for an alibi and an alibi doing this today. It's an alibi that won't have it, of course, from us. I should like to ask the following question: what has New Democracy done for so many years? The New Democracy has ruled. This story is old, from Tito. Why didn't he entangle Macedonia? Didn't the right one, who, of course, ask to rule again, go out the swimming pool of Siloam? You and Mr. Tsipras had the guns to negotiate to say something. I have here a stamp saying "Vardarska". That's the name of the state. Let's say it 'Vardhaska Republic', let's say it 'Democracy of Skopje', let's say it as they like. It doesn't write Macedonia, write Vardrhaska, gentlemen. Do what you don't know and don't see. Mr Tsipras actually brings your own proposal, gentlemen of the New Democracy, a complex name that you agreed to or which you probably proposed. I guess you have a very short memory. Do you remember what you said at the first rally? No one's going to the rally. You just saw the crowd, you changed your mind. Of course, ERT didn't play it, played smurfs at that time, they saw it was up to five thousand. Another story from there, another fascist behavior: ERT or to close or stop working on information, play smurfs and smurfs, there are nice movies and not to inform us why we are tired of the information it gives us. As far as the left is concerned. The left had been improperly placed in any nation. Today, if you're defending your homeland, according to SYRIZA intestines, you're a fascist, you're a reactive, backward. And you were not ashamed to light up the House for a derogating minority, hugging and kissing people painted red, green, heels of a few men three meters. I haven't seen a more funny thing than this lately, and I've seen a lot of funny movies. You want to dismantle the family, morality, and now you want to break the country. The left had it, of course, already condemned for not having...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u295	Tell me about the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u296	I'll see you around. Why shouldn't I say it all? I'll tell the story here today. You had condemned Macedonia in your soul from the past. I have here some ridiculous things to say that a people, the Macedonians, were tortured by Greeks and Bulgarians and the Macedonian populations were violently re-elected. It concludes in the first place that we have nothing to do with Greeks. If you are taught and taught these on the Left, what else do we want from foreigners? What did you do? You have put Mr Kotzia, the former theory of the JRC, who is sure to embrace these, to negotiate. You put the wolf, the people say, guarding the sheep. We know, of course, what toys you're playing. We know it, the people don't know it. You guys are very special at fairy tale. The Prime Minister himself went to embrace Mr. Boutaris. Of course, we are in every form of violence, but you are only looking at right-wing violence. Left-wing violence thinks it's a good thing. "Ruvikon" is your child and has never been arrested by any of the "Ruvikon". They were wrong once, and they were arrested and you ran to get them out of the police department, save them. They are the ones who support Mr Koufantina, who had a sign, because he was killing at once, I don't remember it well. In any case, the Prime Minister himself has tried to embrace Mr Boutaris, who does not even give his deafness to those who have been slaughtered for the Pontius. I'd like to give Mr. Boutaris a tip. First, the people of Thessaloniki sent him there to pick up the trash. Secondly, I advise him not to change the name of the airport, but his name, because I'm confusing it with the wines. You're bringing us an excuse that they've been identified by too many. We do not care, gentlemen who has recognized them. We must not recognise them, and if we do not recognise them, they will neither enter Europe nor NATO and they will praise. We're giving our own blood, the blood of the Macedonists, the Pavlomellas that you were saying ironically. So we give the soul of Greece, they take something that does not belong to them. If there is northern and southern Macedonia, it means that Macedonia is divided, so they will once take steps to unite the "Macedonians". Remember that. You give them the language, a language only spoken by the Greek Macedonians, who were also Greek at the same time. Here I will say that the alibi to the fact that so many years you have done nothing to protect, gentlemen of the Right, Macedonia from counterfeiters, you are asking us today. Macedonia is one, the soul of Greek. A phrase can be said to the Skopje and the western'moles', but it is such a luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. The Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, return to the familiar, tested, polluted and unpleasant waters of far-right rhetoric, national philosophy, patriocapilia and unprecedented anti-communism. This is happening these days and this will be culminated by Saturday night. That's the reality. This is the political climate created by this proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. So now that the account of the disaster and the imminent suffering is not confirmed, now that the prophecies of the country's bankruptcy and the destruction of the economy are being disproved, now that the prospect of sustainable exit from the crisis and the Memorandum is getting a visible and sustainable situation, now that the constant request for elections has not been socially and politically induced and it needs to stimulate party patriotism, because no political initiative in recent months has come out of you, now that a major national issue after the 25-year project has been brought to a serious, sustainable and obviously beneficial solution, now New Democracy has taken the opportunity and is trying to transform this national issue, not just into a political confrontation - that is obviously fair - but unfortunately in a field of extreme social and political action. This motion of censure really serves a line of division, among patriots and traitors, between ethnic and minority. It is being driven there and you need to be very concerned about who wins from this controversy. Can't you see who gives the tone? And well the New Democracy, but the progressive PASOK? And does this contribute to the reproduction of this philology, debate and rhetoric?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u299	Sit down and listen to us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u300	I've been listening for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u301	Please, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u302	Obviously, this proposal will not have any luck. You can't win anything and you know it. But you want to give a signal to the electorate that you're fighting it, that you're taking it to the end. For the noodles of the far right and the Pamacedons, burn for nothing else! It is an extremist, voterial and populist policy that you are following. Unfortunately, that's the truth. I read in the New Democracy's recommendation, in the justification of the motion of censure, that there is poverty, there is insecurity in society, a lack of confidence and, obviously, there is also a retreat to the major national issue. I shall therefore speak of poorness, insecurity and lack of confidence in the health sector. By 2015, ladies and gentlemen, there was health poverty in the country and enormous insecurity of people who had lost their insurance capacity at the time of the disease. This social barbarism, this government in crisis, under conditions of austerity, under suffocating budgetary constraints, has overturned it to a great extent. Change the agenda. He proposed calling for universal coverage of citizens without discrimination, demanding support for the public health system, moralisation, the promotion of critical reforms. The previous political project was a dismantling of public care, a shrinking of public structures, a transfer of costs to the citizen, an exclusion of uninsured persons. So we have a change of political plan in the same Memorandum. And this has produced measurable results. Today, citizens, uninsured, who are still more than two million, are approached with dignity and at the same level as other citizens. This is a huge change, it is part of health policy in the social state, in the country, and it has obviously reversed this climate of poverty and insecurity in the field of health. It is an intervention that is constantly recognised. The World Health Organisation congratulates our country, which, despite the crisis and austerity, has been able to invest rather than cut resources. A total of EUR 1,1 billion is the additional investment in operating costs of the health system in the two medium-term programmes from 2015 to 2022. Very significant bloodshed of the health system, a very large injection of human and material resources has been made at this time. We have also ensured the survival of the ESS and, of course, the universal access of citizens. We have actually created a framework for removing inequalities and investing in the fundamental demand for equality in health. We have therefore acquired both credibility and confidence not only abroad. It has strengthened our country's international authority in general, but also because of the decent management of the refugee question We have therefore acquired credibility and trust, not only abroad but also internally. We have also gained the confidence of the people of the National Health System, who are aware of the great effort being made. They see the positive steps that have been taken and are measurable. In particular, they know very well what a lesser state means to health, what a public-private partnership means, what a market and competition is, that is, what the New Democracy's alternative health plan is supposed to be. They know very well where this will lead. I think that especially in the health sector, but also in all social and critical fronts, the Left and Right distinction is present and you will not be able to hide it behind the separation of patriots and traitors. The distinction between the Left and the Right is present, the present and the future of society, is about the present and the future of the world of work, collective goods, fair and sustainable development. So we, ladies and gentlemen, take the country out of the crisis, the memorandum and the comitology. We take the responsibility of closing critical national fronts. And that is obviously an extremely anti-popular line that is against the logic of avoiding political costs and collapsing in power, as you blame us. We have for the first time been implementing serious reforms, although you are the reformers. We are implementing serious reforms, progressive, socially speaking, both in the health sector and everywhere. We're opening up with corruption and viciousness. Unfortunately, you are investing in destruction, social polarization and showing every day how politically irresponsible, populist, bourgeoisie and ultimately unrepentant you are. But know you won't make it. You won't divide society. You will not impose cruelty and intolerance as a political climate in time. You're not going to return us to the climate of the post-National gendarmerie right. The wise, serious world of the country, the people of the fighting, the people of the real market economy want stability, they want security, they want prosperity, they want growth and they see that all this is questioned by the way you handle all the issues. That's why they'll turn your back on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Barkas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, in the morning, when I heard the Chief of Officerial Opposition presenting the motion of censure against the government, I thought what he really does not understand? What the leadership of the New Democracy really does not understand from a text that could be comfortable, easily understood by even a ten - year - old child. What was the actual pursuit of the New Democracy by tabling the motion of censure? What exactly is she hiding behind this commissioned act of her? What does it want to work? I think, therefore, that it is clear that it is the last way to block the country's exit from the memoranda, the end of the financial, social and political crisis that the country has been experiencing over the last eight years. It disturbs the leadership of the New Democracy, the role of the Government and SYRIZA, as a force that solves problems in terms of solidarity, cooperation and perspective. The historic juncture experienced by our country to come out of the memoranda and the committee by closing the fourth evaluation cannot be put in future. The different economic and social policy that we have conducted over all these years leads to an exit from the crisis. Your plan that, with masturbation, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have destroyed the left-hand parentheses has fallen into the void. That is, the government's plan, which has passed through solid stones, is beginning to yield. And it's what scares you. 'Cause you're being disturbed by the social state. Because you like memos. In our ears, the statements by your officials like: 'If the memorandum was not there, we should invent it'. "Don't charge it to the troika. It is my own” and other such narratives. So this government did not turn its head on the dogs that were barking along the way, because we would not have succeeded and we would never have reached our destination that is the exit from the memorials. But we didn't just stay in them. We have taken responsibility and submitted to the public debate a development programme, which can take us to the next day and shield our country so that we do not experience other such crises in the future, to shield the generations that come economic, social and politically. But you want to stay tied up in the past, because that suits you. That's what incites you. You live tightly with your business friends asking for loans and throwing some bones at you. Of course, you're asking for a lot. You are referring to a lot, apart from your responsibilities. And your responsibilities are too many. Ladies and gentlemen, with your motion of censure you have tabled winds and will reap storms. With this proposal, we also officially have the end of Karamanlisism in the New Democracy, a political stream which one can bring to him a great deal, good and bad. But political hunger cannot deliver it. The national line on a matter of national policy, which New Democracy served and cared for, has changed. That is, from the complex name, erga omnes and constitutional review you went to no solution. This line was served by the late Constantine Mitsotakis, Mrs Dora Bakoyannis and Mr Kostas Karamanlis. But the party's sunshine has been taken by others. And the line was replaced by the positions of Spring 1994 and LAS in 2008. Unfortunately, for you, but thankfully for the Greeks in the leadership of the country lies a strong, decisive and politically mature politician and a politically mature political leadership. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the government have assumed responsibility for giving a solution once and for all to a top foreign policy issue, which others have created. We therefore take the responsibility of resolving the problems that New Democracy and PASOK have created. We take the responsibility of strengthening the country's geopolitical position in the Balkans. Unfortunately for the Civic Opposition it has in its leadership a deficient leader, who is bound by those who brought him to the party's leadership and make him what they want. So the patriocalypse will be your last card. Mr. Mitsotakis is not entitled to know. The Macedonians don't need you. Because the Macedonians will once again turn your back on you, because you are laughing at your attitude. So we write history without you. We create that future for the next generations without you with a strong country, with a strong society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Barkas. It would be a good thing if you all were exemplified by the economy in its time. Mr. Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it would not be an exaggeration if I described the motion of censure as the epitome of nationalism. And I say this because you have made a dangerous mixture which in other times caused national disasters, despite the patriotic krone you are making from this Step and not just from that point of view. I say this because you are making a dangerous mix of social and economic issues with a misguided foreign policy problem, for which you have all the responsibility for the deadlock that has arrived. And because of the change in leadership in the neighbouring country, which unloads this Disneyland of nationalism, and thanks to the fact that there is a government here which has different principles and does not serve populism and nationalism, we can proceed to a consensus solution. I would call this agreement as the defeat of nationalism across borders. I know, of course, that this leaves many of the contractors of patriotism in this place. They don't have any work left, and I understand them. The bad news, however, is that you are passionate about the world, you do it, you are at risk, you create a climate of national humiliation, because you have nothing left. It is ideological poverty and the degeneration of a right that returns to its roots. That's it. And even some here are speaking, in a prosecutorial tone, not to say in a military style, threats that about Saturday will be expected to be the day of the great judgment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u307	Meaning?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u308	I don't know. You tell us on Saturday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u309	What do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u310	I'm saying you're threatening. But I would like to talk about an issue which you, of course, regard as taboo and which you abdicate on it, on the subject of language, because we must remember that. And because we are not with the theory - if I sum up your opinion - the 'no solution is the best solution', that is what you say to you, then, about the 'Macedonian language theme'. The "nationally correct" linguist, Mr Babiniotis, accepts the existence of a Macedonian language as a "lasting retreat". I would like to remind you that following the Treaty of Serbs and in accordance with the 1924 Geneva Protocol, the Greek State has undertaken to draw up a alphabet to the inhabitants of the Greek state who did not speak the Greek language. It was even published by Greek philosophers. It was printed in Latin characters. It was Joseph Lazarus and John Papazachari. In fact, he presented it in the League of Nations, the Greek accomplished Kingdom of Dedamis on November 10, 1925, saying: "The Macedonian language is different from the Bulgarian language and that is why this alphabet was made." That was the official position of the Greek government. However, the fact that it was written in Latin characters caused the reaction of Bulgaria and Serbia then. He didn't make it to school. Government Andreas Michalakopoulou, it was then. I would like to ask you if you would suggest that Mr Kamine dismantle his name from the street. Would you consider him a 'national broker' too? I would like to tell you that, with that logic you have, acting as the wheelchairs of history, you should put banishing marks in order not to speak of the various idiosyncrasies and languages that exist in the Greek area. But is this a conception of a modern state that respects international treaties and conventions? Aren't you in this way not collecting firearms for the nationalists around the world and against our compatriots? Because we hear the same arguments elsewhere. So you do not want to recognise and accept what he said - and here I close - Dionysius Solomon, that the nation must consider what is true nationally. You do not want to recognise this reality, which has naturally not been shaped in a peaceful manner. The multiple Balkans, as you know, went through the biggest turbulences and ethnic changes. Unfortunately the views of King Ferraios did not win, nor was the Balkan Socialist Federation, as the labour movement sought in its glorious days. It's been defeated. Nationalism won. The single Yugoslavia was dismantled. You cannot remove these from the debate that is taking place here and leave the government in terms, as many SYRIZA Members have rightly said, of a fayiatic nationalism, which fortunately died along with the junta.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u311	Thank you to Mr Mitafidis and to the accuracy of time. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, how many speakers are left?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u313	After Mr. Maniotis is Mr. Dimas, Mr. Igoumenides, Mr. Gregos and Mr. Sarakiotis. I've estimated that in about half an hour we'll be done. Depends on Mr. Maniots. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following a number of SYRIZA MPs and ministers all afternoon talking about the Greek Government's agreement - the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - with Skopje and not even one Member of Parliament, not even one Minister has made any mention of one single article. No SYRIZA MEP told us 'I support the agreement, because in this article, national rights or national laws are guaranteed in such a way'. Nobody! Do you know what SYRIZA MPs are doing? They denounce PASOK, Antipolitics and at the same time praise Andreas Papandreou, Mitsotakis, Karamanlis and all of this in order to create a greedy mystery, conspiracy, feasibility, just to escape the essence of the subject. I'll make an exception. I shall speak to you, Minister, on Article 1 of the Agreement, Article 8 of the Agreement and Article 13 of the Agreement. I come to Article 1, which is the culmination of the Skopje alutism. This is a problematic agreement, which is extremely heterogeneous against Greece, an agreement which deals with top issues, the top theme of our disagreements with Skopje as an unnecessary burden. That's how the deal handles it. It does not deal with it as a top, patriotic, national issue, but as something that we need to get rid of as soon as possible, get rid of the country, because it is obviously the way NATO, the Americans commands, or I don't know who else. You want proof? Ask yourself, colleagues of the SYRIZA - in your patriotic sense - what Greece is gaining from this agreement, namely what it wins. For as far as Skopje is concerned, I can tell you what they are winning. They gain, for example, their identity that is recognized for the first time by Greece. People are now called "Macedonians". That hadn't happened until now. And they also earn a second element: their language. Greece acknowledges that this language is Macedonian. And there's a little asterisk, a footnote that says this Macedonian dialect is a South-Slavic dialect. No one, that is, ever, anywhere on the first day the deal will be signed, will not sit down and see the asterisk. He'll know these people, our neighbors are talking to the Macedonian. The language with identity is the soul of a nation, the components of a nation. Secondly, the timing of the actions. I do not understand that logic of negotiation. We are giving green light to entry NATO, green light to enter the European Union and against it we take a promise in the future that 'will' in the future, probably after a referendum in the Constitution 'will apply some things'. I do not understand why the Greek Government does not make a synchronization of actions. On the same day that the NATO and Europe application will be promoted, the process of changing the constitution or any result of the referendum has been completed. Also in the same article - Article 1 - in paragraph e, ladies and gentlemen, what it says: The country codes - and we know that Greece's code is the 'GR' with which Greece is known worldwide - on car plates will change. Apparently you understand why. Because the Skopje come down all summers and are on holidays in Pieria and Halkidiki. We know. So it would be unthinkable to have the same plates. But come on, which in all others, all the products we do not see on the streets every day, for all the other services, etc., the name will remain with the old symbol, not the new one. In the same article, in Article 1, and I would like an answer, Mr Minister, in paragraph a, on the famous erga omnes, it says that the name will be 'North Macedonia' and will be used erga omnes, as provided for in this agreement. Minister, this little innocent, innocent strawberry as provided for in this agreement, why is it necessary? According to my own knowledge, 'erga omnes', i.e. use against anyone on the inside or abroad, says it all. Do you know what she's saying to me? That there are exceptions to the normal 'erga omnes' within this agreement. I am presenting Rule 1, which I have just mentioned, for the pervertalism. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I should also like to state Article 8 of the agreement which says that the two countries have agreed to set up joint committees to revise the historical books in schools in the two countries. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I don't feel like my homeland has a pervertalist tendencies against Skopje. I have, however, accepted that this committee will obviously be set up and will review the historical books of Greece as well. And I come to the last and most important, Article 13. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, this is where I would like your full attention. Article 13, colleagues of the SYRIZA, says: the second party - Skopje - is a closed state. Do you know what "complete state" means? It means a state that has no sea. And what does Article 13 say? That their relations with the relevant provisions of the United Nations Convention will be guided for this State. And what does the United Nations Convention say in Article 69 of the Law of the Sea, which I am tabling on the Minutes? It says that these States are entitled to have rights in the EEZ, in the exclusive economic zone of the States with which they border. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And here now comes the national, patriotic questions, which require answers. Question 1, why does this article need to be answered? Who imposed it? Why did the Greek side accept it? What's behind it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u315	Complete, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u316	I shall conclude, Mr President. Question No 2 by Skopje, colleagues of Northern Greece, other than Greece, which has sea, is also a border with Albania, which has sea, is also a border with Bulgaria, which has sea. Have you seen any place in the Skopje agreement with Albania and Bulgaria providing for an obligation for Albania or Bulgaria to grant rights to their exclusive economic zone for Skopje?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Maniotis, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u318	I shall conclude, Mr President. Half an hour ago the "father" of the Greek EEZ, Professor Karyotis, sent me an article, an article and he writes to me: "This is the first time that the coastal state has given me rights without having asked for these rights. This has never been done on the globe before." It sets out two examples: ‘Switzerland: Enclosed State. It is bordered by France that has sea, with Italy which has sea, with Germany which has sea. Switzerland has not requested entitlements to the EEZ of these countries’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Maniotis, you've reached ten minutes. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u320	‘And Austria: Enclosed State Austria. It borders with Italy and Germany. Not even Austria has requested rights in the EEZ of neighbouring countries’. It is therefore necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that you who will be invited by your Government to support this agreement, at least be in line with your patriotic sense. I really think that you still have little time to correct many of the bad texts of the agreement that we have before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. My colleague from New Democracy, Mr Dimas, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make something clear from the outset, so that we can all be informed. The motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy against the Government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks is a vote on whether the MPs of all parties accept the Tsipras - Zaev agreement. It is the authority of Mr. Tsipras to go or not to the Prespecies to sign the agreement with Zaev. In other words, it is a vote 'yes' to the agreement on the name of Skopje to 'North Macedonia' by handing over the Macedonian nation and language and by taking as the exchange some asterisks who, once the ink has been dried up, will immediately forget some doubtful future revisions of the neighbour's constitution. The time has come when during the Saturday's vote, the MPs of the Coupling and Reconciliation have an appointment with history, future history, whether or not we accept the name "North Macedonia" and whether we agree to be called "Macedonians" our neighbours and to speak "Macedonian language". On this date, however, you must remember the brilliant and glorious history of our country and our ancestors. From Philip, King of Macedonia, who managed to unite the Greeks and prepare the conquest of Persia, carried out by Alexander the Great, to many centuries later, the protagonist of the Macedonian Struggle, Paul Mella. So let each take responsibility not against his party, but against history. Because if Mr Tsipras goes and sign the agreement in Prespes, they are created featuring for the country, which will be very difficult to overturn in the future. We in the New Democracy have said very clearly from the very beginning that we will not divide the Greeks to unite the Skopje. However, I would like to highlight the hypocrisy and opportunism of some supposed patriots. I read you a statement from the "minth" 2014 President of the Independent Greeks in Thessaloniki: "For the sake of Macedonia, therefore, and of God and of the people, I answer to Panagiotto that the Independent Greeks will be the guarantee that no Samaras, no Venizelos and no Tsipras will negotiate the name of Macedonia. Macedonia is Greek and we do not accept a geographical definition. It is now clear that the Greek people demand elections. They cannot hand over Macedonia's name by giving an extension of life to a government, which has instructed Mr. Nimic Skopje to be called "North Macedonia". The Greek people now have to demand elections now. To leave the government that delivers the sacred and loyals of the country without even asking the Greek people." I give the Minutes the statement by Mr Kammenos. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, was the President of the Independent Greeks, without a ministerial chair, in 2014. What is interesting is that it has the courage to say: "In the face of gods and people we are the guarantee that no Tsipras will negotiate..." - not to agree, as has already happened - "...the name of Macedonia". But it says one more thing. It says that the Greek people must demand elections now, that the government that delivers the sanctuaries and loyals of the country, without even asking the Greek people. The President of the Independent Greeks of 2014, without a ministerial chair, responds, however, the President of the Independent Greeks of 2018 by ministerial chair just a few days ago, saying: "We do not agree and will not vote for the agreement with Macedonia" on the scorpion, but we will remain with the Government." Of course, he said he supports the government, that elections will take place in 2019 and that he is in direct consultation and in close cooperation with the Prime Minister." I also make this statement from Mr Kammenos in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The question is: Is it in direct consultation and in close cooperation on the issue of the name of Skopje, Mr Kammens? At the Ministerial Council, Mr Spirtzi, have you discussed the issue of the name of Skopje? The President of the Independent Greeks has announced to us that the agreement will not go to a referendum in the neighbour and in the Skopje Parliament, so everything is under control. In other words, the "guarantee before the god and people" that the next government will not hand over the term "Macedonia" was not about what the Independent Greeks will do to the Greek Parliament and within the government, but about what the Independent Greeks think will happen in the Skopje parliament. But the possibility that the Skopje will do what the Tsipras Zaev Agreement describes and thus bind Greece with this bilateral agreement, including NATO and the European Union, has considered it, or so irresponsiblely makes such important decisions? See, however, the magnitude of the hypocrisy of the President of ANELs with a statement a few days before the elections in January 2015 in Kozani: "Well, to explain from here, from Macedonia, the next government with Independent Greeks will have no composition of the term "Macedonia" the next name of Skopje. And in order to say the figs - figs - ships, as we have thrown the Samara - Venizelos government, so I will drop the next government if they go to sell even an inch of Greek land and Greek law." I make Mr Kammenos's statement on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, according to the statements made by the President of the Independent Greeks himself, the figs - figs and vessels - do not say them because he prefers, in his statement, to remain in the government of Mr Tsipras. The lies of the President of the Independent Greeks run so fast that they could win the Grand Prin in Monaco! And even if the President of the Independent Greeks does not want to leave the government, how do the members of the Independent Greeks agree to remain in this party? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I shall end. How do they agree to authorise Mr. Tsipras to go to the Prespes by their vote to sign the agreement on the scorpion? In conclusion, obviously, whoever votes in favour of the government is actually voting in favour of the Tsipra - Zaev agreement. It is a bad, problematic and unacceptable national retreat. So we have reached the point where there are no more excuses. Let each individual assume his responsibilities towards history, against himself and against our homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. Mr. Igoumenides has the floor. Mr Gregos and Mr Sarakiotis are left to finish. Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Big words and big ones. "Let us face our conscience," said Mrs Antoniou. Personally, as a Member of the Left at every moment of my parliamentary activity - so I understand it, I cannot understand it any differently - I feel and understand that I am dealing with my conscience. Why does the New Democracy propose reproach against the government? Let's try to approach it. Of course, we will need an effort from you, colleagues in the New Democracy, from the micro-policy you are trying to put aside the small one and talk a little bit politically. Bad lies, two lines clash for exiting the crisis. One line is the proposal you have, which says that if we get out of the crisis, we need a lesser state, less spending of the state is needed. So a cut in wages. It's not coming out? And a reduction in pensions. It's not coming out? And reduction of workers, redundancies and unemployment. It's not coming out? And a reduction in pensioners, an increase in the limits for someone to be retired. Reduction of public education expenditure. Reduction of public health expenditure. It's the line that you followed and applied, and our people lived, who basically led...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u325	All this was in the plan you voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Kyriazides, he hasn't climbed a man to Stepma and hadn't intervened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u327	It's time too heavy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Cryazides, please very much. Help us a little bit to finish. Continue, Mr. Igoumenides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u329	It is the line that you have followed and lost 25% of the country's GDP. And in this broken society that you created, you saw an investment magnet, no matter how much you didn't bring to Greece. Against this is the line that we have, to get out of the crisis with society upright, the line that faces and solves problems in terms of social solidarity, dignity, justice, perspective. You don't want that. It's legitimate. And it is entirely consistent with your position that the motion of censure, as it started in January 2015, when you tried to give us a left-hand parentheses. It's a fair and acceptable reason. Why else is New Democracy making a motion of censure? They say the bad languages - it has also been said in some places, I have heard no answer to deny it - that some New Democracy officials 'given their change' or possibly the New Democracy party as a whole 'gifts its change', because they feel the hot breath of justice and the demand of our people for justice to embrace them. Near psalm of each other! We'll see. The third reason why the New Democracy is making a motion of censure is the issue of Skopje, the issue of our neighbours in the North. Firstly, our people, ladies and gentlemen, but also the Left, have a great deal of experience. He has lived through the situations of patriocapilia, has lived through this auction of nationalism, he has experienced the screaming. In any case, it is clear that such a treatment is far from us. To make it clear here, before I go further, that, as I do not question patriotism - and I am referring to colleagues in the democratic arch - I will not tolerate any of you claiming that I am less patriot than he is, I will not tolerate any of you to question my patriotism. I believe, however, that sobriety and coolness are needed to deal with this issue. One of the prisoners. Several ministers and fellow Members have mentioned in their speeches what has happened, they have made a historic regression, they have referred to the documentary that is in place, what names have been negotiated by all to date by negotiators. I am not going to talk about this. There has been something else: so many issues you have left open. Why open this up, too? Leave it where it is. Mr Mitsotakis has made many statements in the last six months and among the various proposals he has made, he has proposed that we do not solve this now, be resolved later. So let's see, ladies and gentlemen, where is this issue? First, a hundred and forty countries, including the USA, Russia, China and India, the four-five of the world's population, are called Macedonia. Is it like this or not? "You give the name of our people," PASOK's colleague said. So, what name do they have now? And they are all negotiators and all those who have discussed to date. I didn't stand up to what happened, what names they used and what fell on the table. What name are they talking about? Secondly, do they have a constitution that speaks of alutism and of minorities in Greece that they must protect? Third, their army, their officers, where are they trained? Fourthly, it is a country that has recognized the pseudo-state of Cyprus. Aren't you telling me, ladies, do you like this whole picture? We say that the problem for the Skopje is that they want to enter international organisations and they are being pressed. Really, that 4/5 of the planet tells them "Macedonia" doesn't pressure you when it's been twenty-five years in this situation? How many years does it have to go through to be regarded as retaliatory? If you want, these developments recently with the northern neighbours in conjunction with the rest and the developments we have in relation to Albania, are you really questioning the Muslim arch in the Western Balkans, are you counting it at all or not? Do you believe that Turkey's aggression has only to do with the mineral wealth of southern Cyprus and southern Crete? I believe - to conclude, ladies and gentlemen - and because a lot of people have heard that we are intervening with history, etc., let us see, although the poet did not write it about the occasion, seeing the situation as a whole, I would say that the attitude on the subject is clear among politicians, but also among political leaders, those who actually write history from those who say, fatal and inappropriate, perhaps in return for a miracle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u332	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u333	As Mr Maniotis referred to a number of things, let him sit down and read the 1995 interim agreement on what he said. It's exactly the same article. I don't want to expand, because it's just last time. Let's sit down and read the interim agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Gregus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Many speakers and many memorial chair fighters spoke, of course. I have had the pleasure and great honour of joining the Greek Nationalist Movement, the Golden Dawn, since the early 1990s. It was then that we went down to the rally for our Macedonia, proudly holding the banners in our hands, to join our voice with the hundreds of thousands of Greeks who had flooded Thessaloniki, from a tip to the edge. We were not many at that time, but we had flames in heart and faith in national ideals. Since then and so far, however, more and more and more have always been believers where it was necessary to say that we are not even discussing the name and history of our Macedonia. Through our publications, with events, talks, with interventions of every kind, we have always stood against every effort of the bridesmaids who aim to falsify our history and the tradition and whistle the name from the neighboring motto. The first card of our newspaper was entitled "No compromise for our Macedonia". Since then a lot has been done so far. The country's political system had implemented the betrayal plan. We knew. We've been talking about it. In addition, the country's political system has given many examples of foreign policy. A few years later, moreover, Imian treason was also carried out by the Shiite government. Concessions and concessions continued with the change in power either of PASOK, of the New Democracy or of SYRIZA and always in the logic of not claiming anything. And we have come today, with the Government - a form of SYRIZA - ANEL, to grant everything to the Skopje so that - they say - we have stability in the region and good neighbourly relations. Of course, that is a pretext. Symbols, blinded by their unwilling hatred, try to entrust a name, nationality, language, territories, history, culture to the Skopje. Of course illegally, unlike the will of the Greek people, who are despising but also trembling. They despise the people's will and shatter the people's wrath that breaks out throughout the country for what they have committed so far and for what they want to commit. This is how the symmetrical and other fake leftists learned from youths. Liberals, of course, when they are at ease, but always loyal internationalists and stateless men. But what do you expect SYRIZA's youth to say in her physiological mind? Because it is against and risk that a young man will fall into such a political trap and become registered for SYRIZA youth. And since we are talking about youths, because here there is the huge risk of our children being contaminated by the ideas of internationalism and multiculturalism, here, as parents, we need to control books and teachers, but above all we need to talk to our children, to show them the appropriate historical books and to tell them, above all, that Macedonian and Slavs will never become Macedonians, as much as political agreements, and that you, either the false right-wings or the poor of the river, who will gladly play the role of the municipality in this shameful and betrayal agreement. I am also surprised that speakers of the so-called constitutional arch have been written. The position of the Communists has been recorded in every detail. We're living historical times. Home has fallen into the nails of people dangerous and extremist. Maybe, if we look, some of them were to burn Greek flags a few years ago. Some also support openly and terrorists many times. We had warned about who these people were. And, of course, their goal is to destroy the country. A country without a border. A country's financially impoverished. A country drowned in illegal immigrants and all kinds of criminals. A country without culture and customs. A home with relaxed habits. A country without present and future. A country's raffle on international loan shark mountains. A home filled with desperate and devastated moral citizens, begging for a false allowance. A country with no symbols of the star of Vergina, but a lousy cloth in the colors of the rainbow. A country that "Greece belongs to the Greeks" is racist and the national attitude is persecuted by every means. A home of stateless, opportunistic and well-being. Some have dared in here to say at times that we are following New Democracy or SYRIZA. We don't look like anyone. We have not been infected and will not be infected with the rotten and corrupt political system. We grew up with the ideals of love at home. We served in every corner of Greece, in Evros, Cyprus, in the Aegean islands. As one of our publications used to write, we have folded our uniform in our home and the march sheet in the drawer and are ready to defend our home, whenever and when needed, from internal and external enemies. In any case, many of the golden people, who dare and catch in your mouth, are descendants of Macedonian and heroes in all battles for the freedom of the country. We will keep the flags up, we will be proud in our cities, and we will be at the rally where necessary. We, together with the Greek people, will not let our country be lost. You're going to be recorded in the blackest story. Hands off Macedonia. The government must fall. No tolerance for the Members who support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Grego, and for the economy in time. As we say in good Greek, last but not left, Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor for seven minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days we have been following developments in the negotiations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the final agreement reached and I sincerely want to say this to our colleagues in the Staff Regulations: as far as this is concerned. Let us finally allow this country, which is so afflicted by your awkward manipulations - including foreign policy issues - to get out of its way, to stop looking at the tree instead of the forest. Instead of giving explanations and taking on the historical responsibilities of the problem that you are fully responsible for, you come and exercise a profoundly divisive policy, thus poisoning public debate. Instead of apologizing and self-criticizing for your things, you are adopting a style of a thousand cardinals and admonishing. Who's that? The government, which dared and has not transferred its responsibilities to the next indifferent to the national interest? History is repeated as a farce and today comes Mr. Samaras, the political child, as he claims, of the late Evangelos Averov, to continue his glorious political career as another Gruevski of Greece. Well, congratulations. And higher! Leaders from around the world and journalistic agencies congratulate the agreement reached, and only the New Democracy of Mr. Samaras and Georgiadis is in line with the extreme right-wing opposition of the neighbouring country, which claims "we have all been taken by Greece". Does phrase remind you of anything? Just change the name of the country and the staff of the political Arabist are the same. May Mr Mitsotakis forgive me, but I have chosen to address the real leadership of his party. After all, it is clear that he does not disagree with this rhetoric. So speaking of political affinity Averof - Samaras, it is worth remembering what the infamous President of the New Democracy said in the year 1959: "Macedonian language is spoken in Skopje and has grammar and editorials". Constantine Mitsotakis confirms the political affinity of the House in 1991, saying: 'In the Council of Foreign Ministers Mr Samaras had accepted during the debate on the Rules of Procedure that democracy should be mentioned under the name of 'Macedonia'. Historical analgesia, mistakes over time, but also terrible today's philosophicalism. This is the case of the "user Minister of Foreign Affairs from the payment of the Greek state", as your current Vice-President, Mr. Georgiadis, called it. We have been called upon to manage this case, because criticism of the agreement could be reasonable if it came in the year 1992, 1993 or shortly thereafter. However, it is not valid in the year 2018, when cubs have been prevalent, recurring on recurring from your - otherwise - nationalist governments. Twenty-five years lost inactivity and procrastination, which were simply to the detriment of our national interest. These are such ideological and political misgivings that you arrived to have the Vice-President who said in 2007: "This incredible retreat, in order not to use a heavier expression, this incredible scoundrel of Macedon - terror of Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis, who entered history as the man, as the Prime Minister who sold Macedonia. This is the reality." Today, you agree with those who exulted Konstantinos Mitsotakis, who called the traitors Kostas Karamanlis and Dora Bakoyannis, who admitted in 2008 that a name such as "Ur Macedonia" or "New Macedonia" would be acceptable. You've made your choices. You prefer to transform a historic party, such as the New Democracy, into a far right-wing corporation, into a great People's Orthodox Alert. Do you prefer to preserve the political careers built on the Macedonian, as what will become of them without barbarians? After showing memorial political irresponsibility, you come and file a motion of distrust against the government invoking your patriotic reflexes, according to your will, faithful to the tradition of Ioannis Kolettis, the great proclamations and the simultaneous undermining of any attempt to escape the country from misery and introvert. "It is unacceptable for hypocrisy in the name of national pride and national intransigence to accept that this state should remain under the name of "Macedonia" and not accept a complex name." These words belong to Constantine Mitsotakis, not so far away from 1994. I call on everyone to assume their responsibilities, if anything, of mistakes and stop poisoning Greek society with one, as Panagiotis Kondylis called it, neurological nationalism, which is ultimately nationally detrimental and deeply opposed to all true meanings of Greekity. We must face our geopolitical environment with confidence and at the same time committed to balancing emerging threats and turning our backs to germ and fear of no reason and cause. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u338	Thank you to Mr Sarakiotis and to the economy of time. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-06-14-S1-commons.u339	With the consent of the House at 1.53' the sitting is closed for Friday, June 15, 2018 at 9.30', on the subject of the House's work: continue the debate on the motion of censure against the government, submitted by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and seventy-fifth Members of the Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
