ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to make a statement to this House: The Standing Committees on Economic Affairs, Morphic Affairs, Social Affairs, Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Trade have submitted their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Agreements for the implementation of the structural reforms of the Economic Adjustment Programme and other provisions". Also, MP Mrs Chrysula Katsavria - Sioropoulou asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad, from Thursday 18 January to Sunday 21 January 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Agreements for the implementation of the structural reforms of the Economic Adjustment Programme and other provisions'. The above draft law was characterised by the Government as urgent and by the Co-presidential Committees of Economic Affairs, Morphic Affairs, Social Affairs, Public Administration, Public Orders and Justice and Trade have, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, accepted by a majority its designation as an emergency. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 8 January 2018 to discuss the draft law in two single sessions on principle, articles, amendments and all. I propose that in the debate, apart from the rapporteurs - special speakers and parliamentary representatives, and an independent MEP should take part. I also propose that there should be three circles of speakers. In each cycle, six speakers from SYRIZA will speak, three speakers from the New Democracy, one from the Democratic Alliance - Golden Dawn, from the Communist Party of Greece, from the Independent Greeks and a certain speaker from the Central Association and a certain speaker from the Potami, as well as a speaker from the Independent MPs. I would like to tell you that yes we have come to the Chamber, but on Monday, if we need a roll-call vote, it will take place in the old traditional way, because the new way of voting has not yet been tested. Also, from one point onwards the bearings have no microphone. So the speaker I am going to announce - before the previous speaker is finished - will have to move from his post to a microphone that has a microphone so that he can speak. There are no records. The debate is organised. The parties have given their MPs who will speak in three circles. Today, according to the list sent to us by the Secretary of Government, four ministers will speak. Minister Chakalotos will speak late this afternoon, as we were told. The other ministers are Mr Papadimitriou, Mr Baxvanakis and Mrs Konordos. The information we have is that there may be two amendments which I have requested may have been tabled by 12: 00-12: 30 at noon, so that Members can have them in their hands for the second sitting on Monday. An effort will be made and this will be possible to end with the rapporteurs and speakers, at least with both Members' circles today, because on Monday, as expected, the parties' leaders will perhaps speak, and this should not be at the expense of colleagues. If we keep time in this respect, I think that a reasonable time for this to be completed for today is around 9 to 10 and go for Monday. Don't tie it up. We will see it in the course of the sitting this afternoon. I would suggest to the President of Parliament that we begin at 10 a.m. on Monday morning to have enough time. Those who are going to come up for the vote and the services of the House nor fleas on their crust with the four hundred articles. I am not talking about any roll-call votes. I am referring to the normal vote. For four hundred articles you realize that we want more than an hour just by speaking. Mrs. Peripheru tells me I'm too optimistic for the hour and a half that I told you. He'll need more. If, therefore, there is no objection to this proposal on the proceedings of the sitting, we shall begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, just to know on Monday what time we are starting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u4	Before today's sitting is over, and if possible by noon we will have reached the agreement with Mr Voutsi and all Members will know it in good time. I understand that for colleagues in the region. Does the House agree with the procedure I have proposed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u5	So the House unanimously agrees with the procedure I have proposed. So we can start with SYRIZA's general rapporteur, Ms Maria Triantafyllou. Here you go, Mrs. Triantafel, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. With the draft legislation that is being passed today, the third assessment will be completed and the road will be opened - a very difficult road - towards regularity. We are still striving for fiscal stability and the closer we will find ourselves in achieving productive transformation, fair and sustainable development. Only if these objectives are achieved, will we be able to talk about a real exit from the memoranda and the comitology. We must plan for the future, the next day, so that there can be a lasting and stable recovery that runs on a solid basis, not on clay feet, in bubbles of the intangible economy. After eight years it seems that August 2018 will mark the end of the memorials, the end of the hard commission. It is known that all the potential of the country has been looted by those who have so far been in power, by those who are currently breaking their clothes for corruption and inefficiency of the government, by those who have been ruling or co-governing so many years have led to the destruction by industrialisation of the country, by extinction of a number of branches, by depreciating agricultural production, by fragmenting available funds in the construction of pharaonic works, by concrete and remembrances of contractors with Olympic works, and not only by those who have been bound by blood ties with the parasitic economy, by tax havens, by market bubbles, by class bonds, by them, by the New Democracy and the PASOK, who have started to rethink the interest of the country. In such a climate, in this situation, SYRIZA became a government in the country with a broken social state, with collapsed health, education and insurance, with ever more flexible labour relations, with reduced GDP of the country. We have to say that SYRIZA searched desperately for space and time for his existence and found them. He looked for time to understand the conditions, to coordinate and realistic strategic planning, with the aim of getting the country out of the memorandum, the comitology. And we're sure that the people, who never wear blindfolds, but have only needs, recognizes that. SYRIZA managed to block downwards, achieved positive growth rates, even less than the older for the Greek economy. It has achieved a more rapid increase in employment, a continuing decline in unemployment, an increase in industrial output, an increase in the risk of entrepreneurial confidence. The largest industrial activity since 2008 occurred in 2017. We must say that in these circumstances the specific plan comes in. We have also told the committees - it is important to say this today - that it is a bill which does not include budgetary measures or does not include purely budgetary measures. He's got a lot of reforms. It has - fortunately this time - some regulations concerning the country's productive powers and regulations that were absolutely necessary to be made, such as the Stock Exchange, the Peace Exchange, the Quaestor's Code, regulations on medicines, breadmakers and others. An effort is also made through certain arrangements to combat bureaucracy and open up investment opportunities. Included are many provisions in a new framework for the granting of pre-school allowances, a new child benefit, a new framework for the licensing of radio stations, a new framework for the operation of casinos, a change in the status of fines. The Department of Economic Crime Surveys is set up, a new framework for consumer protection. It's getting a cap on fixed-term contracts. All auctions are now online. The issue of a quorum for a strike decision to be taken in the primary operational unions is amended. I begin with the three bills mentioned in the Ministry of the Environment and included in the bill. The first is the creation of the National Stock Exchange. A new entity, as is the case in all European countries, in which the CRP is incorporated, is the public limited company "National Stock and Mapping", as well as existing real estate offices and mortgage offices. We have heard the views of the institutions. Of course, not all operators agreed. There were conflicting positions. However, I would say that the issue of the Land register is an issue that should have been solved for several decades and has not been solved. We should say that all European countries have a real estate register and I should say that the existence of a real estate register is self-evident. Of course, I have heard the remark from the Communist Party of Greece that said that even this is because it is as if we really want to show what we are going to give. Let's show what public property is and what we'll give. Public property must be recorded. And it has to be recorded in a safe way and there are rules. From there on, however, how you generally manage the country's economy is another matter. Let's not confuse things. The National Register should have been held decades ago. The experienced, multi-standard and so effective colleagues who have managed to do so have not done so, so today comes this bill - a section on the National Register, which together with the thirty-two studies that have been published, twenty-eight of them have already been signed and we have to say that planning is taking place in this country, precisely because the issue of forest maps is going on. Greece will also receive a comprehensive register for almost 80% of its territory in 2020. Here I have to say to the committee - and I have said to you - the forest maps, which are a very important process which is completed, that 0.8% - if I remember correctly, that is what Mr Famelos said - they gave us validated forests. In our view, the first is that all workers are part of this body. The second element, which is very important, is that this new body is a legal entity governed by public law. We insisted on this because legal control and the safeguarding of citizens' rights is a exercise of public authority and can therefore only be entrusted to a State-owned body. This increases the legal certainty that the citizen is gaining and there is a rapid service. The second bill, which is included in the Ministry of the Environment, is the quarantine code, the quarantine bill. It aims at modernising the research and exploitation of quarrying and mining activities. Indicatively, some innovations are introduced, such as rationalisation and the uniform treatment of procedures, but also the time for renting and granting of permits for quarrying. There is a simplification of the procedure for authorising the carrying out of research and development operations, with a view to a simple, clear and stable framework. Reform the process of defining the quartz areas, exploiting inert materials to ensure adequacy of structural materials at national level, quality of materials produced on the basis of European standards, and integration of the quartz areas into the country's spatial planning. Of course, we would say that the restoration of the environment is in a stricter context. In other words, there are provisions in a stricter context, in relation to the restoration of the environment and cultural heritage, as well as security and supervisory control, they are carried out in a more stringent context. Moving on, I'd like to talk about the Energy Exchange. It is a very long debate to talk about energy in general. We told the committees that too. It's not the object of this bill. I will only say two - three provisions in relation to the Energy Exchange. We all know how to move from the most conventional actions to renewable energy sources. It is important that renewable energy is now being chosen internationally and pan-Europeanly. He wants a lot of discussion about how they're chosen. However, I would like to say that, in the case of the Energy Exchange, in essence through this piece of legislation, there is the aim of creating a common architecture in the European Union, which will lead to the combination of the markets of the countries of the European Union, to encouraging open and fair competition in the interests of the final consumer. Let me point out this: The creation of this expanded electricity market that operates in common rules, along with cross-border trade, enables at any time - and this is important and we must say it - the deficit that can arise temporarily in any country that is compensated for by the surplus of another country on market terms. Why is that? Although it may be dangerous, and I understand it and always has something to do with it, I say again, in the European Union itself and internationally, and how each government manages these issues, I would like to say that an effort is being made in this way to ensure adequate supply, but also a lower energy cost, with a view to the gradual convergence of the energy prices of the single energy market. Something very important in the plan, which has been a lot of talk about, is family allowances. There was a lot of talk, and there was a reaction from the multitude. I would like to say that in a number of multitasks the percentage is actually reduced. But I want to say some evidence. First of all, it is an innovation that family allowances are given for the first time in dialects and single-tenacs, that is to say in families with one or two children. We must also say that 260 million more money is being given. I mean, we've got a 40% increase. Here are the numbers. Numbers say that eight hundred four thousand people get family allowances. Of these eight hundred four thousand, the seven hundred thirty-eight thousand see an increase in family allowances. And because I see that my colleague is concerned about the Democratic Association for Third-Tetes, you cannot hide anything under the carpet. When there is this reduction, there is this reduction. But there was, once again, a requirement - the architecture of which is being given - by lenders in fact there are two categories. This meant that, unfortunately, we would not have for many families the grant of allowances and therefore this was chosen. Of course, there is a lot of talk about the demographic problem. The demographic problem is not solved - and we must all understand it - with benefits. The demographic problem is solved, since there are real structures that will strengthen the family, the mothers who will have their children to take to nurseries, there will be structures, good schools. That's how it solves the demographic problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, there is a tolerance because the bill is too great. I would like to move quickly to the provisions of the Ministry of Digital Policy and say that, of course, in this vast and free space that existed for the channels over the years, we have seen that through a proper procedure organized and safeguarded by the PSE, they have applied for six channels. Again, there was a good procedure, a procedure based on which law? According to Nikos Pappa's anti-constitutional law. In relation to the provisions mentioned in the Ministry of Digital Policy, we have to say very briefly that for radio stations the licensing procedure is conducted by the PSE, which will issue the relevant notice. I listened carefully to Mr Moronis, who said from the outset that he expressed his personal views. He said of course - and I do not forget - that the PSE was not asked. I think that, anyway, the PSE will 'run', it will carry out the process, so I think it is also necessary to say what it says. The second thing is that licences are distinguished in national and regional terms. I have listened very carefully, I think, to a spokesman who spoke on this matter and said, 'What is the need for pan-Hellenicism?' I would say that there is a need for pan-Hellenicism, because there are political issues, cultural issues, which are important to be heard throughout Greece and that there are such stations in Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I mean, by decision of the Minister for Digital Policy and with the agreement of the PSE...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u7	And that's what you're closing up with, Mrs. Triantafel.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I'm sorry to say this, but yesterday we said and I ask for tolerance...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u9	I've already given it to you by three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I apologise for interrupting you, but yesterday we said that because we did not have a dentistry and all the rapporteurs were here, we could reach at least eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u11	No, forget it. You're closing in thirty seconds. There will be the same tolerance for all the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u12	If I could have a minute, thank you in advance. I would like to say something that is very important and I do not want to go through it under any circumstances, although there are two important regulations in both health and work. I'm going straight to work, because I don't think there should be any dark line left around this. In any case, the question of strike is very serious in itself. We said yesterday: there are two regulations first. For the CBS, for the compensation, and for the accidents at work, they were said. When an employer is responsible and fails to comply with the insurance measures, it is as if the employer had a fraud and therefore has to compensate the worker. I don't want to get past the strike. There's an impediment. I mean, it creates a stumbling block...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u13	Mrs. Triantafel, don't embarrass me. I'm fixing your time. One minute to say something that applies to everyone. I'll make a suggestion. The rapporteurs are the only ones to have a dentist for six minutes. If, then, one of the rapporteurs wants, beyond two, three minutes of tolerance, to tell me at the time when he starts, to put his second-guessment into action, but to be clear that on Monday his second-guess will not exist - so that you can have a relative comfort. I understand that it is four hundred articles and in twelve minutes one cannot develop them, but the procedure has not been chosen by the plenary. The government chose it and the time is specific. I'll put you in three more minutes and hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u14	All seventeen minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u15	No, it's not seventeen. It was fifteen and thirteen. I've written them. Anyone who wants to use will, plus two, three minutes of tolerance. So it won't be eighteen minutes, Mr. Constantinople. It's gonna be 20, 20 minutes. But it will be written in the Minutes that there will be no dentistry on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u16	For those who use dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u17	It's a little unfair for our rapporteur, because that's what's going on in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u18	Finish, my colleague, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u19	That's quite a fait accompli for me. Thank you very much for the tolerance, but you understand that I, too, would like at least half of my dentistry. Let me negotiate it like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u20	There's no such procedure here. Let me know if you'll get all the dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u21	Then I'll finish now. Although I'm saying I'm putting the request again. To say two things about the strike. The first thing is that it actually creates a stumbling block. In other words, when we talk about small business unions, I think they have other difficulties. They're small, they're more detached, etc. It's not forbidden for the strike, not at all. It only raises to half the required presence - not to be left to the end - at the general meeting of the financially settled members. I said again and yesterday that to be honest, and what matters is that the primary unions and, more generally, the trade union movement, which in this way was used by the centre-left, mainly PASOK and actually degenerate, do not suffer from quorum issues. They suffer from issues of effective participation and legitimacy by their own members. Labour unions are either primary or not, in so far as they are dynamic, class and democratic, are to seek large and much larger than half, what we call 'participation during the processes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u22	Mrs. Triantafel, don't put me in a hard position to close the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u23	One last.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u24	No, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u25	We have taken responsibility for getting the country out of the memoranda and that is what we will do. To this end, we'll never get back. We do not want to in any case - and that is the problem - to be a waste of the past. The Left will never be a waste of the past again, and SYRIZA will keep up with this process as much as it can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Dimas, come to Stepma. I'll give you sixteen minutes. If you need your dentistry, you'll tell me. The sixteen minutes are because I have also shown tolerance to Mrs Triantafyllou. The same will be done with all my fellow rapporteurs and speakers. Finally, if you want your dentistry, you'll tell me. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I read the press release of SYRIZA on 16-8-2015: "The President of SYRIZA Alexis Tsipras met today with the Bureau of the Hellenic Association of Multi-Technicians. At the meeting, SYRIZA’s president said, among other things, “The multiple families were one of the biggest victims of the anti-social cuts that were promoted in the years of the memorandum. With the cuts to the detriment of multitude families, the Samara - Venizelos government violated their constitutionally guaranteed right to special care by the state. But it also violated its own constitutional obligation to design and implement demographic policy, exacerbating even more the crucial for the future of the country”. And now the best: "SYRIZA has the political will, in the context of his programme to deal with the humanitarian crisis, to gradually restore the injustices and losses of the incomes and rights of the multiple families, which have taken place in the years of the memorandum." I'm filing the press release in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's see some examples of our law and the law of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. Three-way family with income of 23,000 euros with the law of ours until today received an allowance of 1,980 euros a year. By law SYRIZA - Independent Greeks will receive 1.344 euros, i.e. it loses 1/3 of its allowance. Another example. Spacious family with four children and an annual income of 26,000 euros. Obviously, you consider them very rich. By law ours until today he received 2,640 euros a year. By law SYRIZA - Independent Greeks will receive 2,016 euros a year, i.e. it loses 1/4 of its allowance. As Mr. Tsipras says, it was just and it was done. Let me remind you that in the New Democracy Government in 2012 an increase in the budget of EUR 250 million was made for family allowances. We gave an allowance from the first child with income criteria and a special allowance to third and multitude families. For the first time in this way there has been practical support from the first child in the family. The size of your indifference to the threeteen and tents is evidenced by the fact that SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks did not vote for the introduction of the special allowance to threeteen and tenteen families. But your hypocrisy is immeasurable. On 5 February 2013, three SYRIZA MPs tabled a question to the Minister of Labour, Mr. Brutsis. The question was: "Emergency and condemnation of the poverty of the government's three-and-a-half families." So they ask the three SYRIZA Members: 'Are you considering the adoption of a new regulatory framework for the granting of upgraded three-tier and multi-Technical allowances, or at least reintroduce them to levels up to 31-12/2012, given that the current provisions are clearly unfair and unequivocal?' I believe that the then Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsis, owes a new response to the members of the SYRIZA. For the record, the three MPs of SYRIZA who signed the question were Alexis Tsipras, Dimitris Sollis and Thanasis Petrakos. I put the question in the Minutes, saying that at least two of the three can be proud that they have remained stable and loyal to their principles and beliefs. It is no coincidence that the word 'associated' has become international with Mr Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me read you a very interesting letter just received by the Prime Minister yesterday by a current SYRIZA MEP. "Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. and Mr. Minister, with the recent multi-lingual draft discussed in the relevant committees, in particular with the relevant provisions of the Ministry of Labour, the possibility of obtaining the multi-texts of the three-text allowances for a large number of families with three or more children is essentially abolished. Although the budget is increased by 40%, there is an injustice - Mrs Fotio, I suppose - to the detriment of three-tiers and tenants with incomes of more than 13 500 euros. This is because of the strictness of the conditions governing the grant of the allowances for third parties and polytecnets and, in particular, because of the horizontalisation of terms without the necessary and justified ratings based on the number of children protected. It is inconceivable that there should be no graduation of family income according to the number of children. The concern, discontent and protest of these families, which will now be excluded or reduced instead of an increased allowance from a left-wing government, is, I believe, justified. Knowing the sensitivities of everyone as to the will to strengthen the weak citizens and to stimulate the winter Greek family and to address the demographic problem, please very much as you review the terms and conditions of benefits based on their real economic needs." I'm not talking about it. He says it now, a member of the SYRIZA, who I assume will not vote for this provision. I'm filing the letter in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u28	His name?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u29	It's in the Minutes. Let me say, however, that even if the allowance for each child was well higher than you are presenting, the cost of living for each family for the last three years during the last three years of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks has increased greatly, thus becoming unbearable. According to your information, one in two citizens owe money to the tax office, more than one million debtors have suffered forced collection measures, i.e. confiscation or confiscation of property, about a thousand seizures are made daily and, in addition, hundreds of thousands of debtors are directly at risk of seizures. The OECD recently declared Greece a global tax champion. The World Economic Forum in the recent annual report on the competitiveness of the economy ranks Greece in the last hundred and thirty-seven countries in the impact of taxation on incentives for investment and in the last place in the impact of taxation on labour incentives. All this explains very simply: Twenty-seven new taxes you have put, two increases in VAT rates, you have increased insurance contributions, which have led to more than seventy-seven thousand businesses in the last two and a half years, more than a hundred thousand free professionals having closed their books in the last one and a half years, the dues of individuals, that is, the money owed by citizens and businesses to tax, now exceed 100 billion. And let me tell you, because you love to blame the previous ones, that the 25 billion have been created on your own days, that is, 1/4 of private debt is your creation. Therefore, a much more substantial policy for all households, for the family and for the country would be a real reduction in taxation, especially indirect taxes, which are the most unfair. But you are also the government that designs its digital policy, depending on which minister wins the king's flush. This alone shows the lack of basic gravity and planning and the size of irresponsibility. In fact, however, the flute has been earned by those who put pressure on you for the auctions of even the first home, or even for the tax debts of EUR 500. I read from the Polynomial Plan: “From 21-2-2018 the auctions are conducted exclusively by electronic means, regardless of the time of the cheque and the imposition of the confiscation.” From the famous slogan: "No house in the hands of a banker", we arrived with the vote of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks in the new slogan: "The home of the owner by e-mail to the banker".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u30	What's your proposal? Let me hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u31	The size of your hypocrisy and irresponsibility, however, has no limits and stop. A few months ago you mocked the public contractors that you supposedly legalized them and shared false promises once again, without having the courage to tell the truth. You are currently bringing the provision in Article 242, which you are obviously legislating under the pressure of the institutions, because they consider you completely unreliable, in which you underline the following: ‘Appointments and recruitment of staff to the General Government bodies in cases of compliance with judicial decisions recognising a fixed duration of employment of a staff member as an indefinite period of time or covering organic posts of permanent staff or staff under an indefinite private law contract may be made only if the limits on the expenditure on salaries and pensions laid down in the medium-term programme are complied with’. And I continue: "It is forbidden to convert the employment relationships of temporary staff recruited with any relationship of a certain duration drawn up under the rules of private law into contracts of indefinite duration." Now go explain this provision to the contractors, to whom a few months ago you promised permanentization. It is the same hypocrisy that governs you on the issue of the call for strikes. But you said as opposition, but you said at first as government, but you do now. But I'm sure that's none of your business. To remain in power you are willing to do everything literally!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Dimas, excuse me for the interruption. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of forty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th and 11th Municipal School of Byron. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u33	It is amazing, however, how you create new structures out of nowhere, new services, beyond all moral barriers and constant warfares, which cost Greek society a new party army in the state, all that we want to fight for. Article 240, listen to the coexistence of how many structures at the same time refers to: Secretary-General, Deputy Secretary-General, Secretary-General, General and Special Secretaries, Heads of General and Special Secretaries, and the new Administrative Secretaries, and obviously their Deputys, but also to all posters who are invited to serve them. How much will this reconstruction of post-mortem government officials cost? No one knows, no one can count. All we know is who's gonna pay them. I am characteristicly reading from the report by the General Accounting Office of the State that the amount of this expenditure depends on real facts. It is what we say that "science raises its hands high" with the statism you have imposed on us. After you've been "incinerated" throughout the country, now bring in a completely different framework for casinos, despite the fact that the Minister of Finance was committed two months ago in this Chamber that this would be done in a separate bill, so that there could be real and real dialogue. But it seems that dialogue is something that leaves you indifferent and you want to avoid. How you are, of course, ensuring equal competition in casinos, where you are selectively giving more favourable tax arrangements, is an issue. Apparently, there's a reason. I read with interest, however, the unanimous decision of the Mykonos municipal council, with which the inhabitants of the island, who contribute so much to the country's GDP, state that they are opposed to the creation of the casino in their place. They say to you: 'We do not want it!'. I am presenting to the minutes and the unanimous decision of the municipal council. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But you, unlike local society, are trying to milk the 'Golden cow' and to exploit, among other things, the passions of the weakest people. And I would like to focus on another point, which is a sign of the immorality with which you are legislating, as much as you are talking about various social issues: According to Law 4002/2011, it is forbidden to carry out all kinds of lucky games with credit, as well as to provide a discount on the cost of participation. In other words, it is forbidden for casino businesses to lend their customers to continue to play. You, under paragraph 26 of Article 378, refute this provision and give casinos the right to grant loans of more than EUR 50 000 to players to continue to play. For me this is exploiting the passion of a player who has lost everything. That's where you arrived! This is the real meaning of every moral advantage of a government, which only cares about it is services. You must withdraw the device immediately! In conclusion, I should like to say that the polynomial plan you brought to the House is a mixture of monumental commitments, left-wing ideas and painful disguises for many social groups and guilds that until recently 'close the eye'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr Dimas. You have been absolutely consistent in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u35	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u36	We want to talk, too, Minister! We have the floor too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u37	Mrs. Fotio sit down. I didn't give her the floor. Mrs. Fotio, please sit down. I didn't give you the floor, and I won't give it to you either. The rapporteurs and the speakers will finish, and then I will come to the cabinet. Forget it. Sit down. As far as Members are concerned, it also applies to the ministers as regards Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theories by twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 8th Municipal School of St. Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Constantinople, for sixteen minutes, with what we said earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time the SYRIZA - ANEL Government closes three years. We must remember that the real class bill you brought to the House today, which hits the weakest, such as the multitude and third families, hits the consumer and raises issues relating to trade rights, also makes many 'bizas' at many levels, 'bizas' SYRIZA! I would like to remind the Minister - because this story has a follow-up - which was the Minister of the Third Recapitalisation, that he should know - and he knew - that the 24.5 billion granted to the third recapitalisation was vented after he did not leave the Greek State and the Greek micro-investors with their own actions to enter this process. Today, these do not exist, as in other countries of Europe and in America, and they have entered the public debt. This was one of the many "works" along with the funds, with the "dollars" done by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The SYRIZA - ANLL government is doing 'bizies'. And let's get to the casinos. I am also addressing the New Democracy. SYRIZA colleagues, I cannot say - and I would like to be honest - that all SYRIZA Members knew everything that is happening. But today you know them, you have to make your decisions. There was a representative of casino workers yesterday - you have a trade union MP from casinos - and he said that if Ryu Casino today has a tax of EUR 720 000 a year - those are not private individuals, so he is a kibabarian and he is reducing and cutting the allowances, because he is the public, the state - a similar casino type, with the new conditions brought by the government, do you know how much he will pay for the time? He'll pay 90 thousand euros. Are they "bishops" or aren't they? What businessmen will get the next permits? What's that gonna be? Will they also be credit institutions? What are they gonna do? They'll lend the players.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u39	Read it better.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u40	Is that, fellow SYRIZA Members - leave the lead - which you will allow with your vote tomorrow? Why don't you make uniform rules for the old and the new, so that there can be at least one justice? But your commitments to young people are specific. You've found the buyers before the bill, as you did with the "NATIONAL SAFALISTIC" and now you're looking for John Callamos to bring the money. Seven months have passed, and in the "NATIONAL SECURITY" they have not brought one euro. John Callamos is the investor of the big fund who made you and the tables in America when the Prime Minister went. Ladies and gentlemen, this is happening everywhere. Know that Mrs. Durou went to buy a building in Peristeri with 20 million, came the Council of State and said that it is 50% above value and, of course, took it back. We must, however, go on to other issues which are more sensitive. Let us come to the issues of three-tiers and tents. SYRIZA colleague and rapporteur, the allowance for the first and second children has been paid for the first time - you may not agree with the amount - in 2013, that is the truth, since then of the conflict. Today, people - and that is all I will say - the Pan-Hellenic federations with which, as you have been told, you were with your hand - told yesterday that the government expresses its hatred against the three-Telesian and multitude family. "The crime will occur," the President told you "and you will see it when you will not be ministers". These are not our words. These are words that the third parties and the polytexts, the ones with whom you were on your way to the marching hand. Unfortunately, the government doesn't just cut everything else. He's got a cutter from the third kid on it. And since you have accepted the proposal by the President, Mrs Gennimata, to make this committee on demographics, why have you not been patient for two - three months to come and make a more comprehensive proposal? What will this committee have for now? What's it worth to draw conclusions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u41	Are the benefits solved by demographics?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u42	Colleagues, you will have to tell the threeteen and the many families when you go down to your districts. But there are other issues with which you are hitting the weakest, which are also big business. It's about mediation. When I told you in the committee that it was a blow to the weakest, you were shouting out of the chairs. When the president of the House of Lawyers came and told you the same thing, you said nothing. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, since today there is voluntary mediation and anyone, if they wish, can go, why do you - as the only state in Europe - have to do so? Making party clients the ombudsmen? Why? Who's gonna be the mighty? The banker, the insurance company, the big supermarket or the consumer? Of course, it will not be the consumer the strong player. After all, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors said it was a request from the BSE, insurance companies and the EBRD. Will you agree to that? We, ladies and gentlemen, do not believe Mr Kontonis for mediation, nor does the elected SYRIZA Regional Director on the Ionian Islands, come up with a unanimous decision of the SYRIZA Regional Council - who says that we are categorically opposed to the compulsory nature of mediation. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But 'business' is 'business'! Let us now refer to the cost. You say, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kontonis, of course, who finds the Union of Judges and Prosecutors easy, did not say yesterday that all lawyers are across the street - that it is a very small cost. Last night, the plenary session of the lawyers sent a further memorandum. Here's a little example of car cases, leases, pay, with a value of up to EUR 20,000. The big ones, what a lawyer's representative here said yesterday about borrowers, about oranges is another thing, it's over 50,000 euros and it's not here. Let's see what happens to mediation. The minimum remuneration of the Ombudsman is EUR 105,40, the performance of a lawyer with Mr. 4194/2013 is EUR 186, the performance is EUR 50, the partial total is EUR 314, the lawyer’s bill EUR 290, the performance of EUR 50. The total is EUR 681. If it happens with the law in force, it's 300 euros. I am tabling the supplementary memorandum from the Bar Association, with precise figures. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who is this favouring? It hits the weakest, it builds a group for "business", i.e. clientele, certain people who want to be probably the party client of SYRIZA. That is not true anywhere in Europe. But it's all about it and it's a problem - it may have a responsibility, I don't know - the Association of Judges and Prosecutors! I'll remind you of something from the old days. If you vote, we want to tell the citizens and the tens of thousands of lawmakers throughout Greece something you said, but we will do so, namely that we will abolish it by an article and a law. These 'business' will be abolished by an article and by a law. But let us also talk about the great question of the strike. You will allow me to tell you that you are, in fact, doing the dirty political work that New Democracy could not believe you would. What, in fact, is the worst? The worst part is that the New Democracy that wanted to vote for this has said something that I will tell you later. You do not even say that about the New Democracy, because you do not want to vote together on the same article, and 'the world has it, and you have hidden pride', that it is something different. So when Mrs Ahtsoglou took the "seal" from the Troika and brought it directly to the House - why is she loyal to it, that is, what they give it immediately brings it to Parliament - what the New Democracy said then? What was New Democracy saying? What is the statement made by the person responsible for matters of employment when he took it back? I read to you what he said: 'Look at you, the government's disarmament to vote even self-evident reforms is confirmed by the go-aheads - come on to the amendment to change the trade union law. The New Democracy not only believes in the need for at least 50% of the employees to participate in the decision to proclaim a strike, but this amendment is a first-class opportunity for self-evident reforms to see who really believe in reforms or not." Now I wonder and I will ask you, colleagues of the New Democracy: Now who believes in the reforms, SYRIZA who brings them along and does so by Mrs Ahtsoglou or by you? This provision here is a provision. I heard Mrs. Ahchioglu yesterday. Of course, I heard Mr Tsakalotos, who was telling us the day before yesterday that they lost. Mrs. Ahchioglu told us they won. Of course, I don't believe all that. Do you know why I don't believe all this? Because Mrs. Ahchioglu has fought. That's what she said she's overthrown, it's about the Troika, it's overthrown by the people. And the SYRIZA MPs, Mr Triantafylides and many others applauded it. Now how did it change? Hey, you don't get it! The chair changes everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Let's go to the rest of the issues. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the register, ladies and gentlemen, you should read - the Minister is not here - what the scientific service says today. It says that in the light of the above, a consideration is given to the constitutionality through which mortgages fall within the Ministry of Environment and Energy. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Didn't you see that either, colleagues? So you're going to vote for an anti-constitutional provision? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude with two issues relating to the compulsoryity of the commercial guarantee. What's that? It's a real gift to the big companies. I told you yesterday. What are you doing? To date by the '94 Act', if I am not mistaken, for consumer protection, the consumer had the right to receive, in addition to the legal guarantee and the commercial guarantee, that is to say, the possibility of supplying spare parts and making device services for a long time. You must make this optional. They're having a party, that is, big companies for spare parts or anything else, big companies for making electrical devices, one day you'll buy them the other day, but by law of SYRIZA the company won't have any responsibility. This, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, tell me is a memorandum obligation? Will you vote for it? What helps the Greek consumer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Constantinople, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government loves the poor for that it multiplys them. The Change Movement is the only progressive proposal in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u45	After consulting the President of Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that when the time comes to speak, despite the formality of the regulation on the urgency procedure it says five minutes, because in five minutes it is not possible to respond - it must be a god to be able to speak of four hundred articles - the five minutes will be seven. Because it is not possible in five minutes to place a Member of Parliament. Keep it in mind so that you can adjust your speech a little now. The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, George Germenis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The great prerequisites, which the draft law is being passed, are in no way aimed at restoring our economy. On the other hand, they are aimed solely at safeguarding the interests of loan sharks, together with the earlier multi-nomous projects, which have been voted on in the last few years, the Memorandumary Claims and cheques have been established and incorporated into national legislation. The price is again the total economic impoverishment of our people, the exhaustion of every trace of tax ability left in the active professional and business sectors of the market and the completion of the divestment of state property of very tough conditions. In order not to understand the substance and the consequences of the resolution and the implementation of the prerequisites and to underestimate, for the most part, the intelligence of the Greek people, it attempts to vote for the draft law in question by means of an urgent process of parody which Parliament disapproves, the parliamentary procedures and makes it practically impossible for the effective debate, analysis and processing by the competent parliamentary bodies of a draft law consisting of four hundred articles. The regulations, prerequisites for measures imposed on us by you and the loan sharks are going to bring the charismatic shot to all the social classes, groups and professional sectors of the country. They are exacerbating the position of those who have already been destroyed by the memorial policies of free professionals, farmers, but also ordinary citizens, pensioners and employees. They nullify every trace of welfare left to the many and three families, while directly attacking private property. With electronic auctions, the loss of the first home is now becoming an easy case, while the right to strike and any response option left, is limited. Indicative reference to some of the proposed provisions once again proves self-evident that our country's ability to exercise independent national political and legislative power has long been lost. In Articles 207 to 209 on electronic auctions, the process of natural auctioning in the pacifist courts will now be completely abolished and the electronic auction will only apply. In this way, hundreds of thousands of Greek borrowers and debtors will be able to get out of the hammer so that the "first-time left-wing government" of SYRIZA - ANEL will be able to complete its private property policy, which can now be described in just five words: no home in the hands of owners. In addition to the impending expiry of the protection of the first home, the sale of housing loans to foreign groups and the planned end of the current year of the "Katseli Law", it is clear that SYRIZA’s companions and their companions are attacking property, not by Marxist and communist ideologies, but using the weapons and methods provided by the capitalist system. By Article 211 on the strike, the Government, in order to prevent workers from reacting and to ensure the unobstructed application of the Memorandum policies at the workplace, makes it difficult to declare a strike for which the primary trade unions are required in order to take the decision, half of their financially qualified members. The characteristic is that the reference is made only to primary unions. The decision-making process in GFCM, ADEDY, labour centres throughout the country, secondary organisations and federations, such as OTOO and General PPC, is not affected. In all these cases, the strike decision will continue to be taken by the boards of the respective trade union organizations. Consequently, the proposed provision leaves the well-known workers in secondary organizations indiscriminately, at the same time as workers at the workplace will in fact be deprived of the right to strike. In Article 214 for allowances, family allowances are supposed to be streamlined. However, what actually happens is that third parties and tenants are punished, who see the already minimal benefits that have been received even further. This is a criminal policy, since birth is a deadly danger to our nation. Therefore, it should be a one-way road for the Greek state to strengthen the three-tier and multi-stage families in any way and not to eliminate them financially. With the alleged increase in allowances paid to families with one or two children, the Government serves only communications purposes. Furthermore, badly thinking, he failed to include the family allowances paid to the inconsistent, as is the case with the heating allowance or the social dividend, resulting in any sums paid, which, in any case, will be able to offer households minimum relief, legally to return to the state funds in a very short time. Thus, these income categories are not indicative of the real needs faced by families, especially third parties or multitudes, since, for example, incomes from EUR 15 000 to EUR 20,000 per annum obviously and should not be considered as high or even medium for a single family. Only solution for family allowances to be paid in a fair manner, without intensification among social groups and with the possibility of effective support of Greek families, is to be excluded from beneficiary families, which are foreign or illegal immigrants and to be paid only to Greek citizens. Articles 355 and 356 provide that the provisions of the Code on Tax Procedure relating to the registration and the performance of VAT are to be completed. Insurance controls are supposed to be in place in order to avoid cases of circumvention of the law and effects of abuse, avoidance of financial obligations and corruption. However, it will also prove ineffective in this case if the problem of VAT change is not tackled radically, in order to avoid the payment of previous debts, loans and debts. Moreover, the cases of football teams that have escaped their debts or even more recently of the former PASOK and now the Change Movement, which attempts with a name change and VDU to get rid of economic sins of decades, prove that with semimeters this phenomenon will not be struck. The proposed provisions are inadequate and ineffective. In Articles 357-368 on functional casinos from the Memorandum of Multi-Project, the provisions that favour the development of casinos and other gambling institutions in our country will obviously be omitted. It is a constant and fundamental position of the Golden Dawn that in a healthy and national society no form of gambling can be placed and much more promoted by the state. Under Article 395 ‘Confidentiality Regulations’, the Government is supposed to make organisational and structural changes to the EBRD mechanism by setting up a new Public Pensions Administration Directorate. However, although the text states that the new agency will be carried out by secondments and transfers of officials, we see that the report by the General Accounting Office of the State provides for expenditure which, together with the payment of the responsibility allowances to the heads, is close to 800,000 euros a year for new recruitments. It is about deposing the clientele, a party state. In Article 396 the redefinition of benefits for dangerous and unhealthy work on a zero basis will lead to the negligence of these benefits and will hit tens of thousands of workers. But these are fine letters for the government. Furthermore, it will no longer have to worry about strikes, since it has taken care of the draft legislation in fact to ban them. As has been said, the reference to only one of the four hundred articles in this multiplier project - we say again - proves self-evident: Our lenders, loan sharks could not find better employees than the present government, but also from the other equally willing memorandum political forces to impose and defend their interests. But unlike the dozens of memorial demands that you have all loaded on the back of the Greek citizens one is the prerequisite that the Greek people need, to regain their lost dignity and independence: The Golden Dawn to come to things, to expel all those at risk of the future of Greece, the future of our children and to relaunch a new future for Hellenism, for our country. It is a pretext that Golden Dawn is voting against the Memorandum of Multilegislative Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u47	Let me tell you how the process is going to go. We'll move on with the special speakers. Then I'll look to my right at the ministerial benches. I'll give the floor for five minutes to Mrs. Fotou. It has not been designated by the government as a speaker, but I understand that he would like to answer, because there have been several references to the pieces he handles. I will ask which of the Ministers present, Mr Papadimitriou or Mrs Conniordos, she wants to take the floor. Then we'll enter the first group of colleagues. At least five Members will speak and a minister who will be on the table on the four of today's agenda. The Members of Parliament who want to speak today, I would ask them to tell the Bureau so that we can incorporate them into the procedure. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. By tabling and discussing the plan, which will close the third assessment, the government launches a new wave of attack, the escalation of the attack, against the working class and the people's family. It stands out - and we distinguish it as a JRC from the articles in the bill which mark the new escalation of the attack on the working class - the intervention by the Government with which it blocks, puts new difficulties, the right of the worker to strike, the greater conquest of the working class. Thus, the Government, by means of this provision on the substance, follows an undermining tactic against the heart of the strike right. That is to say, it aims at the heart of the trade union movement. The Minister also claimed, but also other speakers from SYRIZA, that they are bringing some minor changes. What are they doing? They put '50% plus 1' for the quorum of the convention. But, don't you know that's forbidden for the assembly to have a quorum, no matter how many to vote? Don't you know that in factories and business, in primary unions, there are shifts? There are barons! How will this "50% plus 1" gather? He's never gonna gather on the substance. In this way, those who are not going to make a decision, even everyone who wants it, because they will not have a quorum. And, of course, with regard to the numerical arguments you give, you have no imagination of responding to the documented criticism of the JRC or the class trade union movement. You are using the same arguments of BSE. I do not know what the uterus, the government or BSE is, but you are using the same arguments. What did the BSE representative say yesterday? He said: 'This is a positive regulation of a marginal nature'. And he also brought examples and said that from eleven people who can make a decision today, there will be twenty - six with the changes. "If you think" - says Mr Scortsos - "that is to circumvent the right to strike, I think anyone can draw their conclusions". The BSE report applauds you, it uses the same arguments as you. It says that it is not a violation of the right to strike, that is, what you say. You don't even have a imagination. You have lost your temper literally against this new Armageddon, which you want to bring in front of the working class and trade union movement. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And not much more when you leave a legislative framework which is forbidden. Don't you know that today the courts are making 95% of the strikes illegal and abusive? Did you change that? No! No! No change in this! So when 95% of the strikes come out of today's data, imagine what is going to happen next, when you do not even tease the formal reasons the courts decide about illegal and abusive. And of course, look at this: What did the International Monetary Fund and BSE ask you to do in the third memorandum? You were asked for very simple things: team redundancies. You did it! You did so with the collective redundancies, with the additional third memorandum in 2017, with the n.4472 in Article 17. You are paving the way for the release of collective redundancies. What did the International Monetary Fund and BSE request you? You were asked for a lockout. You did the lockout with the same law, Law 4472 in Article 20. In fact, you also brought the pay lockout. You have legislated the most barbaric form of lockout. In other words, it will have the right for the employer not to pay the workers who do not participate in the strike, who do not strike, who are working properly. Did you bring things like that and say that you resisted the demands of the International Monetary Fund? The group redundancies have also been made by the lockout as far as the strike is concerned, you are now doing so. It's starting to throw out the right to strike, that's what we're telling you. You're starting to lose your right to strike. Of course, listen to me: it is very hard to claim that this is how you want to restore participation and democracy to the trade unions. Don't you know there's an employer's arbitrariness or an employer's terrorism? Don't you know that? Do you not know that you support and maintain what the PASOK brought and then the New Democracy, the Workers' Union, continued these informal forms that undermine workers' unions in the workplace and can sign labour contracts? Fifteen people in a hundred may sign employment contracts, business contracts, and you say it cuts you off how unions and unions work? And you're saying you're cut off by the participation of the workers? From now on, when you maintain the work jungle implemented by the New Democracy and the PASOK, do you expand it even further? So what do you want to do? You literally want to turn the class trade union movement into a subordinate employers' and government trade union movement in practice. This is your pursuit, and you are gradually going ahead with it. Secondly, a lot of fairs about the bankruptcy code and the changes you make. What are you doing on the substance? It's only up to six payrolls, he says. The rest of the business in the unspoiled. The debts to the insurance funds? To the unscrupulous. Never! And that's the cheese on the lentils on the substance. It's not a big deal. Second element of this attack. You are preparing the ground for reducing the allowance for unhealthy and dangerous work to the public. The committee you are setting up will start from a zero base to discuss these allowances, that is, reduction and not enlargement, because if it were for enlargement, you would say so. This way, what are you doing? You are opening the way, to open up the debate on the greatest shrinking of the categories of heavy and unhealthy professions and to reduce these categories that have the heavy and unhealthy profession. Third element. You set the disability allowance in the name of the reactional logic, the degree of functionality of the disability. Fourth. You continue to prohibit by Article 242 the conversion of contracts into the public sector and the general public sector of the fixed time in indefinite time. That is to say, you are continuing the work hostage, the recycling that is forbidden to convert these contracts under an explicit provision of Article 242. The fifth element of this attack on the working class, but also on the people's family as a whole. Make the shielding of auctions, only by means of electronic auctions will the auctions become now, so that you can block reactions. And where do you base this on? The need to strengthen and support the financial system. Therefore, it is not only the overdue loans and banks by people's households that face the problem of auctioning and opens up the rift for the first place to go out to the hammer as well. You are taking a step further with the amendment that Mr Tsakalotos said will bring it during the debate: You are broadening auctions and public debts, banks, insurance funds and payments from EUR 500 and above. And I ask the following simple question: To a self-employed person who owes 1200 euros to the insurance funds, will you go get him the van carrying his tools? You're gonna take his job tool and seize it to him? Is that the fight against strategic malpractices, when you know that 90% owes up to 10,000 in insurance funds and so much in tax? 90% of those in debt owe up to 10,000 euros. Strategic poor payers don't owe 10,000 euros. Don't go crazy! And you want more than 500 euros. So we will have accelerating all these reactions. Step two. At the same time, the prerogatives of large capital are being widened at the same time: the liberalisation of markets, privatisations, the CECs that are part of the excess, the energy stock is being formed, which is an important step in the further privatisation and liberalisation of the electricity market. So it's not just a mere commodity, but it's turned into a stock exchange trade that's negotiable on stock markets, on financial markets. Who does this serve? It serves overcompensated funds and also gives banks the right to take part in the stock exchanges, to buy electricity at preferential prices and then sell it at expensive prices. What is going to happen on the substance? They will buy industries that are not banned from participating in the auctions on these stock exchanges very cheaply and which will use it very cheaply or which will sell it very expensively for the people. Energy trade, which is a top issue for the people's layers? What are you going to do on the basis of this? You are also undermining the use of domestic sources, because they will also be able to find other sources, since it is a single pan-European market now, so that they can import cheap energy from wherever you can imagine and at the same time undermine the rights of the people's family for cheap energy and heating. Secondly, you are giving land and water to the great capital. Changes in the Mining and Quarry Code. These are changes aimed at the fastest possible use of the country's quartz and mining wealth. Provision is made for arrangements to simplify the proclamation of areas in quarries, with new criteria that run counter to the right to protect the environment, with the right of local families living there, which in essence lead to the concentration of mining activity in larger enterprises. Third element. We said it and you lifted a swing. The Land register is not a urban modernization. It is no coincidence that the World Bank itself studied and decided that the Greek state should proceed with the establishment of the Stock Exchange. The World Bank has the pain? Doesn't he have an interest in that? But this is the Minister himself. Didn't Mr. Femellos know? What did Mr. Femellos say to the committee? It is, it says, a development tool. All the movable and immovable property will be recorded, all the land to whom it belongs and can much more easily thus be repurchased, concentrated, changed land use, because the earth is now obscene. Not much more now with the increase in auctions, if they know what each one of real estate has fully recorded, the "fillets" will also be beaten in the auctions. So, you're opening the Caesar's hold this way. You facilitate the concentration of the land in less hands, develop investment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u49	Shouldn't we make a Land register?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u50	We didn't interrupt you, Mr. Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u51	It's okay. Let him go, I don't have any problem at all. I just don't want them losing their temper. So I say that in this way you will facilitate earth’s concentration, facilitate investment on earth, change of land use. That is what you are doing and the BSE has applauded it. And Femellos said it's a powerful development tool in the Land register. We don't say anything different, what the Minister says to you. Of course, there are regulations on licensing with a facilitation of business groups, tax incentives. No matter what income comes from patents for three years. Unnecessarily. Reducing the taxation of the fund that is capitalised, from 29% to 5%, if we do so by 2018. These are gifts, as are the reduction of fines to businesses. At the same time, it is not only that you attack workers, you give new benefits to capital, but you also shield the system even more. You're making it more reactionary. You reactivate it. Because the logic of the extrajudicial ombudsman is reactionary, and even compulsory. That's a reactive logic. We had denounced it since 2010 when the optional extrajudicial compromise came. Then what did we say? That this is how justice is privatised and goes to hands that we don't know who this Ombudsman is and what role he can play. Now you're making him compulsory. What does that actually mean? Apart from compulsory, privatization, it means that those who are damaged are the economically weak people, who will be asked to spend significantly greater expenses on going to the compulsory extrajudicial compromise first and then resort to justice and spend more time. So it's gonna be dissuasive. Is it accidental that the Association of Greek Insurance Companies has been requesting the compulsory settlement? Why would he ask? They don't know their interests? When we tell you this, don't get upset. Finally, there is a lot of talk about benefits. A euro raises it on the substance of the day. They can't even get milk. This is how you're going to deal with the demographic problem? Don't say too much. Nor do you have a demographic problem with one euro per day, an increase in benefits to some families, because in others, it is much less reduction and in some you are abolishing it. But what is it? It's the logic of your allowance. It is logical that we create with our political extensive strata of poverty and impoverishment and call and place the separating line not between the working class and the capital, which is the real separating line, but between the impoverished and the one who has little more than the impoverished income. There you put the cove of the dividing line, because you really want to incriminate those who have a little better incomes, compress their own incomes by making them even cheaper, making the labour force even cheaper. At the same time you leave to the unpredictable real enemy, big capital, business groups, to which you give new privileges, new incentives. Not to think about that, the unemployed person, the pensioner with a low pension, but to think about his next door that takes 10 euros and 20 euros more and he should go after through the donor logic. I mean, you're povertying the world and its conscience. On the substance, make it comfortable with the various allowances, with the various physics. We say clearly that the attack will continue after the supposed exit from the memorials. Because there will be memorial laws. The overthrows in industrial relations will exist. The low-qualified labour force will also exist in the period of growth. You'll even take new steps. You will be forced to shield competitiveness and profitability. So we say that the working class and the popular movement must target the real opponent. It's not just the government, it's not what it's doing and what it doesn't. A real rival to the working class and people is big capital, monopolistic groups and their interests. Against this, he must turn, he must organize his struggle. We're optimistic. I will of course close with what I said yesterday, taking the occasion of the closure of Mr Tsakalotou. You told us we haven't seen anything yet. We say to him: "See what we have prepared you for later." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u52	We proceed with Mr Thanasis Papachristopoulos, a special speaker from the Independent Greeks. Come on, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Again I heard the word 'part of', the word 'immorality' and various other designations. Let me begin a little differently. Yesterday we had a committee of inquiry in the House on health issues. I should like to make three brief references to three events. Firstly, under the authority of the witness - it makes no sense to say names now, because they have no parliamentary immunity, and I respect that - sixteen million doses of vaccines were ordered. Of these were given behind Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou - and I have to say this, because I honour this EUR 12.3 million. He gave it back and took 80 million euros. Of the rest, three million six hundred thousand doses were refrigerated in the fridge and only roughly ten thousand were used. My questions were persistent, personally, to the witness about what he has to say about this thing. Of the eighty-four sick people at that time who had been infected with H1N1 only four had not been subjected to disease. Some death incidents were projected every day, because the loan of EUR 200 million from CEDEFOP had to be made, all had to be subject to disease. About the first two deaths, one had a defibrillator and the other had a severe heart disease. I didn't hear an answer. Also, I didn't hear an answer about an advertising campaign - and I'm talking with facts. I read all the laws and sanctions. In no country in the world, the corresponding CDC does not pay advertising. In our state, many millions have been spent. In this particular presidency, this witness has spent 2.5 million euros. After reading to him the law, which imposes sanctions on high-screening hours, he still hasn't answered. And when we asked him: "Today, after 2015, do you know whether you have even been given a euro for advertising expenditure?" He didn't know how to answer us. I have given it the answer: not half of the euro. And thirdly, I have heard - and I say again - 'a party' and 'an immorality'. The objective value of the building housed by the CEDEFOP was 3 million and reached 29 million over the days of the particular witness. I don't know what answers he gave. The competition was perforated. He had photographically described this building. In fact, I would like to say this: of these 200 million, the remaining 150 - I do not now want to gloat about it - where they went we will see it in the committee of inquiry. I would like to end by referring to the word 'part' and the word 'immorality'. But I want to say something else. We as Independent Greeks don't owe a penny. Come see the debits we have as a party. SYRIZA - I'm not aspiring to be a SYRIZA defender - owed around 8.5 million. His MPs know well that every month they have 2,000 to repay this loan which has reached 3.5 million. Some people bleed in here, but they don't answer directly. These are the words 'immorality' and the word 'partisan'. They owed the two parties around 440 million. Let them tell us clearly. The leader of the New Democracy said something, first elected then, then they caught him and said, "Let's go, we're not talking about it now." They owed 215 million and 240 million. Give a written undertaking how to repay this money. The Greek citizen has been charged with it. I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u54	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u55	I'm on my way. Don't interrupt me, Mr. Constantinople. I don't want to hear anything. Listen. I'm only talking about evidence, always about evidence. Yesterday there was a short-term borrowing, because the word 'excession' and the word 'destructivity' have now become a second one for some. In the short term, 0.99%. It doesn't matter, but something shows the Greek economy. The chapter has been covered too many times so many times, it could take what it wanted. Two days earlier the Bloomberg shows that the interest rate has reached two-year bonds to be better than the US. For God's sake, Obama didn't bring me to believe we had a better economy than the Greek one. But it's characteristic of the trend. A few days earlier, ten-year bonds reached 3.7% and they're there somewhere. I would like to remind the House again that - the repetition is the mother of learning, many - nine months before Portugal came out - in 2014 - from its ten-year memorandum was 7%. Today Portugal - and again it was defamated by some people, etc. - lent with 1.86%. Today Greece has 3.7% and in eight months we want to believe that we are coming out of the memorandum. Why am I saying this? It's a special moment for the country. Are we talking about another reality? I keep listening to the following reference: 'No house in a banker's hand'. It's becoming a monotonous. Change grill. Find something more timely, something more important. You stopped a little bit with Maduro, you said something about North Korea, you shortened these things and you started 'no house in the hands of a banker'. I will say straight and straightforward, overreacting in 2015, no objections were raised. There was an ignorance of danger, I'm telling you. You're lying. You're lying. You're saying what you want. I say Ignorance of danger and excesses and we've made self-criticism about this thing. Indeed, what we found was unbelievable to understand. And when we were imposed - I will say again - the third memorandum, we did not whistle indifferently. We went to elections and the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA. And we said, "Lords, this third memorandum has been imposed on us. Who do you want to handle it? We or the others?’. Shoeble himself, the country's strongest, who wanted to throw us out of the Eurozone, admitted that it was an honest attitude of the government, Tsipras, Prime Minister, to come to elections and put it in the crisis of Greek citizens. These elections have become invisible. Nobody mentions them. 'No house in the hands of a banker'. How many times are you going to say it? You're getting tired. You are tired of saying: 'Previous elections. Go away. You're useless. You are liars." You're tired of saying the same thing. I often hear Athens burns, etc. I will agree that mistakes are made and need to be corrected. I have in front of me a list of five hotels now happening in the center of Athens. I am not talking about 'FOUR SEASONS', which is made on the Star of Builiagmeni, 'KING GEORGE', 'HILTON', the hotel in the center of Omonia. Eighteen hotels. These people, why do they come and invest now? What do you think? Is that what's going on? Insecurity. I say no. I still have eighteen large companies in front of me, moving the private economy. All of them are growing - something points to this - from 20% to 30%. I could report you numbers. Old titles we had forgotten, such as 'ESKIMO', 'IZOLA', 'FIX' have resurfaced, etc. Aren't they telling you anything? I hear every day: "You are sabotaging entrepreneurship. You do not want to do business." No, gentlemen. Other rules in any such procedure and other immunity. Rules. The one who imposed rules is still a benchmark in Sweden, because there is no corruption or conflict in Sweden for many decades and it is a attraction for all the entrepreneurs who want to invest. Is it wrong to fight corruption and interlocutory? This isn't about entrepreneurship? It does. Haritsis told you many times that only in 2017 they entered the country 7.5 billion in the real economy either from the Investment Bank or from other Community resources. Why are you shutting it down? Why don't you mention it anywhere? I do not want to refer to what is to be invested, the 7 billion that will trigger 20 billion investments. I'm leaving it. I'm talking about the eight billion people who came in. How did the sixteen connections of Spirtzi become? How did Theanos get a hundred and twenty thousand young children in nursery stations? How did we start the primary health care that Paulakis did with Blonde? Is it a lie that for three years we've been the first to absorb the ESRB with 25%? You're supposed to be noodles on the market. You had an absorption of 1.5%. We are the second in the Yunker package. You've been mocking it. I'm personally obsolete. It's raining, it says, billions. I also have a list of the 'THOMAS COOK' and the 'TUI'. They're the largest tourist offices in the world. Is it a lie that these people have now been as active as possible? And I have another list of investments in front of me. Pitsirlas has told you to all tons that the "Greek" ends. It had to end, didn't it? I don't have a good picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Papachristopoulos, I'm asking you for a second break.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u57	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of nine students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Corinth Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here you go, Mr. Comrade, go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u59	I'm going to be the devil's attorney. Yeah. I, too, want the first residence of the poor and poor to be legally shielded. I want it. What could we do? Made Mrs Katseli's law with the addition made by Mr. Stathakis. Even now that we're talking, some borrowers don't know they can get into this law, apply. Also, many don't know what an out-of-court compromise means. He was devastated and some did not vote for him in this Chamber at all. I'll be the worst advocate of the devil. Something needs to be done about seizures, which have nothing to do with auctioning. Something needs to be done with those who have been guaranteed and have nothing to do with first residence and housing loan. Something has to be done when an accelerating man is a citizen and you can lose someone's house. I agree! But it has nothing to do with a bank, a cashier. Why are you lying all the time? I hear lies on TVs from morning to night. Can we legislate now? No, we can't. We call it straight away. We're waiting to get out of the memos. And it's a tangible answer, for what a government really wants to do to improve the country. So should Drasakis say so to the Bank of Greece? Only the three businessmen who wrote "DOCUMENTO" are those who went bankrupt the businesses, took the money out, throw the workers out, like "MEGA" and go by saying? Should Drasakis press Mr. Stournara? I respect Mr. Stournara, and I don't make any descriptions. Will it finally help us? The Bank of Greece knows who bankrupt the companies, took the money out to offshore and went by saying. We need this help and we'll have it. I'm telling you straight away. I will not speak for a long time, Mr President. I do not know if Mr Eukleidis Tsakalots is here, but he was more than sincere. We don't feel good. We know. We respect the trade union movement and I tell you directly. Personally, I was a trade unionist. For three years I was a representative of the workers at the "Evangelism", the Board of Directors. It wasn't good. But did you see the proposal made by the respected Census? You're making a comparison. Have we avoided the lock out? Yes! We're committed to collective agreements, and I'm telling you directly? Oh, no! I think it was a retreat. We didn't hide her. I say to you that we are very much waiting for the third assessment to be closed, firstly, to enter the medium-term debt debate. Is that none of your business? You inherited us 325 billion. We've got it. At the end of 2013, unemployment had reached 27.8%, so to get to know each other. Where are the market children, investment? Why did they get unemployment so high? Stathakis said the self-evident thing about the rate of unemployment today. It's five and a half points down. Can it drop another 5.5 by the end of August? Maybe! Do you know what 15.5% unemployment means? The ESM yesterday said "Lords, for the first time you had 15% and you have a growth of 0.3% on four quarters for the first time". He thinks it's positive. Finally, I want to say a word. I have asked three topical questions about polling, because it is a matter of parliamentary democracy. Can't pay a company to get a thousand phones - if it got it - and create climate in the world. We've seen these with Mr. Maranzidis's company. I'm talking with names. They gave 20 units of difference, nineteen, eighteen. I think they didn't believe them either. "KAPA RESEARCH", of which I am not advertising to her - we know many well-known, who has anything to do with who, or at least who, to avoid a peak, but certainly not with SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks - lands them sharply in June with a poll that differs from six points. And it causes them a devastating fracture three weeks ago, with a difference of 3.8%, with a million undecided, 85% had voted 'no' in the referendum, with a ceiling on the respected Certification 95% and a collapsing of the ruling party around 45%. He's got us at 2%, and he's got us at 2.5%. It was a overwhelming fracture, because this survey did not involve a thousand people, it involved 12 thousand seven hundred eighty people. It didn't get selective. Done at 13 regions. It lasted twenty-three days. The message has been received.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u60	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u61	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm not an ether. But I'm saying there's going to be a brake - and I've done it - on this immunity of the pollsters. Along with three other colleagues - and other parties - we have promoted it. Our brains don't even get any air. We know we're pulling an inferior.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u62	Close, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u63	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u64	Okay, you got a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u65	I have heard a ironic comment about e-government, about pie, and I would like to place myself. Listen, Mr. Dimas, read carefully. You have not been prevented from establishing the electronic signature for years. One has not prevented you from making the e-commerce stop, where a business does not need six months and three hundred signatures, electronic invoices and, above all, plastic money. This has been done for the days of this government. No one has prevented you from doing so for thirty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u66	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Papachristopoulos, don't put me in a more difficult position. Finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u68	Do not iron out, Mr Dimas, because in 2018 seventeen Ministries will operate, to the extent possible, by e-government. Thank you, Mr President, and forgive me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u69	Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Happy year to those I haven't been able to wish! I will agree with Mr Papachristopoulos on the subject of polling. We are in contact with the independent authority and we will present a proposal as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the impoverishment of Greek citizens has been monstrous. This impoverishment has no cause for the Memorandum. It has not taken us to these memorials, but the governments of the last decades with the perpetuating client state. It would be hypocritical to say that that's why only SYRIZA is to blame. It is all the governments of the last forty years, with the demagogy, the customer state, the rhetoric and so on. For the public debt and unreasonable wastes it is also for PASOK, it is for the New Democracy, it is also for SYRIZA, but it is for the smaller parties that have been in a shape and collated over the last few decades. Today, according to ELSTAT's latest and recent data, 44.5% of children and adolescents up to 17 years of age experience material deprivation. Either they have no heating or they have no electricity or they cannot pay rent or they can still not feed enough. I'm figuring out for the minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] All this stalemate stalemate of course, all that monster of the client state that has led us? To have your "love children" comfortable and toss the margins of those who have not passed through your party offices. Half the population is on the verge of poverty and you, even today, want to save your 'children'. Do not harm the large pensions above EUR 1,500, but cut the NSA from the low pensioner. We must not prejudice the prerogatives of the hereditaries and the great trade unionists. We must not harm the very high wage penthouses of the ECHO. Let private sector wages reach about 400 euros and keep working conditions on the real market down! Ladies and gentlemen, the new company in its first year of operation must pay about 70% of its income in taxes, insurance contributions, tax advances and various incredible fees, the more unemployment will grow, as this company will necessarily close down. What will this citizen do who will be unemployed? He'll wait for Christmas to come for you to give him a pocket money you are baptizing social dividends. You give it to him on the one hand and now you come to vote on the prerequisites to get it, on the other hand, double and triple. If it were up to you, you wouldn't give him money, but you'd give him a pool coupon. So impoverished you want the Greek citizen to be 100% dependent on your mood. The free citizen standing on your feet is an obstacle, because he just doesn't have to vote for you. In state spending we are world champions. We're taking the World Championship with 55.5% of GDP in government expenses. I submit to the minutes a related graph. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The whole of Greece, that is, works for the state. The economic and freedom index is under Uganda and Bosnia-Herzegovina. I'm putting down another graph for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You still say that you prefer to exaggerate the private sector than to find out who's late in the public sector and to remove them and continue with unreasonable rhetorical appointments in the public sector. The state that bankrupt us remains strong and complete, but all citizens are led to impoverishment. I will go to the articles and refer to the most important of them in me, as both the speakers and the President and our parliamentary representative will be present in their speeches. I am starting with Articles 1 to 42 concerning the register, whose recommendation does not bother us either the abolition of all the mortgages or, of course, the absorption of existing officials into it. What we find opposing is that this new body is recommending hundreds of more jobs than the existing ones, which immediately leaves open window for rhetorical screening. We are also opposed to the excessively predicted fees for registration and transfer of real estate, which will be borne by those who want to transfer their real estate. We are not talking about electronic auctions - Articles 207 to 209 - which finds us vertically opposite and we fear that this whole process will evolve into a real confiscation industry, without even the owners having the right to defend their homes in court in a natural presence. The same criticism lies in Article 214, with which the government effectively deducts funds from three-tiers and multi-tiers and grants them to families with one and two children, with the result that sixty-four thousand multi-purpose families are deprived of valuable resources. With regard to the licensing framework for radio stations - Articles 220 to 238 - we are also opposed, since even the stations which currently have heavy costs will be called upon to pay high amounts. Experience from the respective competition for television channels does not prejudge us positively and positively, as we see that only recently "MEGA" closes, which is your creation. With regard to Article 246, we are also opposed to the merger of primary and secondary school units, because we consider this to be very likely to lead to the degradation of the educational project. For the establishment of an Economic Crime Investigation Directorate in Articles 381 to 394, yes, we believe that there is a need for such a House and we agree with the guidance of the prosecutor, but we disagree directly with the Minister, which does not guarantee us transparency and impartiality. I shall also mention where we are positive, because as a Centro Association, we are not saying inconsistently not in everything. In Articles 100-118 we are positive, as this complements the institutional framework for consumer protection, since the rapid development of technology makes it necessary to protect them against services provided remotely and by means of a computer. As far as Article 215 is concerned, we are positive in the process of awarding pre-school benefits to disabled people through an electronic evaluation. The same applies to Articles 127-157 concerning the supervision of economic operators and the purchase of products. We also have positive amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure with Article 176 on the privileged satisfaction of workers in bankrupt enterprises. I will not go into the strikes, because the President and our parliamentary representative will specifically refer to them. He thinks we're vertically opposite. I won't even refer to the Quarry Code. We have tabled an amendment to that effect and Mr Saridis and our parliamentary representative will develop it. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the multi-project is simply a hand-written illustration of the commitments made by the SYRIZA - ANEL to lenders. A summing up of provisions without substantial reforms, with purely rospheological attitudes and what the Minister wanted to add, because it is not just memorial commitments that we are called upon to vote on with this multi-legislative draft, but much more that you want to add. To end, the only truth is this: Each Greek and every Greek, that is to say all millions of Greek citizens, find it easy to see that unfortunately in 2018 it will be the year under the name SYRIZA - ANEL that will pass through the funds to return one or two pensions or one wage due to the additional taxes and contributions that you impose. Our task as politicians, ladies and gentlemen, is not the chair. It is to live with dignity every day for Greek citizens. All you do is have a good time, you and your appointed men and two and a half thousand posters, which is a record you've made. Even the PASOK who appointed a million in public didn't even have so many posters. Everyone else doesn't care what they do. As for the prospect that, in seven months' time, the country will be able to guide and finance itself from the markets, the very valid newspaper, the HANDERSPLAT, comes to question it directly by bringing the risk premiums, which are higher than other countries with budgetary problems, such as Spain, Italy and Portugal. The credit rating houses are already insisting on classifying government debt securities in the trash category. I'm not saying it. It is known as the ‘HANDERSPLAT’. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It goes on to say that what Mr Tsipras promises will break the blockages from the austerity programme is a delusion, because it has committed itself to the lenders and with austerity measures by 2022. Besides, 80% of the Greek debt lies in the hands of public creditors, with EUR 248 billion in Europeans and another EUR 13 billion in the IMF. So Greece will remain under the supervision of creditors until it has repaid its debt, which will last until 2059. The only thing that happens in August, ladies and gentlemen, that you advertise that we come out of the memoranda, is to finish the money from abroad. With simply Greek, it is not just the five-and-a-half prerequisites that you are currently calling on us to vote, which are supposedly fiscally neutral, but it is also the rest that hangs above our head. You'll call for Greek society to pay for it. You will of course vote with your hands and feet. It's the property of your third memorial. It provides, among other things, a tax reduction, a reduction in pensions by 18% and extra-real primary surpluses for another forty years and more. This will complete a large part of your work that is the impoverishment of the country. If we do not give breath of optimism to the real economy, if we do not give the young private worker opportunities to get back on his own economics, to stand on his feet and produce, then the country will not walk. It's not enough to recruit, ladies and gentlemen. You have brought the country into this recession. You may wish for people to depend on your own ruffles, on your own piles, on your own 'bombs', because only in this way can you manage them more easily, but we as the Central Association will be across us and confronted with this attitude of yours, in this disastrous attitude of the last forty years. We are very clearly voting against this whole draft law in principle. We will be putting on the articles in plenary and voting on Monday evening. We hope that at some point all this suffering will end, since you will no longer be in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Matutes to take the floor. Here, Mr. Blacks, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me begin with a great thank you to the river parliamentary support team and to the people who have stayed at night to try to unravel the bill, in response to the crack test that the government has put on us, underestimating the parliamentary procedures in full. For example, yesterday, in the committees, the rapporteurs spoke for five minutes on four hundred articles at the close of the sitting, eighty articles in the minute. We are talking about a speed record for parliamentary work. Bravo to the services of the House who have been up late and have been able to prepare the report! Four hundred articles, six hundred pages, twelve Ministries, four days: This could be the title of pragmatism, the parody of parliamentary procedure, which has been played for two days in the House. This bill includes the prerequisites for the third assessment and not just. Unless the way the Medical Associations operate is in some OECD toolbox and we don't know it, that is, it went under the radar, as Mr. Poppas said. The prerequisites are provisions that have been agreed between government and institutions and want the legislative ball. Because I have heard many ministers proud that a number of things had to be done at last, and that was not the case by the previous ministers, this is where the matter arises. Finally, do you legislate because you are being imposed by the creditors, or because there is a need for these reforms, for these changes? What's the matter with both of you? If the first is true, we don't have to talk. Come in, vote, you're done. But if the second is the case, that is to say we need these changes and these are to be made and these provisions have to be lacking, why do you not bring them under normal procedures? Why do you treat them like a hunter? I am talking about your plans for the Stock Exchange, which you mentioned is finally coming for the quarries, for the Energy Exchange, for radios, for the benefits. Some of the prerequisites have already been ponding since summer. In order to stay a little more in general and to refer to my favourite subject, namely the timetables which do not exist for the implementing provisions, we have counted cumbersomely in the bill about a hundred ministerial decisions and Joint Ministerial Decisions necessary for the implementation of the laws, which have no dates. Of the four hundred articles, only in Article 173, entitled ‘Terms of secondary legislation of the Ministry of Development’, there are specific dates for ministerial decisions. Timeless laws are holograms, that is, you see the shape, the image, but they're empty, they're empty, just to make it seem that there's something there. Now, however, we have also been taught by the institutions and put into the prerequisites and ministerial decisions, that is, their timetable. In other words, the institutions are aware of the timetable for ministerial decisions and we do not know where we are going. We heard the agencies yesterday. The majority found the provisions negative, hastily, incomplete. In fact, many and important players have clearly said that they were not involved in the drafting of the provisions concerning them. Nobody asked them. For example, the PSE, and Mr Moronis clearly said so, was not involved in the issue of radio licences. Anyway! Let's go to the articles. I will begin with this with most of the headlines, Article 211 for the quorum in the decision to strike the primary unions. The status quo is by trade union law, Law No 1264/1982. Let me remind you here that two laws before, No.1262/1982, were the famous framework law for universities, which has changed about a hundred times in its various provisions since then. Thirty-five years, then, don't you think that's enough to see trade union law again? To modernize it and adapt it to the reality of today in the interests of the workers. On the basis of Article 8 of Law 1264, the necessary quorum in the primary unions was a third in the first place and it reached one fifth, that is, 20%, after successive insatiable assemblies for any decision. The quorum is now 50% for a strike decision. Attention, the quorum becomes 50%, not support for the strike, as we often hear wrongly said. The truth is, I don't have any experience in trade union matters. However, judging by my experience in university, on important issues such as the strike, I believe that there must be increased participation of workers involved in the decision-making process. We must not distance workers, but they must take part in the decision-making process. This is the great bet in today's days, not just for those who have the mobilisation mechanisms, so that strikes also have meaning and strong legitimacy. But - there is also a great 'but' - this provision, as it comes, deafening and dictated, must convince society, while it has not actually convinced the government either. To convince, there must be a social dialogue, a fermentation, and see what international experience says, what is happening in Germany, what is happening in France, Italy, Portugal and Cyprus. What does ILO, the International Labour Organisation say? If you enter his website and go where it says "strike ballot", you will see that it gives some directions. It speaks, for example, of democratic control in the decision-making process. And it refers to the quorum and the vote. Also, as the provision comes and sticks to Law 1264, it turns out that few businesses, particularly the private sector, are concerned with having their head office in a single area without branches, because the strike for primary clubs in a wider region, i.e. having branches in various municipalities, such as banks, supermarkets, multi-shops, is still to be decided by the club's board of directors. As a philosophy, therefore, the measure of greater participation of workers in decision-making is right. And this broader involvement must be pursued because that is the interests of the workers. But in implementation it is very poor and, as it comes, fragmented, it is problematic. With Rule 214, on children's benefits, which has also been debated a great deal in society and here in the House, philosophy is completely changing. It does not go to a fixed allowance per child, but it is variable according to income possibilities. Yes, well, let us set some income criteria, but pay a premium for every additional child, so that we do not deprive it of what we have to do. It may be unnecessarily necessary for this allowance to be paid by a millionaires or multitude. But the partyman, the employee, the free worker with a family income of EUR 20,000 and EUR 25,000, certainly needs it. I presented an attempt to improve the allocation model yesterday, how can each additional child be premiumed in a different way, on the basis of which the family equivalent is obtained or not received, a way which each additional child does, so that, for example, a three-tier family with 35,000 family income, which is not the exception, is now not the recipients. Our intervention somewhat improves the situation, especially for the third parties and the multitude, who are the wrongdoers of the case and, above all, for those who belong to the middle class on the basis of income, enabling more people to be included in the criteria. And here I say that by agreeing with Mr Tsakalotos, the Minister of Finance, more than the benefits, it is important for the family to have help from the state, I mean on the demographic issue, for the mother's day-to-day school to have the mother of the private and public sector and more. Is that why we're going to do something or are we just going to have Scandinavian taxes on Balkan services in our country? Let's go a little bit to the Latto code, to articles 43 to 72. The current legislative framework has indeed been outdated since 1979 and incomplete, so it is necessary to reform it. After all, it has already been a prerequisite since the summer. Legislative regulation should be made by means of a separate draft law and, in particular, by a normal voting procedure and not an urgent procedure, because this is not the way to highlight the weak points or the legal regulatory gaps, which do exist, for example the conditions for legislating, the need for more rational setting of fines. We have heard representatives of operators talking about two speed quarries and other omissions. Let's go to Mr. Spirtzi's, to the Ministry of Infrastructure. In Article 217, concerning the Central Electronics System for the Monitoring of Technical Works, KISPATE, a new entity to be created, it is right to do so, yes. But listen to what's funny: it's for the monitoring of technical projects. KISPATE will be interconnected with both KIMIDIS and EISIDIS and TAXIS and with the TEI pay system and other platforms of different operators. Paragraphs 2 and 4 of Article 217 states: ‘If interoperability is not possible for technical reasons, the entry shall be made by electronic transhipment of the document’. But can we, in 2018, consider that there is no interoperability? Is it not possible to interoperability in the mandatory standards for the new system? Oh, my God! Don't go back to the past the systems didn't talk to each other. It is not enough to pass through the papers in the digital age, but e-government should be done with proper design and the necessary specifications. And this particular issue will be closely monitored. Let's go to the radio. It is a prerequisite, as the Minister said, from the OECD's third toolbox. It is a prerequisite to legislate, because as I understood from what the Minister has said in committee, implementation is usually referred to the bells. After all, as Mr Moronis, the President of the PSE, said, they had no idea in the National Broadcasting System about this bill and its addition to the Multi-Project. Is it really not necessary, on the basis of the decision of the Council of State, to assent the PSE to such matters? You put something in the bill, in this case, for the licensing of radio stations, just for there to be, for the porcupines to be tricked. That is why the relevant provisions are like copying television and transferring it to the radio site, if it is two media with quite a different function. That's what you know, but that's what you trust. In this copying, however, note that the copy-paste demon does not infiltrate as was stated in the explanatory statement in Article 6 on the register, where a VAT of 23% appears, apparently from a copy-paste from past bills. For these reasons, there are a number of questions about the licensing of radio stations and ambiguities, both mentioned by Mr Moronis and by the President of the Association of Radio Station Owners. For example, there are no transitional provisions, in general the proposed transition plan from analogue to digital and a timetable. Under the terms of the polynomial plan, municipal radios are left at the moment, treated as private companies - an uncertainty or intentional one? - and quite a few more. In other words, it is the legalization of the'spot and see'. In conclusion, you are voting for this bill in full for the obligation to come out. On many issues it will create problems with the glue of legislation which, unfortunately, we will find in front of us and we will have amendments, as has been done several times before, to correct them in subsequent bills. Your great embarrassment, which is evident in the debate, exists because you are trying to convince about things you don't believe, and you really believe things that don't convince anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much Mr. Mavrota. Please, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has the floor. The Minister will be followed for five minutes by Mrs Theanoo Fotio on the issues we have with the benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the Members who just came from the Potamian Step would expect a day when this circle of the call for television licences was completed, a reason for self-criticism. On the contrary. We have all heard everyone say a few minutes ago about the puppets that some want to fool them again, Mr Papagelopoulos, the bogeyman of the Council of State. "My Lord is shut up, you are perishing." Ladies and gentlemen, either way, this circle is closed for free. And we did see yesterday that they fell outside and in all the predictions, even their scientific approaches, as they were supposed to be. And now they have no handkerchief to comfort all those members of the chosen pimpish rulership. The bill now. In my speech to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I described the bill as a new Memorandum called on the House to vote by voting for the Greek people. As you know, I in Memorandum Bibles neither believe nor swear. That is why, as you know, I resigned from the Samara - Venizelos government at that time. That is why, without spins, I declare myself directly opposed to the plan from the outset. And of course I am not going to vote for it, but hope that this time I am the pitiful and the government will have the right to do so. Not only should it lead the country to the end of the third memorandum, but to prove that it also leads the Greek people to a path of recovery and recovery of the many losses suffered over the last eight years. I believe that most of us agree that sufficient time will be needed, but also a vertical course of economic recovery. But here we have arrived very much, I fear, that unjust recession and austerity will also be accompanied by unjust growth. We must stop this, stop it, not allow it. And personally with whatever powers I have, I will try and continue to do. Ladies and gentlemen, the Memorandumary Requirement for inexorable auctions seems to lead the Government to the full implementation of electronic auctions. And so, we have come to the point that the state, not only do not protect the poor and unpunished citizen from bank requirements, but also claim the state itself the same part of its poor income and property. The Independent Authority for Public Revenue informs us that Greeks owe more than 100 billion to the public and we all know that their taxes are falling to Greeks. Also, the bill under discussion is the recalculation and redistribution of family allowances, i.e. we take from the multitude and the third parties, and we give to others who have one or two children and who do need them and who also have very great difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the social cloak which the government is trying to give, personally as a multitude, but also all the associations of the multitude families finally believe that this redistribution creates greater injustices and inequality. A large part of the families with one or two children will see some small increases. At the same time, however, large parts of the tritecs and the polytecs will experience large reductions and will be excluded from the allowance. I am very sorry, because Greece, a country that grows old and is small, is still punishing children and those who have children. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that for each Greek family her children are the most valuable capital, her one and her only fortune. And in a country with an ageing population - I repeat to the majority - like Greece, unfortunately, we are pursuing a national suicide policy. And it seems that we are not aware of this tragedy, even though the intergroup committee of Parliament unanimously has come up with very specific policies. That is why, not having more to say, I can only appeal from this step towards the government, but also from all the political forces, what this country has and does not have to make available to its children. Let the dividends from the surpluses go for our children, for their upbringing, for their studies, for their daily needs. I will only remind you of the lyrics that include everything, they say it all: "Support the child because if you save the child, there is hope". But exceptionally restless and disappointed, I am also with the rules on strikes. I believe that the strike is a weapon for the workers and a right that cannot be removed. That is why I consider it unacceptable to regulate and, in the midst of memoranda of glaciers, where we all know very well that there are many cases of companies in which workers experience huge work insecurity and very difficult to gather to make a strike. Ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is another link in the long chain of anti-government regulations and requirements of the Memorandum of Occupation, arrangements that have turned the country into a kingdom of elastic labour relations and even more flexible consciences from employers who give a Christmas present and then demand it back. Ladies and gentlemen, the workers together and the unemployed are calling for a comprehensive reform rather than a deregulation. I am one of those defenders of the free economy, but with laws and rules to protect workers and the unemployed and to safeguard their rights. That is why, instead of hybrid arrangements that determine the strikes by majority vote on them, it is now an undeniable need, in my view, to adjust minimum wages and wages upwards. I also believe that there should at last be a direct link between employers' contributions and the number of jobs and pay costs. The more well-paid workers have a business, the more relief it must have. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to point out in conclusion that my personal perspective for Greece, which can really defeat the crisis, is a country that invests in the new generation that supports Greek small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and imposes rules that enhance the standard of living of workers. If such arrangements were to be made by a multi-project or a memorandum, then yes, like all of you, I am sure we would vote with both hands. However, regulations like those before us are impossible to vote on them. I don't believe them and I don't support them. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finally say a few words about the positive arrangements under the Minister for Finance. Politically speaking, I will say that there is not a little positive or very positive and a little negative. However, I also asked the committee, and I did not receive an answer, as I hear many colleagues from many of the previous governments, to raise the same question: why should these positive arrangements - indeed positive arrangements - be granted the cloak of the Memorandum prerequisites to come to a vote and have not, of course, been made by all the previous governments - and I feel that I also have part of this responsibility - or have they come as self-evident bills from the current government? Minimum, but in particular, for the Greek register. The whole story looks like a general vague proclamation that simply accompanies the poisonous dish of measures. And I ask again: why doesn't anyone tell us how much money this project can be done? Why does the Minister imply that it will be completed in twenty-four months, but has he signed studies with a horizon of fifty months? Apart from that, however, there are many other serious issues of transparency. I said it the other day, and I will repeat it today in plenary. It is unacceptable that any justification creates a derogation from the closure of the public limited liability company without any liquidation. I see Mr Maniotis here, where he was responsible, but whoever we are here is one of the oldest. As Undersecretary of State, Mr. Manatis, and you know that, if I want to say any more, I will say. You know, about the stock exchange scandals, I call them by their name, or about her ex-husband, Mr. Gennamas, who had been in court for twenty years, or...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u75	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u76	The Land register - as the world remembers - as most of the PASOK has dealt with it was an opportunity for enrichment. In particular, however, for a company that has in the past been burdened with a lot of manipulative sins and which have scandalously been squandered by hundreds of millions of euros. The new entity should not be influenced by the logic of the successor of a sinful public limited company and start its operation with exceptions that will leave shadows from the outset. We are talking about what is referred to in Article 27(5), which excludes the entity from the general provisions of the accounting of other legal persons governed by public law. The person of the Director-General is clearly central to the healthy development of the new body. It cannot therefore be photographed by its qualifications and skills from the specific features available to the active employees of the public limited company. And one sees that when one reads about the qualifications person described in Article 5(3). It is therefore proposed that these be replaced by the enumeration of L.4369/2016. Article 58 of Law 4178/2013, which provides that the public data of the company and of the OEC is now available to any third party free of charge and with appropriate open authorisations, if they are to be used for non-commercial purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but at least as far as I can see and judge, the full truth is that I do not see and there is not much positiveness in the draft being discussed. On the contrary, they look at the many negatives. I always see the same recipe of poverty and poverty. I understand that the government can take this procedure as the last or last bitter pill to offer the Greek people to claim the end of the third memorial next summer. But I really think he's wrong. I will not repeat what I said earlier. I shall, however, repeat my express disagreement with the multi-legislative draft, and I shall, at least as a wish, make the expectation of being disproved. I'd be happy, even if this time I'm wrong. In my vote, however, I cannot support these measures. Before I come down from the Step, I am sorry, but there are few colleagues, three are here from the Qualified Opposition, which gives weight to today's debate and fights not to pass the measures. I am sorry that the President-in-Office has just left to the two Vice-Presidents, because I should like, as a matter of urgency, to close and ask - unless the President-in-Office or rather the candidate of the New Democracy, Mr. Dendias - finally what Bucharest is? With Dora's Bucharest? With the Bucharest of Karamanlis, where did he veto? In the position that the Vice-President, Mr Hatzidakis, said, is the issue clear about the name of Macedonia or the position of the other Vice-President, Mr Georgiadis? Because I am sure that on Monday the political leaders will refer to the matter. Even if you do not find a word today to say, despite the uprising that is taking place throughout Greece and all the political groups, I imagine you will not avoid showing that once again, as on other issues, you also fully agree with the initiatives taken by this government and you will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Minister Fotio has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I take the floor because the sixteen minutes of which the rapporteur of the New Democracy spoke have been devoted to the allowances of the threeteen and the tents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u79	And it's too little!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u80	Fine, but there's been a lot of exaggeration to lie...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u81	From SYRIZA's announcements!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u82	...who can't terrorize this accusation of our fellow citizens. Firstly, because it has been heard many and yesterday, I would like to say that the family benefits of civil servants are not affected. These are Article 15 of Law No4354/2015 which has not changed. Secondly, we say that this particular article concerns eight hundred and four thousand families. Those who received allowances before will be reinstated, that is, eight hundred four thousand families this year. That's the number. Of these seven hundred thirty - eight thousand will see great increases. Very large increases will of course be seen by those who have one and two children, since of 40 euros taken by the child, it will now take 70 euros a month and 80 euros taken by the two children in the tent family, will take 140 euros a month. That is not what you consider to be a subsidy to the demographic problem. You're making a big mistake. The '93 committee itself refers to ten reasons for the demographic problem to which I shall refer. Let's go to the threeteen and many families. It's about a hundred thousand. Of these, the fifty thousand, Mr Dimas, will see great increases and will be seen in two months' time, because we will pay the benefits very quickly. We won't wait with the old system. We're changing it. And we change it as follows: Third parties, namely, will see an additional EUR 420. From 2,940 you gave - so you say - they'll get 3,300. The quadrants will get an additional EUR 1,120, i.e. from the EUR 3,920 you had, will go to 5,040 euros. Pentagons will get a further 1,820 euros from 4,900 euros to 6,720 euros. The hexes will get an additional EUR 2.520, that is from EUR 5,880 to EUR 8,400. Of course - and we do not hide it, I said it from day one - the two higher income categories - corresponding and smaller than what I have just said - will see reductions. We are here to see how we can deal with these reductions even. This government has a policy for the child, and I will say very specifically: all these hours in here are played with loyals, supposedly the demographic problem. Since the 1993, where the committee of yours has come up with ten points of what you should do, you have done nothing at all. You have given EUR 250 million to a budget of more than EUR 400 million, only to third parties and multiples. It leaves you coldly indifferent to the demographic problem. Because the demographic problem has many parameters. The first is unemployment. You got her to 27%. We dropped her at 21%. Who makes a child when he doesn't have a job or when he has a job in the middle-age employment you brought? The second level is poverty, which you have reached where you have reached it. You didn't give a single euro. We give 760m euros in 2018 for seven hundred thousand of our fellow people you destroyed. Thirdly, what did you do about child poverty, other than trembling us? A hundred and thirty thousand meals are given today, every day, throughout the country. That's a policy for the child. In this negotiation we saved 40m euros for this case and 27m euros for last year. We'll keep going. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Fourthly, we offer great services for the child, such as kindergartens. What did you deliver us? You delivered us seventy thousand places free of charge for the child. Within three years - i.e. by February - we will make it a hundred thousand. And this year, in 1918, there will be another ten thousand posts, that is, a hundred and twenty thousand posts. For the past two years another forty - five thousand posts will be added, or a total of sixty - five thousand posts free of charge. What did we receive? Seventy thousand places free of charge for the child. That's your policy. Hypocrites to death! And I'm coming to the paperwork. What does the finding say? That you had to bring in a law on administering and adopting so as not to rot the children inside the institutions and not to weep families who can't take a child. We brought it in consultation. He's getting into the House this month. What was the conclusion still saying? That you had to do a observatory. Did you do any of this from 1993 to today? We will complete the committee on the initiative of Mrs Gennimata. You will see major policies in 2018 for the child. Don't go in. Don't invest in disaster. You'll see that and very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much to the Minister. It's a flaming thing. So if I may, since the Minister for Finance is here, I would like to say something for thirty seconds. There are comments from many of our fellow people about the incompatibility and seizures of allowances in accounts, whether the unconfidential account is declared or not. There are confiscations of benefits. You might want to comment on it because we have a lot of complaints. Thank you very much. Please very much, Mr. Papadimitriou, if Mr. Papadimitriou wishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u84	Will you put all the ministers together?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u85	One minister then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u86	How's it going to happen? That's not the understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u87	He will be intervened after the speaker. Parliament's representative has also called for the floor. Just make it all up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u88	No, we haven't said that. Members, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u89	No, that's not happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u90	Congressmen, all right. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Economy and Development brings about arrangements that implement the government's strategy. Articles 100 to 111 aim to streamline consumer protection legislation by updating and reforming the mesh of the fragmented provisions of Law 2251/1994, which has undergone many fragmentary amendments in the past twenty-three years. Articles 112 to 118 upgrade and simplify the institutional framework governing the organisation and functioning of trade fairs by establishing a single framework for their smooth operation. Before I refer to the substance of the provisions, I would like to analyse the procedure for drawing up them. The starting point was the OECD recommendations on consumer legislation and trade fairs. The Ministry of Economy and Development undertook the full ownership of these reforms from the formulation of the recommendations until they were implemented. In particular, consumer legislation has been examined and codified for the first time in full harmony with the acquis communautaire. Encoding will be completed by the adoption of a ministerial decision immediately after the adoption of the multiplier plan. This flexible tool will enable all interested parties in particular to be informed in the event of changes resulting from new European directives. The fundamental objectives are, on the one hand, to maintain a high level of protection for consumers and small domestic enterprises, on the other hand, to reduce the cost of compliance for commercial enterprises. This is achieved by three main interventions. Firstly, the introduction of a uniform definition of consumer and supplier concepts. The existing legal framework was characterised by a number of definitions according to the category of transactions regulated each time. The result was a reduction in legal certainty, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers who do not have the luxury of daily legal support. Secondly, by extending the protection provided by the provisions on general trading conditions for all micro-enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises in their trades with other larger or credit institutions often conclude contracts which most of them contain pre-standardised terms. These of course are dictated by the strongest part of the contractual relationship. With the proposed provisions, protection against abuse in such cases now covers micro-enterprises, as defined at European Union level. Given that this definition refers to an enterprise which employs less than 10 employees and that the turnover or the total annual balance sheet does not exceed EUR 2 million, almost all domestic small and medium-sized enterprises acquire another tool to protect their interests. Thirdly, clarification of critical legal concepts. An integrated grid of consumer protection is being created in the purchases of goods for two years. This includes both provisions on a legal guarantee to maintain the product’s essential properties for a period of two years under the responsibility of the trader and to ensure for the first time the post-sale support and the availability of spare parts for an equal period of time. Given this strengthening of consumer rights, the commercial guarantee, i.e. the additional cover provided by the trader over two years, is optional in accordance with European practice. The obligation that has been in place so far has proved to be inappropriate and highly symbolic, as it has not always been provided by manufacturers, thereby unnecessarily burdening small and medium-sized traders. The regulation you are proposing emphasises that the consumer should be properly informed about the commercial guarantee. I would like to take this opportunity to reply to Mr Constantinople and tell him that experience and evidence are not with him. It is estimated that 80% of the complaints submitted to the General Secretariat of Trade for commercial guarantees relate to compliance with the conditions in trade guarantees. And this 80% can only be solved in court, because it is about verifying real complaints about the complaints and claims of traders and consumers. The amendment therefore contributes to the decongestion of the courts. With regard to the organisation and functioning of trade fairs, Articles 112 to 118, certain self-evident OECD recommendations, which indicated distortions and inequality of licensing of exhibition sites, were the occasion for a comprehensive revision of the relevant legislation, which is currently incomplete, unclear and fragmented. The proposed provisions aim to create conditions for the full use of trade fairs as a lever for local development, attracting investors and exhibitors from abroad and promoting domestic production. In this context it is considered necessary to introduce a single licensing framework on the basis of clear categories of exhibition sites and activities. At the same time, horizontal quality criteria that bind the owners of such sites to strengthen the commercial value and the recognizability of the activity shall be established for the first time. Special attention shall be paid to the conditions for the organisation of similar short-scale and local events. Finally, the basis for setting up a register with a view to monitoring the industry is set according to quantitative indicators and to efficiently formulate a policy. All in all, therefore, we believe that the proposed provisions will help to improve the functioning of the market, remove unjustified barriers to competition and reduce administrative burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. With regard to Article 119, amending Article 68 of Law 3528/2007, as this applies, it is imported for real reasons, as the New Economy Development Fund, the so-called TANEO, is currently highly subordinated, does not have permanent staff and the assistance of posted employees due to specialised cognitive and relevant experience is deemed necessary for its operation. Given the transitional situation in TANEO in view of the establishment of the Development Bank, the experience, know-how and assistance of officials in such a specific subject as TANEO are necessary both to protect the interests of the public and its capital already invested in venture capital participations and for the smooth transition of the entity to the new regime. As regards Article 120, we amend Law 4412/2016 ‘Public Procurement’ in a harmonisation of the European framework, which allows for the issue of guarantee letters by insurance companies. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to put forward legislative improvements concerning drafting and grammar corrections in Articles 105 and 109. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much the Minister. I would ask that we start the list of speakers with Mr Balaura. We will continue with speakers and then Mr Theocharopoulos will follow, because he is the first parliamentary representative to speak. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, when I was a student in high school, I had an enlightened teacher, Alexander Kosmopoulos, who "basketed" us - so we thought then - and made us comment on Aristotle's "Athens State". I remembered and found this: “After this, you are rebelling the acquaintances and the crowd for a long time. They were the grey of them, and the other oligarchy of all, and here and there were the five rich, and they, and the children, and the women, and were called, and exponents." The meaning of the cut is clear. Before Solon, the acquaintances and the crowd were struggling for a long time. The oligarchal every state was formed by the "knowledge", what Aristotle himself calls "surpassing, fertile, rich, first". For the crowd on the other hand, i.e. the many, the mourners, as Aristotle says, uses, to express this whole, the word "murder". Who, then, constituted the ‘knowledge’? They are the noblest citizens of Athens who monopolized political power until Solon's reforms. The crowd consisted of all the others, who were called "populated" and "eectorals". So then the Athenian people rebelled and the Greek people rebelled in the 2015 referendum, in the 2015 referendum and in September of the same year, and sent you, colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, to the unclaimed. Reforms think it's the right field for you. But what are the reforms? They're fast reforms. I remembered Dario Fo's "accidental death" of an anarchist, where he said: "We will drown them in the promises of reforms, because we will never give them real reforms". Indeed, New Democracy and PASOK have supposedly carried out reforms, laws that did not dare to vote, laws that they voted on, but they did not apply, the laws that you called reforms, but were reforms. The public sector function for you was redundancies or ruffles. Especially the Chief of New Democracy is considered the most failed Minister of Administrative Reform with the largest record. On the one hand, he fired and, on the other hand, made ruffles, hired or upgraded New Democracy officials to the Ministries. An English novelist, poet, theatrical writer and politician, Edward Lytton said: "A reform is a correction of abuses. A revolution is a transition of power". We didn't revolutionize. But we did reforms. However, this English politician had not seen that correcting the abuses in Greece was not done. Because the abuses for you were even more: they were inappropriate all the time, insulting the dignity of the Greek people. It was the imperfection of morals, it was the declaration of our country. On the contrary, we carried out flagic, radical reforms. I shall mention a few, beginning with the recent ones: the licensing process by the Radiovision Council is already running. The extrajudicial compromise, which you voted on in 2000, is true, but you did not dare to apply it, fearing the great interests of the judges, writing in your old shoes the concern of the citizens for the rapid closure of their affairs. Colleagues of the JRC, we are in a very difficult time. It's not what we'd like, it's what we can and how we fight. We reinstated the employee's occupations against all the other requirements of creditors. In my opinion, the reform we have carried out in this respect is a pretext, because we have strengthened the rights of workers. We also support family benefits. Now the Minister responsible has just spoken, Mrs Fotou, and she has linked this. That's how we need to see it. I mean, when you're reforming deep, you have to have a strategy integrated. This strategy is about how we intervene. In demographic terms, this strategy has to do with how we are going to intervene fully, on the one hand, and on the other hand with unemployment and, on the other hand, with preferential benefits. So because we cannot do everything we want to do right away, we have made great moves. And Mr Brutsi, you must listen to this very well, because you were Minister of Labour and I am sorry, but you did not go ahead with what you are telling us today, and you are criticising us. Mr Brutsis, 260 million is now being given to the child and the system is being rationalised in a way that will increase some seven hundred thousand families, of the eight hundred who received family allowances. On the register, in my village we were saying 'forty years Turkish'. Forty-four years Turkish was afflicted by Greek society. He tried Venizelos to lose the election and stayed on the shelf. I won't talk about more now. Simplification of licensing procedures is a large section. The law 4442 that we voted on last year and its continuation is this bill, gives us the opportunity to reach 90% by June 2018 in electronic permits, of course with great audits, but companies will work until they are checked. They won't wait months and months or with the oil etc. Also, the regulation on the authorisation to extend the company, where many build illegally, knowing that they will pay fines, because they do not expect to pay or spend many months. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. Business parks are finally being created. I remind you that you are in neoliberal constellation that in Greece for so many years you have been ruling you have not built industrial parks. We're moving on to work. I just want to remind you that we abstained, colleagues of the JRC, from changing the time when the strikes were being called out, from denying doubling or even tripling the call time. We said that. We removed the general clause on the dismissal of trade unionists, removed the lock-out and restored the possibility of collective agreements in August 2018. So all these barbarisms have been disgusted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that we are moving towards the exit from the memoranda. For the first time, the programme will be completed with budgetary targets and interest rates being at a historically low level. But we're looking back at the helpless. That's our look. So we can't celebrate. Mr. Papachristopoulos said "BLOOMBERG" brought Greece out to better bonds than the United States. That's really important. But how can you get out and say this most important thing when you have less than a million unemployed? I would therefore like to stress this on unemployment. Nowadays we reached it at 20.7% according to the previous elements of "ERGANIS", which you occasionally invoke, etc. Inside, in a 12-month period, we reduced it to 2.5%. It is the greatest decline in unemployment in the European Union. That's what this is about. On this basis, therefore, the government demonstrates its commitment to implement every cent that the country wins in order to take those initiatives that improve the position of the majority. The Labour Inspectorate protects workers. That's undeniable. No matter what criticism you make on other issues of government policy, these cannot be silenced. The Greek people see them. He sees the social dividend that we gave to more than 3 million fellow citizens, the youth solidarity allowance received by 50 thousand young people. I wish they could find a job. I wish they had good wages. We cannot at this stage that New Democracy and PASOK led to Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u94	Emblematic reforms!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u95	Sure. In this crisis, that is the point. A Lehana builder, when I told him we had to build the old materials again, said to me: you don't know them well, because you haven't built them. You're gonna get the brick that's stuck with the sandstorm underneath and you're gonna have to do a double job. To get a new brick to pick it up, you'll have to scratch the sandstone. That's what this is about. We shave the sandy beach to build a stone of the new house called Greece, called dignity, called pride of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much Mr Balaura. He was very spectacular. Mr Ioannis Vroutzis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, by following the debate that is taking place on the famous SYRIZA - ANEL polynomial plan, I think a question arises spontaneously both within the Chamber and outside the Chamber: is there a measure of lying? Is there a measure in political unreliability? Is there a measure in political hypocrisy? I won't answer that. They'll answer your own documents. For example, Mr Tsipras's question text, which our rapporteur Christos Dimas highlighted. In 2013, when we fought for the family, we fought for the children, during the difficult budgetary period, SYRIZA voted against the benefits that we and Mr. Tsipras were giving with the text that has been tabled to us that we are giving crumbs, Ministers. Who says lies, Mrs. Fire, Mrs. Ahchioglu? Your own Member today in a secret letter to Mr. Tsipras states that you are making severe cuts in three-tiers and multiples. That's who you are! Political hypocrites! But let's actually go. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you now mature, restore the truth. The social policy that has been taking place for decades in our country has had structural problems. Of course he did. We have spent resources as a Greek state on GDP, perhaps higher than the most developed countries in Europe for decades. Yes, the benefits provided by Greece, the political system, were rich. Unfortunately, however, the indicator that judged the effectiveness of resources showed that they were ineffective, because there were overlap, there were no proper tools, they were not targeted. Indeed, in the period 2012-2014, the Samara government with a trunk of New Democracy is making the big structural change in the country. These are the two distinct pillars for changing the exercise of social policy on which Greece is now and will be founded for decades. Firstly, a minimum guaranteed income for hitting and dealing with poverty, with whatever resources. Greece entered a modern environment. SYRIZA voted against it. "Smiths" said it. "Funny" said it. The most modern social policy for Greece. He's using it today. Secondly, a distinct pillar of social policy to support the family for the New Democracy over time at its core, in its worthy system, in its political identity had both the family and the family. We have done the great incision: for the first time we have given the first and second children the limited resources. But then we have taken care of and made great additional contributions. We have given an allowance for the three-teen and tent families, because we believe that Greece has the great demographic problem to face with it by strengthening these families. Unfortunately, both the third parties and the multitude have left us politically. They didn't vote for us. Why didn't they vote for us? For there was then Mr Tsipras who, in this letter, poisoned society and all of SYRIZA, saying that what we give is crumbs. That's all, Mrs. Ahchioglu, Minister of Labour!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u98	Don't have so much hatred!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u99	It's not hate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u100	What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u101	It's a reality, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u102	Don't have so much hatred!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u103	We restore the truth. So this text is what SYRIZA haunts and shows its political hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u104	Don't have so much hatred!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u105	What's up today? We are listening to the other Minister, Mrs. Fotou, saying that we have given a lot of money to the three-tiers and tenants. That's what he told the committee. This is the reality, gentlemen, of SYRIZA, hypocrites, who today will vote for the reduction of the allowances to third-party poor families, to a large number of poor families, who have been electionally lured and deceived.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u106	Wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u107	Say evidence!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u108	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u109	This is the lie of SYRIZA, which today gets this allowance from multitude and tritecs, which for others is 100%, for others is 25%, for others is 30%. That's who you are. Today you will vote on both hands. Your colleague, the SYRIZA MEP, made a statement just before, fearing that "... now I will vote for it, beyond what I have written." But let us go to the second big issue, which is also important. The second major issue, ladies and gentlemen, is the strike and its declaration. What are you doing today? Do you realize that Mrs. Ahchioglu, the SYRIZA Minister, is making fun of you? Have you realised that you are abolishing the right to declare a strike on a pan-Hellenic and regional scale union? Do you understand that? Are you aware of SYRIZA's legal acronym and legal alchemy? In practice, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt about us in the New Democracy that trade unionism is an adjunct to democracy. Healthy union, the declaration of the strike is the most recent, most important right, which must be exercised on criteria and have the participatory process of the majority of workers and not of a parasitic small group, which has been using this for decades for personal reasons and for micro-group purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u110	This is the history of parasites in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u111	Here is the political difference between who is next to the worker and who is hypocritically standing next to the worker and who is hitting his back with his hand today. That's our proposal. What's SYRIZA coming up today and doing? Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u112	Is that the story of the labour movement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u113	On the proposal from SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, which you are defending - alchemy, I must tell you that its vote will be contradictory. The next day that this law is going to apply to a pan-Hellenic or regional association, to the supermarket, to OTE, to PPC, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u114	It's not legal. It's the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u115	That's what you say. There is no explicit exception to the explanatory statement either, firstly. There should be an explicit exception to the explanatory statement. Mrs. Ahchioglu didn't do it. He's mocking you and making fun of you, as he did with team redundancies. Secondly, in the text of the law referred to in Article 20 of Law No 1264/1982, what is the Minister for Labour and SYRIZA doing badly? Because you're all partners and co-responsibles. It leaves the text in a simple reference and does not say, recognizing that it takes account of Law 1264. What does that mean? That the moment it is voted, the newer provision will come into force. So make the main Minister now make the two amendments, firstly in the recital and, secondly, in the text of the law, to make it clear now that regional and pan-Hellenic unions can strike. Because the next day, if a strike is called, you must know that the trade unions who have ordered a strike will immediately be brought to the courts, will find their trouble and will at the same time cancel the strikes by the courts, because the text is now contradictory and, of course, the new provision will apply. Here, what are you, gentlemen of SYRIZA? You're making fun of the workers. You even mock them in this matter of the strike and of her proclamation. I am waiting for the Minister for Labour to answer me, because, among us, I know many of you from the SYRIZA who have seen the matter and you know that the order is in the air. It's hypocritical. You dare ask the Minister to change it. Then it will really seem what the truth is, because I do not think there will be even a member of the SYRIZA who objects to what I am saying about the validity of provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u116	Of course we have an objection!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u117	This is behind SYRIZA's arrangement. Ladies and gentlemen, we have requested an electronic vote. Greece has to go forward. We must put the workers through the maturity of their trade union rights to decide on their future. I therefore hear the argument that it is difficult to put an electronic vote with the New Democracy's proposal to involve 50% of the workers. Here, who wants the workers close to the decision-making area on critical issues, New Democracy! I hear from the side of SYRIZA and the government that it is difficult. Well, wasn't it hard to build an electronic platform for electronic auctions to divest real estate? Minister, is this easier than setting up an electronic base to vote for 50% of the workers? That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I invite you to think very much about both of the provisions I mentioned before you vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u120	As strict staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u121	What personal, Mr. President? There's no staff. It's political.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u122	It helps dialogue, Mr. Comrade. Don't ruin it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u123	Here, Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u124	I will answer this question in relation to what changes and what does not change the arrangement on how to declare the strikes. I said it yesterday in committee, but I will make it clear from the outset. The arrangement affects exclusively the quorum rule, when the general meeting is convened, in order to make a decision on strike for the primary unions which are not a part of Greece or a wider region. The reason for this is that all-Global workers' associations in supermarkets, chains, banks or more geographical areas with one shop, for example in one municipality and another in another municipality, are not affected. In these associations, in order to take a strike decision, the decision shall be taken by their board of directors. Law 1264/1982 is very clear in this respect. Clearly, the provision currently in the multi-legislative draft is also very clear because Article 8 provides precisely the quorums at the general meetings. Until yesterday was indeed 1/3 of the financially settled members, and with the arrangements that come, it says that the quorum at the general assemblies, when a strike decision is made, becomes 1/2 of the financially settled members. That was the explanation I gave yesterday to the committee. A completely different article stipulates what is happening to the associations of all over the world and of a wider geographical area, where the Board of Directors decides there. It is Article 20 of Law 1264/1982. It says that the strike in the early trade unions of a wider region or part of a country is declared by a decision of the board of directors. Sticks and clears! This issue is not affected. The regulation contained in the multi-brand plan does not affect the primary associations of the whole of Greece and a wider region, as well as does not affect secondary trade unions, workers' centres, federations or, of course, the higher trade union organization, as well as Article 20 of Law No 1264/1982 is clear and the decision is taken by the Board of Directors. It was the proposal of the New Democracy that I also explained yesterday and talks about two issues, where it is very clear how different it is from the regulation currently in Parliament. New Democracy proposes a strike decision to be taken by the "50%+1" of the financially settled members of the club who pay for their subscriptions. Attention! The proposal of the New Democracy does not say that there should be a quorum with '50%+1'. It says that the decision must be taken by '50%+1'. In other words, it does not change the quorum rule, it does not say how many should attend a convention, but it says how many should vote for the strike. I would like to clarify once again, and I think that anyone who has open ears is listening, that at the moment the strike decision is taken by the relevant majority of the present. This will also be the case following the adoption of the regulation in the Multifibre Arrangement. The decision will be taken by the relevant majority of the present, contrary to the New Democracy's proposal, which calls for half of the financially qualified members of the association to be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u125	Please. We must make it easier for the Minister to continue with the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u126	I'll finish. Give me half a second. Let me give an example, as I said yesterday in committee. As long as we have a business with a hundred and fifty people and a hundred people in the union are registered. Of these eighty pay their subscriptions, they are affordable. I'm always talking about a primary club that's not a larger area or a whole country. The eighty, then, are affordable. With the regulation we bring to Parliament, what do we say? We say that forty should be in a room when there is a general meeting. To be found, not to vote for the strike. If there is a proposal for a 20-year strike, a proposal that says "no strike" and vote for ten other ten votes in white, will become a lasting strike.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u127	Twenty?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u128	With twenty, in a business of a hundred and fifty people. It's a random example.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u129	Madam Minister, you will also speak tomorrow when you have your speech. Please. I say this because Mr Brutsi will also want to speak, and we have many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u130	I'll be done. It is important, however, that we do not have any impressions of talking about these. With the New Democracy proposal, in the same example as the eighty members who are financially settled in the association, it should be, since forty are in the assembly, and forty to vote for the strike, there should be unanimity to make a strike. I think that if anyone wants to have open ears, he sees whether the rules currently in Parliament restrict the right to strike. In our view, it does not restrict it or, of course, abolish it, contrary to the New Democracy proposal, which substantially curtails the trade union right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. I'm going to give Mr. Brutsi the floor. Then Mr. Maniotis will be followed. Please, Mr. Brutsi, be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to be useful and beneficial in the debate that is taking place, because we are talking about an extremely sensitive, critical and different issue. What the Minister said about the position of the New Democracy is, of course, our position. We're clear. But one difference. We want the majority of workers to vote online and, electronically, to give the worker the feeling that he is participating and deciding. I am, however, going to the question that we raise and have a different view. We believe that the regulation, the legislation that the Minister brings, annulsss the strike in Greek and regional unions. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And that's why? There's two words missing. Two words. It's that simple. First, to clarify that they are excluded in the recital.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u133	It's another article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u134	Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, be written in the text of the law ‘without prejudice to Article 20 of Law 1264’. Because if this is not done, they are then fully regional, global and local unions, and the courts will lose the strike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u135	You don't have lawyers in the party?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Brutsi. Mr. Antoniou has the floor. Then Mr. Maniotis will speak and then Mr. Papadopoulos will speak. Mr. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft legislation under discussion, all the loose ends in a positive and forward-looking way, so that the way to reach an agreement on the Eurogroup of 22 January can be opened. Our country is marching with steady and certainly steps to exit from the close committee in August 2018. This is now accepted by both enemies and friends. Our pursuit is a net outlet without a credit line, which would mean new commitments and new obligations. This is gradually built, methodically and consistently in the exercise of our economic policy. Already the climate is changing. Trust gradually returns. Unemployment is deviating. Industrial production and exports recover. The aim is that the positive sizes of the economy begin to reach our fellow citizens, especially the economically weaker ones. Due to a limited period of time I will concentrate my position on some of the points of the bill that have been ignored and have not been raised as much as it should have been during the debate, but which the economic press has shown in a positive way, and also the representatives of the bodies at the hearing in this House. The bill as a whole has a positive development footprint in general. It resolves issues that have been pending for years and have been consistent requests from the country's productive world, demands that did not require costs, but were being killed in bureaucratic fighting, the immobilisation of the inertia and the vulnerability of the public administration. Important and developmental are the provisions of the bill to simplify and speed up authorisation procedures for enterprises, reduce bureaucracy, transparency and efficiency. Under Law 4442/2016, unequal authorisation was introduced by means of a simple notification, where more than twenty thousand enterprises have now been subject to them. With the existing bill all other activities are gradually integrated, with the aim of the next summer of 2018 to have been placed under the new regime over 90% of the country's economic activities. Today's bill completes the major reform of the process of business licensing and extends to the process of setting up companies. Installation permits shall now be granted for the total degree of nuisance of the undertaking. The individual approvals for each addition of computer equipment or for modernisation have been abolished, so that the time, administrative burden and costs for each operation are drastically reduced. More specific arrangements exist for the licensing of quartz and mining activities and the modernisation of the operating and control framework, which were identified as positive from the industry at the hearing of operators. There are also new positive regulations in the framework of market control and surveillance and in the interests of consumer protection. Additional arrangements to improve the business environment are the arrangements for business parks, the new operating framework of the Industrial Property Organisation and the patent protection system adapted to European standards. Academia is being created, not as a legal person, but as a programme by the Industrial Property Organisation. It puts an end to the hostage status of Law 3526/2007 regarding bakeries and new, clean rules for the establishment and operation of bakeries are introduced. Traditional bakerys and traditional bakerys are strengthened. Finally, the framework of archaeological research and work, as well as the necessary expropriations, is regulated and modernised so as to avoid delays in public works and additional and significant costs. More specific reference should be made to the positive arrangements for the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with these regulations, new more effective, development incentives are introduced to enterprises: First, a new incentive is part of the Income Tax Code, whereby the profits of the company from the sale of its production products used internationally recognised patent in the name of the same undertaking are exempted from income tax for the three consecutive uses. The possibility is for public limited companies, whose shares on the Stock Exchange, to capitalise on the tax-free reserves of various development laws at a rate of 5%. The possibility is also offered to public limited companies, whose shares are not listed on the Stock Exchange and to limited companies, to capitalise the tax-free reserves of various development laws at a rate of 10%. Finally, in order to combat major economic crime, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is set up as the "Address for Investigations of Economic Crime". It is served with thirty-five auditors, has the Treasury's headquarters and will be co-ordinated by the Prosecutor of Economic Crime. The task of the service is solely to carry out ex ante investigations or preliminary investigations to verify the performance of a major criminal fraudulent tax crimes, tax evasion and tax fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, the caravan is moving on a steady path, a goal and a destination, without disorientating from desert reflectations and traps. The left-hand parentheses scenario no longer finds any producer or director because it is not expected to cut tickets in elementary terms and cover production costs. History will write that you - I mean New Democracy and Democratic Incorporation - have put Greece in the memorials, and this government will make it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have confused them with my SYRIZA colleagues. I was watching them when you were trying to substantiate something that is in complete contrast with what Mr Chakalotos told us earlier. SYRIZA colleagues, is the provision for the declaration of strikes left as a provision from the current status, as the Minister claims, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u140	The question is not to answer, ladies and gentlemen. Please don't all answer together. A little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u141	Because Mr Tsakalotos told us that we have lost at this point. The Minister now told us we won. What do you think? If it is such a positive provision, should we extend it to regional trade unions and those which are of a wholehearted nature? In any case, resolve this issue. Is it a left intervention or a right-wing conservative intervention? And when you're on the channels, get to know each other what you're gonna say. We're going to vote against it anyway. We are here to discuss four hundred articles in the third evaluation of the Tsipra Memorandum. To know how we started and where we were. A hundred billion dollars the cost of the tutorial to get Mr. Tsipras to rule. Another 100 billion Greeks' debt to the Greek public. Of this debt, 25 billion have been created in the last three years. Is that a left-wing government? Because I would say that in the word "SYRIZA" "rotative" you should probably replace it with "casine glossary". Because this is the first time I have seen a European government, much more a government that wants to appear as a leftist, which makes this interesting: it reduces VAT on casinos, but increases VAT on Aegean islands that accept immigrants. It reduces taxation on casinos up to 8% for over a certain amount, but increases taxation on small and medium-sized enterprises and increases insurance contributions in order not to dare to work longer. This is the left-wing policy you want to pursue. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, the three-tiers and the many-tiers called the government's willingness to cut benefits to third-tiers and multitude families as a national crime. That's not an exaggeration. And in order to get together, because in the everyday life of politics one party or another can be taken away from each other: Fellowships and colleagues, the demographic decline of Greece, Greece of today's 11 million, which is at risk of becoming a 30-year-old Greece of 8.5 million, is before us as a threat. There can be no micro-party games and the current government chooses which party customers will serve more. And the Minister proudly tell us: 'Don't worry about it, I'll hurt private sector benefits, but I won't touch the public sector benefits'. This is how we will face the top national threat that is demographic contraction, when we all know that the answer to this big issue is a unique one? The creation of a large network of full-day day nurseries and primary schools, so that mother and father know that at least twelve years of child delivery the state has taken care of the elementary services. Because Mrs. Fotius wanted to tell us something about the government's graciousness, to remind her that in 2014 there was not a single child left outside nurseries. In 2017, according to her statement, 15 thousand were left and on the basis of the press release of the central association of municipalities, forty thousand children left outside of nursery stations. Therefore, respect for the intelligence of Greek citizens. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr Tsakalotos also threatened us yesterday that we have not seen everything. Minister, we really haven't seen everything. Don't swear. We believe you. You don't even have a red line. You've trampled all of them, be they what you say at your inner-party audience or what you say in public. Let's remember. You signed, colleagues of the SYRIZA, with the Government's urge to reduce duty by 3,000 euros. Do you forget? You signed the extinction of the CSCE. You signed the disappearance of the personal difference. And now you have signed a reduction in the main pensions. Is that the account you're trying once more to tell Greek citizens that we're supposedly going out on a clean way out? Because this is the new political fraud. That the country's supposedly out of the market. A country committed by 2060 for primary surpluses of over 2% and committed by 2020 and 2022 to further cuts. Ladies and gentlemen, because I do not have much time, I shall deal briefly with three issues. Mr. Statakis, I'm glad you're here. First of all, Mr. Nicholas made a complaint to you earlier. He reported that with what you're going to legislate on the Land register you're covering a scandal. You'll answer him because it's a personal report. He said not to go into liquidation means covering up a scandal. You need to answer him. For him, and Mr. Nicholopoulou and his various insinuations, the saying of George Papandreou, the "pay of the Republic", obviously applies, that you respond to anyone worth answering. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Energy exchange. You found it ready. The study on the alternative scenarios was submitted in September 2014. The consultation was completed in December 2014. We said at the time: "Watch geopolitical. Turkey, Hungary, Bulgaria and Serbia will catch up." And because for three years you've been in nitrovana energy, we've been caught. They made power exchanges before we did. It is certainly a good thing that there is a Energy Exchange and we will be voting in favour of it. But once again we have lost a geopolitical opportunity. Another comment on the mineral wealth and to come to an agreement between us. To save the country, money has to come from somewhere. And the country's mineral wealth, as mentioned yesterday by the Mining Enterprises Association, can be the basis for another production model. The contribution of the mineral wealth today is only 3.5% in the Gross Domestic Product. A hundred thousand workers are employed. Do you know how far this can be? It can be 10% of GDP. But in order to do this, the investor must have a legal certainty. It cannot invest in the long term and wait for what will be decided by any committee of any body, when it effectively applies what is laid down in legislation, namely environmental licensing, the consequence of labour legislation, the payment of offenders and fees to local communities. Otherwise no one will come to invest. I would remind you that 70,000,000 euros are estimated to be on the territory of the country from mineral wealth, from marble to any other industrial or other mineral. Let's use it. And just a word for the Stock Exchange. Minister, because we are going to vote against all the efforts you are making on the register, because you are once again creating obstacles to normal development and push to resignation, in essence, you are extinguishing, fifty-one experienced lawyers in the register, at least take advantage of the experience that exists in this area. In this way you can also be justified against Mr Nicholas. Dear SYRIZA colleagues, there is the political mutation and the political transformation that is before our eyes. I urge you not to consent to this game of government, because all of us account for the citizens who elect us. That is why we are going to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniots.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u144	Of course, Mr Minister, but do not answer Mr Nicholas because he is not here. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u145	Not Mr. Nikolopoulos, Mr. Manatis. I want you to understand why Mr. Maniotis has the psychology to say that SYRIZA has added 100 billion to the debt. A hundred billion added the eight - year PASOK in the 1980s. Another 100 added the eight - year - old Simitis to reach 200 and another 100, New Democracy in the four - year - old Karamanlis, and we reached 300. So, there's a psychological one on that side that every administration added 100 billion to the debt. We received a debt of 317 billion and it is 323 billion. I mean, no increase. Your attempt to add to us that we brought 100 billion more, psychoanalytically explains. Every governance of yours was 100 billion. Now there's no increase. Unfortunately, things have changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, please speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u147	In other words, you will have to answer for the New Democracy now and for the merciful Andreas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u148	Give me the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u149	Okay. Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Statakis, I really appreciate your position. We understood the following: Firstly, that 100 billion of the country's debt was added to the Karamanlis rule. Secondly, we also understood from your position that you are probably ignoring the name Recling. He is an ESS gentleman who said that SYRIZA negotiations added 100 billion to the country's debt. After all this, you can see that you are really driving the country on clean exit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, seventeen students and students and two educational attendants from the high school and the lyric ranks of Armenian Larissa. The House welcomes them. Happy New Year! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Konstantinos Spartinos has the floor, and then the Parliamentary Representative for Democratic Incorporation Mr. Theocharopoulos, Mr. Hatzidakis and the Deputy Minister of Education will be followed immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that the dear Minister, Mr Stathakis, has prevented me, because as I listened to this interesting line by Mr. Maniotis, about how much the school cost Greece to learn from Tsipras and SYRIZA ruling, the Minister gave the answer, but I think he gave part of the answer. He said exactly the same thing about the debt issue. I would say that we could easily add to this and the phase he put PASOK with the loan he took, add the phase of the New Democracy, add the gifts to the friends, friends and "lamoyas" and then see, together with the hundreds of millions of millions said by the Minister, how much the governance of PASOK and the New Democracy has all cost in Greek society. Does one wonder: So to say a line, does one not think what is behind this line or what may arise? And why would he scratch in his cup? It would be a pity, however, if, in plenary debate on this bill, only three to four issues, which have been dealt with - more right and more too far - and the meetings of committees and public opinion in the last few days. After all, as we approach the end of evaluations and supervision, which daily increases the irritation and discomfort of all the counter-population - and of the right and the left - the debate and interest of society will be increasingly focused on the issues that will give way to the deadlocks that have emerged in an explosive and painful way, but that their genealogical causes are long before the time of the crisis, at the time of the pivotal prosperity and obscene indifference. Because, as we have said, we are not targeting a blind return to the premier models. We have stressed many times that in order for the country to be able to get through to an economic recovery, a basic condition is fair and sustainable development and I think that this draft law is going ahead with this objective. Let me refer to some very important regulations that are included in the plan, which highlight our efforts precisely for this fair and sustainable development. That is why I would like to take the time to address, in particular, the section of the bill concerning parts of the Ministry of Economy and Development, from Articles 127 to Articles 175. First of all, I would like to refer to the very important legislative framework, in my opinion, which seeks a holistic, planned and coordinated effort to monitor and monitor the market and its economic activities. The current situation in this area is largely characterised by a variety of legislation overlap, ambiguity and gaps, a lack of coordination between supervisory authorities and control mechanisms, a lack of planning and planning even within the framework of supervision and control of the same activity, the same category of products and services, between different bodies within the same Ministry, as between central and regional authorities. It is also characterised by a lack of effective monitoring of the activities, products and services subject to the relevant legislative requirements, as well as of the sites of equipment and production facilities, processing, distribution, disposal and service. It is characterised by a lack of an integrated information system both for the recording and evaluation of relevant data and for the recording of the results of supervision, compliance measures taken and to be taken, the penalties imposed, etc. It is also characterised by a lack of an integrated information system for both supervised bodies and consumers and all interested parties in the legislative framework, requirements, regulations, standards and specifications relating to supervision. It is characterized by a lack of staff with appropriate knowledge and experience or there is a lack of staff with different knowledge on the same or related subject of supervision. Finally, it focuses mainly on repressive controls and the deterioration of preventive controls, which are the most important factor in the proper functioning of the market and in the protection of consumers and citizens. For example, we are looking today for a gas tank in a fastenerhouse and we have been victims, and we are not taking steps to make preventive checks on how they are produced, how they are imported, how they are moved, how they are installed, how the LPG bottles, food, products and everything else are installed. Because, as you will have seen, a very wide range of activities, products and services, which are subject to specific legislation, are included within the framework of market surveillance. The whole of this situation is a reduced effectiveness of supervision and the poor application of relevant legislation, the inability to provide adequate protection for the health and safety of citizens, the environment, consumers, healthy competition, the public interest, the non-implementation of the principle of proportionality, both in the design and planning of controls relating to the degree of risk to the activity of products and services and to compliance measures and to sanctions - that is to say, to present the phenomenon of repeated and frequent controls, to the same activities, products and materials and to have a full absence of others, without specific, reasoned reason - the absence of coordination for joint controls by different supervisory authorities in the same undertaking, so that these authorities cooperate with each other and with resources and instruments for public bodies' mechanisms and the failure to meet the needs of supervision, in particular in the design of political actions and the use of existing experienced personnel in proper post-training. The bill therefore addresses the causes of these problems, which have been suffering from a long time ago, because no one for decades had been interested in creating them in a single, serious and designed system, and are inadequacies and ignorances for the integrated implementation of a system of supervision and control, a system of proportionate, deterrent and effective. In the end, it is possible with this legislative framework to focus on preventive controls, which, together with the responsible and reliable information and support of supervised persons, can create a different landscape on the market and on state control mechanisms. I think that these regulations and others which exist in the part of the Ministry of Development, which Mr Antoniou referred to earlier, prove once again the objective of strengthening healthy and quality entrepreneurship, combating unfair competition, but also of protecting the health and safety of citizens, consumers and the environment, within the framework of an investment strategy that the country should have and not the service of a particular oligarchy, which only aims at a temporary and rapid gain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Congressman Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou has requested permission from a short-day absence for the period from 13 January to 20 January 2018. It will go to a European country for professional obligations. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u154	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliamentary spokesman from the Democratic Integration Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing to the vote - because there is certainly no real debate - a bill of four hundred articles and a thousand five hundred pages, with a minimum consultation time, almost zero in relation to its volume, in which you legislate exactly the opposite of what you promised to come to power. I am not talking about January 2015, but also September 2015. Because you often say you said that in September. Most of the things that exist today, you hadn't said in September. Of course you continue not only what you have done as an opposition, but also as a government, a common inter-personality, to be commemorative and anti-monstrous, memorial to what you sign up for and bring, anti-money in your speeches. When we told you, of course, that there was virtually no separation and any such separation was artificial, you said that this was not the case. Now that you sign these, you've forgotten what you were saying. When will you finally become even less honest and talk about the dark side of the moon? Citizens need to know the truth. Citizens have exceeded their limits of endurance because of your own practiced policies and the deadlocks you constantly create. They are exhausted, no matter how much Mr Chakalotos mentions reports to prove that citizens are now happier than before. I saw here in committee that Mr. Tsakalotos analysed the index of world happiness, to show that the happiness of Greeks and Greeks has risen. Are these really arguments now? Mr. Tsakalotos, who was talking about abolishing dutyfree, said that if it ever happens, he would resign the next day, he did not give up, the dutyfree was reduced, but the Greeks and Greeks according to Mr. Tsakalotos are happier! Do you really think that any of these arguments are convinced? The impoverishment of this argument is evident. After all, you have voted for dozens of measures in advance in the State Budget of 2018. Finally, we told you, and speakers have told you so far of the Democratic Incorporation - to sell the so-called narrative of exiting from the crisis, that the country is supposed to break the blockages from the austerity programmes and to evade creditors from Greece forever, with these policies that are currently being conducted. The country's exit from the crisis on the basis of your policies at all levels is no longer just a wish that does not respond to any reality, but still a political fraud, because it can no longer be a delusion. With this policy being pursued, the country is not coming out of the crisis. Policy needs to be changed immediately, with productive reconstruction plan and sustainable development. What are you talking about when Greece continues to be the exception throughout the European Union, when you have committed the country with your signature, for example, for the next five years in primary surpluses of 3.5%, not to say by 2060 for the surpluses of 2% or for the country's surplus and public property for a century? Of course, you have told Mr Koutsouko that it is not for a century, it is for ninety years. All right, these are arguments that I think everyone understands that not only are they convinced, but they actually lead the political system as a whole, unfortunately, to a dead end. What are your steps to testify to the definitive and safe exit from the crisis? There aren't any. You've pledged the public property to the superstition for a century. Now you're actually transferring the TECs right there and you don't even do what you had planned with the TEC. For these things you used to be in the bars. And for these topics correctly, for water, for example, HYDAP, ELTA, HYDAT, Urban Transport and how many more businesses. But even the water? We asked you when you brought them in and you didn't answer them. Now that you're going straight to the overseer, we might get an answer. In the years of your counter-population, these businesses had a different symbolism for you. Is this the so-called consistent or how much left-wing policy? You have not created conditions for sustainable development and environment that are friendly to attract investment, domestic and foreign. I heard the Prime Minister the other day saying that we will start the productive reconstruction plan from the summer. Ladies and gentlemen, you are three years in the governance of the country, three years, and we still have not seen a national plan for productive reconstruction, even adjusting it, change it. None. What are you doing now? Casino. Is that the fair growth you were visionating? We therefore see great importance in setting up the general framework for the licensing and operation of casino businesses. Twenty articles today for this purpose. Of course you are making a commitment to new investments in these areas. Of course, the company will make new investments, since it will be active in another region. This is not the main issue, however, but the possibility of a limited number of entrepreneurs having chains. These on the right-wing government would not give rise to any surprise. After all, the New Democracy's dear colleagues and we are monitoring them on strikes, we do not understand their position. At first, they began to say that "we don't like it, because it should be tougher strikes legislation, which is coming". Now they're saying something different. I think that the SYRIZA and the New Democracy dialogues are really enjoyable today on the issue of strikes. For optimism and for market exits and longer-term lending there are criteria that make things very difficult. It is this darkest side of the moon, which we have just spoken about, which the government systematically avoids talking or concealing. Of course, exiting the market sounds rather like a promise from you, as a return promise, that we will become again as we were and do what we wanted, for example, just like before the crisis, before the memoranda, in 2004-2009. However, I too, ladies and gentlemen, have listened for the first time here to the Minister for Development, Mr Stathakis, to say that Mr Karamanlis's administration has charged the country 100 billion. It is an admission today, which we are recording, because it has not been done so far. Of course, I do not see the current Minister, who was part of Karamanlis, here, confirming that this is his point of view too. In any case, however, I would like to say that it is an admission which we are hearing for the first time. As for the public debt, I can't bring back what you've been saying before. But in the negotiations, in fact, you have achieved nothing substantial. In fact, there is not even the discharge that Mr Tsipras is talking about even now, because that is how we continue to make fun of ourselves. This is where we need to negotiate effectively. What has been regulated does not give a long-term solution, and that is why in the years to come this issue has to be resolved in the long term. So all you say is quite opposite - that is the strange thing - of what you do and are reflected in the articles in the bill we are discussing. I hear a lot of SYRIZA Members speaking. In fact, some of the things they say must be done. But what they do in these articles today, what we are legislating and what you are voting on, is completely opposite. As long as you look at the provisions on auctions. Auctions are now being established solely by electronic means from now on. Of course, a non paper was released here by the Ministry of Justice, which states that the conduct of the auction by electronic means also achieves the minimisation of personal costs. So perhaps you think we should also congratulate you on this social intervention. And the government has told us that auctions are now planned to be exclusively electronically, otherwise they are blocked by the mobilisations, where people of the underworld have participated and participated. I do not know if you mean Mrs Constantopoulos, who had been put by the President of the Parliament, Mr Tsipras, or Mr Lafazanis, who had Mr Tsipras, Minister for Productive Reconstruction. These are not arguments. If there's a case like this, we'll see. But if you think that those who are protesting or who are currently going on in these specific matters are only the people of the underworld, you really live in another world. It is uncomfortable to wonder, of course, who has raised this monster of lawlessness, the invasion of the courtrooms with its tolerance, because tolerance to these phenomena is consensual. The draft law's evaluation report emphasises that such a practice does not exist anywhere in the countries of the European Union and the OECD. We have stressed this on several occasions. The solutions are neither simple nor costless. Banks are the heart of the economy and they must clean up of red loans so that they can refinance the economy and the small and medium-sized enterprises, but also pay their costs. Otherwise, we don't see growth. The government should first draw a clear distinction between strategic malpractices and the contributors. Many examples show that he has not done so. At the same time, the first residence of the so-called popular households must be ensured, because it is in the air for the following period, which ends the protection from previous laws. Is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government doing anything to protect the first residence for the period after the end of its protection? We learn that lenders are vetoing, not accepting. What's going on in the negotiation? Will you make an effective negotiation to ensure that? You had to give the trademark to the first home protection society, not the protection of auctions, and the social consequences, of course, may be painful and unforeseen. Let me not remind you now what you were saying about the strikes, which you are now bringing, after the well-known advances, a proposal by lenders, because, of course, you have neither been able to negotiate effectively or to consult with the social actors in the country. And, of course, the absence of consultation and social dialogue is causing social tensions. We are not saying that he does not want a modernization today, for then, a law, thirty-five years ago, in 1982. But, you can't do that. It's the opposite. We cannot continue with the aim of immobilization, nor with the 'decide and order' of the institutions. You do not negotiate effectively, and at the end you accept everything. I heard about the strikes by Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Tsakalotou. One day I heard Mr Tsakalotos say that we lost in this field of negotiation, which had been guaranteed in previous years, the next day we heard Mrs Ahtsioglu say why there is actually no problem with this legislation. At some point I thought they were arguing with each other. But then I heard the same people say exactly the opposite of what each one of them had said before. In other words, Mrs Ahtsoglu and Mr Tsakalotos have essentially disagreed with themselves! The SYRIZA Members, ladies and gentlemen, have been confused in the argument. Make a decision: Is this measure okay, it is charitable or have you had to accept it in the negotiation and have you not been able to negotiate? One of the two might be true. Both of them can't be done at the same time. Of course, when we talk about protecting the worker, we can see some other arrangements. Because in such a multi-brand plan we cannot discuss any arrangements. A characteristic example is the regulation you are bringing about in the prevention of accidents and the compensation of workers. With the provision you are proposing, not only should the worker who has suffered an accident or, in the event of death, his relatives be brought to justice, but he must now prove the deceit of the employer, which goes beyond the violation of the existing legislation. In other words, it is much more difficult to prove, which, of course, favours employers or the 'capital', as you would say before the mutation. What are you actually doing in this arrangement? Not to be able to get the compensation for many years. Let's say practically, that the workers understand it. There are other arrangements, therefore, which in this bill there are still fines, because there can be no debate as it should be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u156	The exact opposite!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u157	Not to mention the "social" nature of the provisions of your bill. After so many reductions in pensions and repeated increases in taxes, you are now reducing the family allowances for third parties and tenants. I shall not refer either to the SYRIZA MEP and to her document to the Prime Minister, in which she is essentially referring to as being an unfair reduction with clear words and an article which, while unjust, will also be voted on by her! We heard Mr Tsakalotos analyzing us yesterday because we need to strengthen the second child, the first child and not the third or fourth child. But family support with one and two children should be parallel to the threeteen and the tents. What kind of social automation is that? What redistribution of poverty is that? I see here how Mrs Fotou refers to the committees - and I say this about the Minutes of the House - which describes the fact that they do not concern the public family, which you see. The reduction in family allowances relates exclusively to the private sector, says Mrs Fotou. The public has its own benefits, says Mrs Fotio, which we do not touch. Your argument, in other words, is that you are cutting off the tertiary and polytext benefits in the private sector rather than in the public sector. This social automation against the private sector is supported, and on the other hand, we have seen the New Democracy support for social automation against the public sector and for the private sector. Without social cohesion, therefore, and without at the same time developing public and private sectors, the country can never come out of the crisis. You must understand that very well, both in SYRIZA and in the New Democracy. Mr Tsakalotos said that this bill includes some of the things that we wanted to do and some that we did not want to do. What you certainly do not want is the direct payment of public debt to private individuals and their suppliers, a problem which is not solved, because that is nowhere again. This seems to have prevented you from negotiating it, not to mention the fact that there is little liquidity in the economy. Because without liquidity, which is the major problem at the moment of the banks and the Greek economy, there can be no way out of the crisis. The General Accounting Office of the State, of course, is unable to assess all these financial implications and does not give numbers - and how to give for so many articles in so many days! - except for the issue of allowances, and in fact you are voting in general more than is required by creditors. "We found a priest, to bury five to six"! This applies to today's multi-project. And it seems that your government's favorite theater is "So is, if you think" with what you're saying. I have heard Mrs Ahtsoglou say about the opposition that, if reality does not agree with her, the worst thing about reality. I think, however, that it really is addressed within the government, because reality, everyday life, is exactly the opposite of what you are describing. With the policy, therefore, and the dogmatic austerity of SYRIZA - ANEL, the deadlocks will continue. Of course, the policies currently being pursued are also policies of the New Democracy, except that the New Democracy believes them, while SYRIZA pretends to be imposed on him. And, of course, in order to overcome the crisis, we need a change of policy, an effective negotiation, a progressive policy, with the aim of reducing the waste of resources, with structural reforms. A healthy productive model of development with harmonious coexistence between private and public sectors, with the strengthening of healthy entrepreneurship, with social cohesion and quality social policy services. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are unable to formulate wider consensus on a national exit plan from the crisis. That's what we'll do at the right time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mrs Pappigiga has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Hatzidakis will be followed. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches by Mr Brutsi and Mrs Ahtsoglou were really of great interest. It seems that these are two speeches that conflict with each other. Whatever conflict there is is this conflict that fully supports this rotten system where we live, the anti-grass, the anti-virus. This conflict needs the system absolutely. She needed it in the past, too. We had the conflict between New Democracy and PASOK etc. It's nothing new. Mr Brutsis - I don't know if he got away with it, I guess it's his opinion, he didn't just get away with it, that's the basic point of view of the New Democracy - he said that measures need to be taken so that strikes from a minority of parasites do not take place. Let him study the history of the labour movement and show us that this is a labour movement organised by a minority of parasites. I'd say at least he has to apologize to the hundreds dead. The insurance system didn't do it, gentlemen! But Mrs. Achioglu? Mrs Ahchioglu appeared to love the labour union movement and wants to raise democratic participation in it! That is why he puts an additional obstacle, which is why he is grinding the breast of the employer against the development of the trade unions. From two seemingly different aspects the same objective. The common objective of both - I say symbolically, I do not want to personalise the issue - is that workers, poor farms, self-employed people must do their own - national, indeed - objectives, the objectives of capitalists, whether they have casinos, whether they are in the banks or are shipowners, etc. That must be a national objective! Here you agree, no matter how much you fight each other. In this controversy the smaller parties are taking part. Why are confrontation going up from both the smaller parties to New Democracy and SYRIZA? Now the one-party governments are overtaken. The system cannot deal with its intrinsic problems with one-party governments. So every day the controversy between the two possible firsts in the next election will increase and the others will fight, to see who they will go and who they will leave. I hear today in the channels: all opposition parties will vote against the bill of the government! That's how it is. We don't question it. However, this 'according' hides a umbilical cord between the parties and the opposition parties - it is clear that we have nothing to do with this umbilical cord - and with the government. As far as the New Democracy is concerned - and I ask you very much to take care of it - we know who your main opponent is, the permanent and time-consuming one and we understand you. You come along, hate, say - I will not speak in scientific terms - the communist ideology and it would be strange not to do so. And you do well from your point of view, from what you represent. But when you want to hit communist ideology, hit the communist ideology. Read it for a while. It's a lot. Read some representative works and fight it. You don't need to identify the communist ideology with SYRIZA's flammable, aerial and theoretically illustrious bulwarks, who have taken away the government, but didn't take power, and a number of things and hand them all over Lenin, Marx and Engels. You show SYRIZA as a government with communist ideas. SYRIZA had a left profile. Left DNA, excuse me, but he didn't even have 4%. I repeat DNA. Profile, yes, left! So on this occasion - I say this for the New Democracy - you have a double role. On the one hand, you hide the real cause of your competition with SYRIZA, which is an competition for who will have the upper hand in the management of the system, in the course of upgrading Greece to the war, military and other plans of the region, in the deepening of the European Union, you hide your competition, not your class contrast, and on the other, you make conscious, studied anti-communism. You're trying to get two birds. However, I would also like to address this issue, because the SYRIZA Members asked us 'good, you do not want, do you not care about democratic participation in the labour movement'? Can I tell you something? Parliament normally has no reason to determine how the labour union movement will move. A parliament, if it wants, all it needs to do is what restrictions it will put into arbitraryness and the extortion of the labour force. He has no reason to say the terms of the strike. It's independent, like, the movement and self-evident and autonomous, as you say? I would like to bring some examples because, despite the fact that SYRIZA was a small force in the trade union movement, it was not great - the majority were PASK and IASE, as we know in the public and private sectors, especially in the public sector - yet the coalition and SYRIZA have serious responsibilities for critical and degenerative phenomena that we have in the trade union movement especially since the 1990s and 2000s. It's not our first time. We've written them a hundred thousand times in "Risospasti". He is responsible precisely because of his left image and identity. I shall therefore give you an example of democracy in the trade union movement, Mr Ahtsoglou. In particular, in the field of civil servants and the ECHO, where it is safe, there is no risk of dismissal, do you know how easily they were leading the start of strikes, such as, for example, in the field of teachers, with lasting strikes and how many times we had been slandered that we were calling for an escalation of single-day, two-day and peaking? Do you know what the coalition party did then? It's absolute all the time. This was done together with PASKE and usually went in return with PASKE. You know what they did? They said Monday - Wednesday you will strike on the seasonal strikes and Tuesday - Thursday you and, if you can't strike, come at noon to do the happyings outside GSEE and where the ADEDY was and the Syntagma Square. Such strikes! On the contrary, we call on the workers to choose the strike consciously, even if they have a risk of dismissal in the private sector and to be frightened, to see the strike as a form of struggle in uncompromising contrast not only with the individual employer, but also with the capitalist employer, the state, etc. Let labour solidarity be made redundant. Of course, it has cost and sacrifices, but on the other hand, we take into account the fact that we also have to understand their fears. How many times have you, the trade unionists - the large majority, I am not saying for 100%, have there also been trade unionists of the SYRIZA, especially the coalition, who acted properly - outside the strike committees from three o'clock? In order for a strike to succeed in a factory, there had to be strike committees. The workers were calling - and now they are - and said: "To strike, make strike chains from the outside, to justify that I cannot go any closer." Yeah, they were scared, and we weren't looking at them from high. But you were coming freshly, porcupined at 11 o'clock at central gatherings to make the happys or throw a yogurt right now and then, to show the size of the anti-government struggle. So don't say if the JRC wants democratic participation. The JRC wants the class consciousness of the working class. If there is no such class consciousness, especially uploaded today, then there is no way you can have a trade union movement, even with the best law in Parliament. You have also offered too much to dismantle consciences. The agricultural mobilisations, who called them "revolutionary gymnastics" against the JRC? The coalition called it that. Read the announcements. When we revealed to workers on the policy of grants - we are not talking about family allowances or heavy and unhealthy, but about some fake on-calls and things - that these must be increases in wages and not such allowances, which were both a takeover and integration factor, and on the way they would be used against workers, you told us that we do not want workers to receive allowances, but we want to be hungry, because we are in favour of the revolution. When, for example, teachers get a library allowance, we were talking about increases in teachers, because it is a very complex and painful job, or about loan libraries in schools. You said "father, get a library allowance, to meet his living needs". Go check whether he was buying books or not. When, in fact, his child had a problem, he might not have bought books and put it in order to complete his income. So don't talk at the house of the hanged man about rope. If some are interested in raising the political conscience of the working class and its organization - and this is not done either by wishing or by law - it is the Communist Party of Greece. You - to finish - want a labour-office movement not broken, but active, to pass on the new modernisations needed. You want with modern means to manipulate the workers. I'm going to tell you one last thing and that's what I'm going to do. For years I have been attending the talks of George Papandreou and Kostas Karamanlis. They were honest when they said they wanted to abolish some party mechanisms, because they understood that party mechanisms do not solve the problem, because party mechanisms at the bottom can be transferred from one party to another, as was the case with the PASOK mechanisms that went through New Democracy. Now you want people embedded in the system, not embedded in party mechanisms. It's not easy to get out of this, because this change is not easy. That is why you have an example of Europe. Now you want the "yops", if necessary the "bugs", which will be connected to the system, the parties will change, and they will be in the system. This modernisation is being promoted by the SYRIZA Government. Don't accuse her of wanting only party mechanisms. He's got one of those. In fact, with these modernizations in the public sector, we also have an e-mail in the name of evaluation. We'll have the new file now with the rating cards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Hatzidakis, Vice-President of the New Democracy, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, opening the ferry for the auctions, you are actually driving not only to the tragic consequences of the loss of residence for thousands of citizens, but also to the rapid devaluation of the value of property, which we have warned will have tragic consequences for the banks themselves. "All living in this place are now turned into candidate homeless." You're looking at me a little strange. Who says that? Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. When did he say it? He said it on December 21, 2013, when n.4224 passed with the Samara government and with me, Minister of Development, who protected the first residence for about 90% of the debtors at that time. Today what do we see? After you have taken this protection, on your behalf, from 90% to 60%, you said so when Stathakis passed here, after giving not only the red, but also the green loans to the funds, now proceed only by electronic auctions, because, as the explanatory memorandum says in the bill you will vote on Monday, electronic auctions contribute to more efficient liquidity and because, as the explanatory statement says, forced execution is necessary in every legal order. Question one. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are auctions bad, as was the case in 2013, or are we good today, which we have and are modernised and done electronically? I would really like one of you to answer me, because both of you cannot apply. Let's go to the second question. Strikes: I will not stand by Mr. Tsipras' respective statements in June 2014, when we thought of bringing a similar arrangement to yours - not exactly the same - and reacted to the Samara government. At that time Mr Tsipras said: 'The right to strike, which was conquered after hard struggles'. I come to that particular arrangement. Because we have two governments on one's packaging. What do I mean? We have the statement made by the Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, on 5 December at ERT - I have the sound extract, but she did it a little earlier here - which says: 'It does not reduce the right to strike with this regulation'. We also have the statement by the other Minister of the same government, the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, who says exactly the opposite. It says that this provision is an obstacle to strikes. So the question is this. On Monday evening, I am sure that all of you will vote for this arrangement, because Mrs Ahtsioglu is right and the strike is not shrinking, or because Mr Tsakalotos is right and you are in the way of strikes? As there will be many government speakers next, and MPs and ministers, I think that it is not too much for me to ask for a clear position on this matter. I'm on my way. Third question. We've got a lot of provisions for the superstition. I will not go into the delusional period. Passed by, temporarily. I come to the post-confidential period. I come in September 2015, after the Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, at the Prime Minister's interview at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Mr. Tsipras invokes four reasons after the memorandum to vote for SYRIZA rather than for New Democracy. One of the four reasons is the following. He says Mr. Tsipras: "We, after this negotiation, managed from the twenty-two for sale assets of the Greek State, which was in the previous timetable of the GOI, to have only nine." Now we're going to today's bill. I see that the companies of OSCE are transferred to their subsidiaries, OSCE and STASY, OASKA, ELTA, ELTATH, HYDAP, PPC, International Airport of Athens, Hellenic Airways, ETVA BIP, Anonymous Company of Corinth Canal, Organization of Central Markets and Fisheries, Central Market of Thessaloniki, HELEXPO, Sales of Taxable Species, the entire public property. They are nine assets in your arithmetics, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. All of what the bill includes is nine assets? If it is, we should all go back to elementary school and learn arithmetic. I'm going further. Fourth question, which has not been raised and I would like travellers to hear it. On the occasion of the noise that had been made last autumn with Uber and Beat - we stand out these two, but, in any case, there was no noise on this issue - Mr Spirtz had made a statement in an interview with the radio station "STO COKINO", on the radio of SYRIZA. What did he say? He said: "It is not possible without taxi permits to do urban transport, when they are essentially integrated into the tourist product of car hirers" and other things, in the same spirit. Why would he say that? Because it was planned, under our arrangement, for a car to be rented with a driver for six hours. And he motivated that he would bring in a setup to raise that limit. Do you know what Article 219a is doing today, when you are voting on Monday night? In the six hours that a number of unacceptable to Mr. Spirtzi seemed, do you know how many he's doing? Three hours. He's heading in the exact opposite direction. Question, where am I? Is he the same person? Is the man speaking in Red and saying he was annoyed by six and finally brings a regulation that lowers the limit to three? Precise in the pie and cheap in the flour? Is that a serious policy? Please tell me, ladies and gentlemen, to your families, do not tell me what this is about. And how far will it go? And I have another last crop on my cell phone, they sent it to me from my office a while ago. You're bringing in casino arrangements. I will tell you what the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, said in 2011, on the basis of a draft law on electronic gambling from the then PASOK government. We voted against it, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Tsipras said: 'They will turn', then PASOK, 'the country into an endless casino, on the pretext that there will be some tax revenue, while the only revenue that will actually be increased will be the well-known, unknown big businessmen who want to win from gambling.' So, what are you doing today? If you have forgotten, I would remind you: You create four extra casinos. And in Article 378, paragraph 26, you give players, which was forbidden until now, to be able to borrow from casinos to play more money.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u162	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u163	When were you right? In 2011, where were you against the law and thought that Greece was becoming a casino country, or now, where are you bringing in four more casinos? And I end up with my fundamental questions: ladies and gentlemen, I always try to be restrained. I referred to specific questions. Answer them if there are answers. Give the answers, I'd be happy to hear them. But if I, on the basis of which I am presenting here today, ask you whether this government has, or has not, been sacrosanct or am I exaggerating, as an old Greek film said? If I tell you that the lie has become second nature of this government, am I correcting or exaggerating? If I say that this government does not ultimately have any moral barrier, am I correcting or overreacting? Ladies and gentlemen, you have not only said great lies, the opposite of what you are saying today, before the 2015 elections. You say exactly the opposite even to what you were saying a few months ago and you are capable of saying exactly the opposite to what you are saying today. So, because there has been a talk of the notorious 'ethical advantage', I would like to say that a government that has this delinquency, this opportunism, this amoralism, in fact, is the same moral disadvantage to the place. It's the same moral handicap for public life. It's the same moral handicap about the country's course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u164	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u165	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just because things are now clear, this government is characterized by three things: a championship of lies, the poorer and an incredible cynicism. The world has reached its conclusions, your voters have taken their conclusions and very soon, as soon as you do, as many votes as you win here, at the end very soon you will be in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, too. The Minister of Culture, Mr. Connordou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, three articles are included in the multi-legislative draft, with very important and innovative arrangements for archaeological works, which streamline and simplify the procedures for the execution of archaeological works, by means of codifying relevant provisions or other equivalent actions. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] A joint working group was set up in addition to the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the Ministries of Economy and Development, Infrastructure and Transport. The Group's findings include proposals for which legislative safeguards are needed, which is being attempted through this draft law. First of all, these provisions are designed to simplify the speeding up of deprivation procedures, where necessary to carry out a project, with the possibility of entrusting the assessment of the compensation in question and with independent certified valuers of Law 4152/2013. In this way, there will be a choice between the current fairly time-consuming procedure, i.e. an estimate by a committee and the awarding to an assessor, which will speed up the flow of procedures, as it will increase the existing options. Secondly, it is particularly important. A Register of Personal Archaeological Works is hereby established, under a contract of private law of a fixed duration, engaged in archaeological works carried out by the Ministry of Culture and Sports services using the self-secretory method, including all kinds of archaeological works carried out in the context of third-party works. The register will be permanently open for all those who have the qualifications required and will ensure unrestricted access to the work of all stakeholders, on the basis of the principles of transparency, equal treatment, objectivity and impartiality. It is precisely to support the operation of the register, based on the above principles, and the recruitment process through it, that an electronic database will be established. A decision by the Minister of Culture and Sport, issued within three months of the entry into force of the law, defines the specialities, branches and categories of training of members, the formal and substantive qualifications required and their mobilisation, the relevant elements, the responsibility for training, keeping and updating the service, the procedure for registering and updating the relevant data, the procedure for selecting staff using the registry, including a procedure for submitting objections, the technical details of the operation of the electronic database and the related online application that regulates any other relevant issue. With effect from 1 January 2020, recruitment of staff under a fixed-term private contract, engaged in archaeological works carried out by the Ministry of Culture and Sport will be conducted exclusively through the registry. At the end of this process, it is estimated that the time needed to recruit staff in archaeological projects will be significantly reduced, resulting in accelerating implementation procedures and arrangements. This intervention also strengthens transparency, the objectivity of recruitment procedures and ensures equal treatment of all candidates in works by the Ministry of Culture and Sport from all its services across Greece. I would like to stress here, in order to avoid misinterpretation, that the decision to come out will respect the institutional framework already in force for recruitment to the Ministry of Culture and Sport. That doesn't change, and I stress it. Only the registration process will apply from 1-1-2020. Finally, the provisions under discussion attempt to harmonise the initial archaeological research into the sequence of studies needed to identify the environmental impact of a project. This is very important because this provision is estimated to strengthen the attempt to rationalise the project design process, since the critical points of archaeological interest will be identified from the outset and the findings of the initial research will be taken into account from the early stages of the project study. Therefore, this reduces the risk of unforeseen situations in the implementation phase, which will make a decisive contribution to the effective implementation of the projects, to avoid cases where these budgets are increased and to further speed up the implementation rate. Apart from these three articles, an additional article that we propose refers to the supervisory board of the EGTC. The independent entities referred to in Article 50 of Law No 2121/1993, where only the ‘COP’ is to date, provide for the existence of a supervisory board, which undertakes to monitor the management of the company's rights of authors and decides on a number of issues. The supervisory board shall normally be elected by the general meeting of the members of the entity referred to in Article 50 of Law 2121/1993. However, especially for the first Supervisory Board of the ‘EPC’, due to the continuous developments and the need for an immediate supervisory board, the Law on Copyright was provided for by Law 4481 which was recently adopted, after consultation and requesting the authors, the first Supervisory Board to be appointed by the Minister of Culture and this was to be designated only by natural persons, members of the ‘ESC’. This first supervisory board was appointed by me at the beginning of August with a six-month term. In the process, however, due to the constant revelations about the state of the "GDP", especially after the appointment of the Commissioner, the anguish of all members on the course of the "GSP", the continuous search for a solution to ensure copyright, the authors themselves, as represented by their associations, asked the Ministry to join the Supervisory Board and the music publishers, who can also make a decisive contribution to the functioning of the Supervisory Board. In our amendment, therefore, the restriction is abolished that members of the first supervisory board should only be created by members of the entity. Moreover, on this first supervisory board, the composition of which will be amended, publishers will also participate, as is provided for by the Regular Supervisory Board. Finally, the institutional framework for the operation of cultural education schools has initially been studied by the European Commission, in relation to whether it is in line with the Community Directive 2006/123 on services in the internal market and by the institutions as to whether it is in line with Law 3919/2011, the principle of professional freedom, the abolition of unjustified restrictions on access to and exercise of professions and other provisions, as well as with the country's other Memorandum Responsibilities. The regulation concerns the abolition of the special qualifications laid down in the legislation in force for the founder or representative of the higher schools of artistic education, dramatic art, dance, cinema and amateur dance schools. The proposed provision abolishes the obligation of the founder or legal representative for all categories of higher education to be able to teach a major lesson and, respectively, to have the necessary qualifications, i.e. a diploma. In addition, for amateur dance schools to have a degree in recognized professional dance schools of the national or recognised senior or senior foreign dance school, an unsuitable teaching experience in a State-recognised dance school or a 15-year senior artistic career. We stress that the above provisions are still in force on the required qualifications of the curriculum and teaching staff. The proposed provision will result in the alignment of the institutional framework for the operation of cultural education schools with Opinion 37/2017 of the Competition Committee and with the provisions of Law 3919/2011, which provide for the principle of professional freedom, the abolition of unjustified restrictions on access to and the exercise of professions and is a Memorandumary obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three educational sessions from the 4th Patras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Circus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, with the debate and the vote of the multi-fibre draft with the prerequisites, we are entering the final straight ahead for the completion of the third evaluation. It is another step that, together with the approval of Eurogroup of 22 January, will pave the way for us to resolutely lead to the completion of the programme in August 2018, which will mark the end of the memorandum period, the lifting of the Memorandum Committee. It is obvious and given that, both our and the government, constant vigilance and commitment to clear objectives will be achieved in order to create positive conditions and conditions for the exit from the Memorandum with the least possible losses and with society upright. It is obvious, therefore, that the multi-project we are debating today is one of the last difficult phases, easier than the previous ones, which we have to go through to get the country to this new era. And all this, of course, in a better economic environment for the country, since economic indicators are positive, unemployment is falling steadily, optimism gradually returns, of course, without celebrating. There are people who make it hard, but more and more of our fellow citizens are experiencing this change. The multiplier project includes issues that should have been regulated and dealt with decades before the crisis, such as issues relating to the Land register, the mortgages, quarries, mines, censorship and accelerated licensing and business procedures, the integrated and coherent approach of market surveillance issues and state control mechanisms, the assessment of medicinal products with scientific criteria and the way in which they are determined, the treatment of child poverty, support for small and medium-sized bakers, the review of the expropriation procedure in public works and other issues, which could be the subject of legislation outside the Asphysical Memorandum Framework. It has been decades since the resolution of the parties who have been ruling the place for decades, since they have only been interested in the maintenance of their customer relations and the reproduction of their power, the results of which the Greek people have known very well. I'm going to stand on three issues of the plan. The first concerns the question of the institution of mediation, namely the way in which disputes are resolved out of court. The institution of mediation is already in place in more and more countries of Europe and can, subject to conditions, lead to the dismantling of courts by cases which can be resolved outside the judiciary and in consultation between citizens. It concerns a number of specific categories of cases, which can be resolved in a short time, so that the parties do not arrive after many years before the courts. And it is wrong - and the Minister has said - that the view expressed that the Ombudsman is transformed into a quasi-judicial judge, since he does not issue a judicial decision, does not dissipate citizens' differences, does not form a judicial conviction. What he has to do is substantially reconcile a dispute so that the parties can reach an agreement without, of course, committing the parties to accept it by ending up in the court. There is therefore no question of privatization, as has been said, of justice. In fact, after taking into account the views of the stakeholders, and in particular the delegation of the Plenary Assembly of the Presidents of the country's Bar Associations, the Government has made a number of amendments, such as the reduction of the Ombudsman's remuneration, so that the procedure is appropriate to all citizens, the removal of the institution's compulsoryity in labour disputes and other additional amendments, which contribute to the improvement of the law for the benefit of the citizen. The second issue, to which I should like to refer, is the provisions relating to the rationalisation of the register. This is essentially a reform that creates a uniform way of organising the services provided for the registration and disclosure of rights throughout the territory by applying uniform rules and ensuring the provision of high quality services. A new single body called the "Greek Register", as applicable in all European countries, is set up. Legal control and safeguarding the rights of citizens is - and this is the important - the exercise of public power and, therefore, can only be entrusted to a State-owned body. Ownership and associated management is self-evident that it must belong exclusively to the State. The existing real estate offices and mortgage offices will therefore be incorporated into the new organisation, so that there will be better coordination, leading to the realisation of the entire territory by 2020. The radical reorganisation of these structures will fully ensure the principle of publicity and ensure the security of trade. In addition, the completion of the country's realisation is a priority of the government which, together with the suspension of forest maps, is a central tool for development. The third issue, to which I should like to refer, concerns the trade union law and issues relating to the strike, such as the way in which it is proclaimed. The truth is that in the course of the negotiations too many demands have been made by the institutions on this matter, requirements which have been strongly rejected by the Greek Government and which have not been accepted. What was finally agreed is the least possible retreat. It was clearly pointed out that the interventions promoted do not concern the strike as a whole, they do not reduce the right of workers to it. Obviously, it's a choice we wouldn't make outside the Memorandum. The only change, however, relates to the rule of quorum in deciding on a strike from primary business unions, and in no case to primary associations from a wider region or from a part of Greece, as well as secondary and tertiary organizations. However, those who today forget that in the same negotiation the government has achieved a number of positive results for the benefit of workers and for the strengthening of their negotiating capacity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. They forget that the government prevented the lockout demanded by the International Monetary Fund, by the New Democracy and by the great business interests which impose their line on today's Civic Opposition. They forget the prioritisation of workers' payments to banks in bankruptcy, a decision that comes to overthrow the same Memorandum of Understanding imposed by the governments of the New Republic and PASOK together with the lenders. Of course, they forget the reintroduction of the collective negotiations achieved by the government, despite the strong reactions of creditors and BSE. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, even under conditions of budgetary sighness and difficulties, the government reflects the signal of social justice and redistribution of resources and goes on to reforms and structural changes that the country needs, without the mistakes, pathogens and the customer perception of the past. The end of the memorandum is the means for us to be able to implement our own policy without the drowning comitology. In 2018, the country will change a page and when we arrive at the end of the four-year period, the people will know who got it out of the adventure of the memorials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Iliopoulos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. They've become more memorial than the sieges and they're trying to support things that in other cases they'd be underneath or outside and screaming. Three years ago - this period was, in January 2015 - we warned our Greek fellow citizens on all tons, we were shouting at what we had and said: "Don't believe them, don't vote them to abolish the HISA. Not only will you not be abolished by HPAI, but will follow the same and worse policy than the previous ones." That's what we said where we could say it. Eventually, however, you have overcome every morbid imagination. Apart from being one of the most "faithful dogs" of loan sharks, you have given another mark to your governance, not the most progressive one you warned us that your administration would have, but the most betrayal one. Today's interview: "The Prime Minister", he says, "Alexis Tsipras and, of course, Euclidis Tsakalots have completely changed the relationship with the European partners. Almost everything is easier than that. It is a completely different situation." And we're signing it with hands and feet what Dieselbloom says. You're the best loan shark partners, and I think you over there in the ministerial benches will feel very happy about what he says about you. Do what you can to thank them. Some SYRIZA Members have today said that the ideas of Fire are responsible - he says - for the abolition of allowances, because the third parties - he says - do not vote on you. And well they do, of course, and you are not voted on by the third parties and the tenants, because you are punishing them on a daily basis with the policies you are implementing. Of course, you have sat down, because you are a little more wicked, and you have numerically taken out what most families are - the ones with one or two children - take out the numbers, whenever you say we're going to give some crumbs, because they're the ones that you give. This is not a subsidy to solve the problem of fertility in our home country. As Fotio has admitted today, there is the conclusion - it says - and, of course, sits in drawers and nobody has done anything since 1993. And imagine that this finding has existed since 1993, and today the problem has more than doubled. The balance of deaths and births is in favour of deaths by thirty - five thousand a year. So put it that all those who die are Greek, but most of the births concern foreigners, who either come pregnant women and get disembarked to the Greek islands and are giving birth to Greece or are illegal immigrants who have invaded our country in recent years and have been born very easily in order to get the benefits and the others here. So, in order to say a little bit of evidence and to understand it by the friends who are listening to us today on television, we are mathematically losing a large city from Greeks and "we're winning" an even bigger city with illegal immigrants. This is the gracious future of Greece. The Greeks, who have studied them with the money of the Greek people, send them abroad, may find a better future, and we replace these worthy Greeks, the blossom of the Greek youth, with illegal immigrants. Inheritance is a deadly danger to our country and you must take it very seriously. The benefits must be increased immediately for children and, of course, all illegal immigrants must be excluded from these benefits. These benefits should go exclusively to Greeks. We have also found something else here, of course, a work that Nikos Pappas, your Minister, had done in his PhD in Glasgow. I will read only the title, which is sufficient to understand your ideas: "Migrants will save Greece from demographic ageing," Nikos Pappas said. You do things that other governments would not really go through their minds to do. Electronic auctions from 21 February will be made exclusively through the electronic platform. You're making fun of the world. You were talking about first residence. You were cut by the loan sharks, and after the baptism of the "laiki residence", which is a nonexistent term. Nowhere, not in economics, there is no such term. It's just the propaganda of the Left. Of course, there is at no point the protection of neither the first of the people's nor any residence. Precisely, real estate transfers. They're going directly to the supreme fourteenth ECHO. If this is not an assignment of national sovereignty, how can it be baptized? Not that you're interested in dividing national sovereignty, I'm just saying it. This sale has the remaining 34% of PPC, ELTA, HYDAP, HYDAP, water, transportation, etc. There is, of course, a provision for exemption from the six foreign technocrats of the SEAD from criminal and civil responsibilities. They will be able to sell everything without these people having any responsibility. New casino licenses are being granted. Bravo! This is the development that you will bring to Greece: new casinos, to throw people into gambling. Of course, with your ideas, you may want to throw him into drugs too, so he does not understand what you are voting for. Let's go to Macedonian, a subject that really burns the Greeks today. Macedonia is not just Greek. Macedonia is a body and soul of Greece. When Paul Melas left his villa in Kifisia, to go to fight for the freedom of the country, he said: "You should know that if we run to save Macedonia, Macedonia will save us." And after a while he left his last breath fighting for that freedom. For the freedom of Macedonia, hundreds of thousands of Greeks have shed their blood all these thousands of years, and you do not have the slightest right to sell it with a signature. Forget it! Whatever you do, the story will erase it. Macedonia is one, Macedonia is Greek! You have no right to negotiate that name, neither in complex nor in any other name. There is a patriotic, patriotic movement, which has risen from the end, not only in Greece, but throughout the world. People who see this sale and of course will resist until the last minute. They've figured out how unwilling you are. Even the Albanian Foreign Minister a few days before his meeting with Kotzia - and whoever meets with Kotzia actually asks for something - raises the issue of Chamuras. A few days before he met, he said "I will raise the issue of Tsamouria". And we have another one, who is here, in the Greek Parliament - Hussein Zabeck, called - who represents the Greek MP, but rather his conscience is Turkish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u172	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u173	I'll be done in a minute. I'd like to submit a photo to the Minutes. What Greeks would have posed with so great joy next to the half-help and the slaughterer of Hellenism, Kemal? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, he's SYRIZA's MP, Zabeck. So after Erdogan's "father" came here, he breaks up. He tweeted yesterday. He posted a photo of the Greek Parliament and said about the legal regulation of the "Turkish minority". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There should have been a party leader - his own party - to pull his ear and say to him: "Listen, here is Greece. Mongolé, if you want to represent Turks, you're going back to Turkey. Here in Greece there is no Turkish minority. Do you hear me? If you want, you'll go back to Turkey. There is only a Muslim minority here.’ Of course, such a SYRIZA chief doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Eliopulus, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u175	I'm done. As long as there is the Golden Dawn, forget about the sale of Thrace. Forget Macedonia's sale. Forget the sale of every inch of Greek land. Every millimetre of Greek land is watered with Greek blood and anyone who is being smuggled, inside and outside Greece, to know that he will bleed again to get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nineteen American students and three educational attendants from the "McDaniel College". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Sifakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, despite the appalling attack of the financial establishment, the media, which, after twenty-eight years of conflict now, finally put the hand in the pocket of the big-workers, who, for the first time, seem not to be putting their fingers on the governments, their representatives here, on the 'left side', on the depreciating the first left-wing government in the country and in Europe, despite destruction, dangers, election - if we listened to them in recent years, we would have done twenty-fold elections - which is the only truth, the irreparable reality is that after seven years of suffering of society from the Memorandums, after seven years of recession - except in the end of 2017, we have a positive rate of development, which is still in 2018 as well as in 2018. Unemployment fell to 20%, while we received it to 27%. The rate of investment, exports and industrial activity has improved. He shared a social dividend from over-performance of the economy. The world of course continues to afflict itself. We all know that. But all I said is true and will appear in the life and pocket of society in the next few months. The net exit from the memoranda and the hard commission at the end of August of this year now seems to be an absolutely serious and realistic prospect, which is internationally accepted as such. The plan that we will be voting on Monday completes the closure of the third assessment and paves the way for a substantial debate on the public debt and on the net exit. In the few minutes I have, I shall refer to the arrangements proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Energy for the Land register, for the Quarry Law and for the Energy Exchange, three important areas for modernisation, the seriousness of the country with regard to its citizens and its credibility. Since 1910, the state has recognised the need to draw up a national Stock Exchange as an irreplaceable development tool. For a century he has not been able to implement it. They didn't have the political will, they preferred the clientele relationships, they wouldn't break them with anyone, and they let the pathogens expand to find someone brave in the future to heal them. The draft law establishes a public and self-financed entity under the name "Greek Stock Exchange" as a legal entity governed by public law under the supervision of the Ministry, which integrates the activities of "ECSC S.A." and the wages and unpaid mortgages. The purpose of the establishment of the new entity is to rationalise and uniformly organise services for the registration and public disclosure of citizens' rights on their real estate, as well as public ownership. This body which must be of a public nature by the nature of its work, ensures the high supervision and ownership of the rights of the public. It is a self-financed entity from the fixed and proportionate fees that traders will pay with it as well as from the exploitation of the records it maintains. He is a universal successor to “ECSC S.A.” and absorbs the thirty-three and thirty-three-three-three-and-three unpaid mortgages that are phased out within the next twenty-four months, giving this transitional period that is useful even to correct any issues arising from the first application of the law. It will be organized at central and regional level by establishing seventeen real estate offices throughout the country and in the regions and seventy-five branches in each prefecture capital and possibly in the second town in regional units that have over one major centre. It still fully guarantees the workers. As far as energy is concerned, this draft law establishes an Energy Exchange, with a branch separator from the electricity market operator, from the LAG, in order to operate the already existing energy markets and to open up others. With the operation of the Energy Exchange and the interconnection of European markets, the conditions for healthy competition will be created which will be able to reduce energy costs and increase security of energy supply. This will avoid the precise solutions to cover peak loads and will also address the meditation of production from renewable energy sources in relation to the network. Our country will be associated, on the first day of the market, with Italy and gradually with Bulgaria, but also with the other neighbouring countries of the interconnected system, depending on the extent of their readiness. The establishment of the Energy Exchange will contribute to the rationalisation of the wholesale market, so that it can actually restore distortions created by the various mechanisms that have actually created non-market conditions. It will also help industry by reducing energy costs. It will operate the pre-market of energy, the daily energy market, the market of divergences and its liquidation, the gas market and environmental markets. It is potentially planned to operate a future market in the future. In order to be able to meet its objective, it is interconnected with the Athens Exchange which can provide know-how and potential. The central position of the Energy Regulatory Authority is still determined in this process. As regards the quarantine law, the new quarantine law is being introduced for the first time and the complex and fragmented latitude legislation of the last thirty, forty years, which was a consistent request over the period of time of all those involved with the mining industry is updated. I remember, personally, as a engineer - engineer, at the beginning of my professional activity with studies on various activities, that when we took in forms the codification of legislation, quarries and amendments to legislation, we devoted whole shelves, we did not get to us and we were looking to buy more. The institutional framework for the exploration and exploitation of quarries and of mining activity in general is being modernised. The uniform treatment of the procedures and the time for renting and granting of the approvals of quarries is rationalised, setting a maximum period for the right of exploitation for all quartz materials in order to achieve the economic viability of the quarries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Transparency is being introduced with regulation. The rental of public or municipal land is through auctions and not as they are today many times with opaque and hidden awards and agreements. The authorisation procedure shall be simplified by removing the licence, the licence of establishment, and the authorisation of establishment is now made by means of a notification. Reform the procedure for the identification of inert material holding areas. The restoration of the environment, as well as safety and supervisory control, are made more stringent. In conclusion, the provisions proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Energy are positive provisions for modernisation and transparency and we invite you to vote in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u178	Mr Baxvanakis, State Secretary for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that the dismay of the Opposition, especially of the New Democracy and PASOK, is evident from the course followed by the completion of the third assessment. Their embarrassment is evident during the debate and in the committees, but today it is apparent from the fact that from a large bill of four hundred articles all the speeches are focused, drawing from the hair to disagree with three or at most four articles. Cuvets on reforms in the field of the environment, energy, health and public administration. Cuvet for all this and the dissent in three - four articles for which there have been convincing answers repeatedly, but in the ears of naturally unhearing. So what's left? That they cannot tolerate that this government can negotiate effectively and the result of this negotiation is before you and that is what we will vote on Monday night. It is also clear that, when there are no irrational requirements on the part of certain institutions, evaluations can be closed on time, without undue delays and it can be demonstrated that any delays in the past were not directed by the Greek side. So what's left of the antipopulation drawers? Risk, of course, not for what is institutionalised, but for what the Anti-Policy is allowed to spread that they will hide, that they will come in the future or that they are elsewhere hidden and that the many people do not see them. This kind of risk in the field of education in the past months has been evident. And what the educational community, our teachers, students and parents didn't hear? What did we hear from the media in the past few months supporting the Opposition? That is imminent - it says - the reintroduction of the punishing individual assessment of teachers, the one that New Democracy had imposed and, with the rise of our Government, that it will be stopped, that it will be increased - it says - the teaching hours of teachers, that the number of students will be increased by class. This danger for four whole months from summer until today gave and took from the educational websites and within public education schools. What do you have before you today? Nothing. Are we reinstated the punishing individual evaluation of teachers? We don't have one. Do we have an increase in teachers' teaching hours? We don't have one. Do we have an increase in the number of pupils per department in public education schools? Unfortunately for the Opposition, we don't have one. So what do we have as articles in this bill concerning the area of public education? We have two settings. The first relates to the execution by our teachers of the non-educational so-called work, that is to say the work done by our teachers beyond teaching. So what do we do with Article 245? We repeat the provision which has been in existence for thirty-three years since 1985 with Mr von Wogau. 1566. What are we changing? Rather, we do not change, but we cite what these tasks our teachers have been doing for decades in public schools beyond teaching. We report them one by one. It is the preparation of educational materials and laboratory exercises, the correction of works and tests, the registration of students' ratings, the preparation of events and other activities - sports, cultural, etc. - communication with educational support structures - school advisors and other assistants - cooperation between teachers teaching in the same department, in the same class, supervision of school meals, information for parents and guardians, and, of course, the bureaucracy of the school, completion of forms and books which are necessary each time. This is what the bill describes, so there is no change in the status quo as regards the employment of teachers beyond teaching. In Article 246 we are talking about the criteria for merging school units. Because in this area too much ink has been spilled, I would like to inform everyone who does not know and to remind everyone who knows that these procedures are carried out every year in public education. Each year there are foundations, abolitions, merges of school units. It is a fixed procedure that every year is carried out in a certain way. What was not there to date and we are introducing it in Article 246? We record the criteria by which, in our view, this process of mergers between school units is to be carried out and we list them. What are these criteria? It's organicity, mostly for primary school units. It is the existing and also the forecast for the next school years. It is the building of two schools of the same type. There are too many cases, you all know, that two high school, two high school, two primary schools are set up in the same building, just to have two managers. It is also the number of pupils who may need to be transferred to a possible merger. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is of particular importance to note that we are establishing a humane criterion. We say that the movement that a student may need for a distance to go to a school, which may result from a future merger, must not exceed 30 minutes of the hour. We all know that today there are thousands of students in the region of the country who travel far more than thirty minutes to reach their school. So the criterion that we have set today is better than what is currently in place. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the treasure of the dangers of the past few months and of educational issues is a coal. We are sure that the professional riskists will not stop, precisely because some of them have no reason to exist if they do not risk, they have no reason to exist if they do not try to terrorise our teachers and the entire educational community. That is why we are sure that they will continue, discovering, inventing, predicting the millions of sufferings that have been predicting for months and which, unfortunately, are not coming to the fore. But our teachers know. They are well aware of the wind of freedom and democracy that he has inspired in public schools with the rise of this government in power. They are well aware of the fear regime that existed in previous years and which is no longer there in public schools. And they know very well what it expects them if this government is overthrown and back to the political scene the bankrupt political staff of the former ever bicommunism. They know that what awaits them is thousands of redundancies, thousands of available available. And that's not a danger. It is what Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis signed in 2013, placing more than two thousand teachers at the disposal. They know, then, what our teachers are waiting for them if the old bankrupt political scene comes back to the fore, that is to say, if those who went bankrupt the country and destroyed our people. That is why our teachers and all the people will not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u180	We continue with the next speaker. Mr Stavros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary, let us come back to the reality of the bill and tell you that today - and it is not a risk - we are spectators of the same theatrical performance. We are talking for once at suffocating time, with a relatively short time and with the well-established hypocritical, left soul pain, prerequisites for completion of the third assessment. Evaluation that should be completed, according to the update of the memorandum in the summer - which the government refuses to testify to Parliament, on the European Commission website you will see - the end of October 2017. But let us credit, Mr Secretary, to his opportunistic and occult government 'yes' in everything less than the previous assessments. However, we cannot charge her for the evaluation being closed with new measures for 2018, and for the amount of the dose and its use - we will see this - deprives valuable resources of the real economy. And all this is done in the circumstances of a crazing economy, which is agonizing and expanding the gap from the other economies of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion contains a huge number of scorpionic provisions, memorandums and many non-memorandums. A few of them move in the right direction, although they contain ambiguity and are characterized by fragmentation. Most of the provisions, however, firstly confirm the failure of previous legislation, such as the provision which highlights the administrative malfunctions of the supra-statement fund. Others are strengthening the unequal treatment between similar enterprises and distorting competition. You're told by the chambers. Other creations new structures in the public sector, with additional costs inherent weaknesses, obvious contradictions, overlap, distortive approaches, separation of powers. Others are hampering the country. Others open windows of exceptions from the public accounting system and deal with two measures and two stations of existing public personnel. However, they all confirm that all so - called red lines have been imprisoned and the government is now selling seaweed for silk ribbons. However, in order to justify its complete retreat, the Government resorts to the new account - I have heard it from previous colleagues: it claims that the evaluation without a euro, is complete, that the situation in the economy is improved - I have heard it from the Secretary-General - and that the way out of the memorandum is open. Yet again, he does not tell the truth to the citizens. Firstly, citizens are already experiencing new measures for 2018, measures amounting to EUR 1.9 billion, measures such as - among other things - additional reductions in wages, reductions in pensions, abolition of a series of tax exemptions, increased VAT on the islands, reductions in the heating allowance for many times, the housing tax, the higher charges on insurance contributions by professionals and farmers. And follow other measures after 2018, measures that reduce the available income of all citizens, but are more burdensome to the weaker economic strata, making poorer and more poorer. Secondly, I heard it from my fellow Member, after three years have been lost, the economy at macroeconomic level is slowly reaching the level that was in 2014. The improvement you constantly invoke most of the indicators is compared to last year, with the worst point the economy has reached in governance SYRIZA - ANEL. But at a microeconomic level - and here is the essence, that is what the citizens are experiencing - the situation is worse. Citizens are in a much more unfavourable position than they were in 2014. Three numbers condense the painful reality and do not deny: EUR 14.5 billion new austerity measures have been passed. Private tax debts have for the first time exceeded 100 billion euros and seizures have been imposed on one million Greek citizens. And you're saying the situation is better? And mass electronic auctions are before the gates. That's the truth, and that's the reality. And thirdly, full and clear exit from the memoranda - something that would be desirable - is not possible today. This is because the government has voted for new austerity measures after the end of the current programme, it has committed itself to high primary surpluses for many years after 2018, while the implementation of the necessary interventions to regulate the debt, not only has been postponed for after the summer of 2018, but it is estimated that it will also be accompanied by a strict surveillance and surveillance mechanism. And of course, any cash reserves to which you refer how they are created? Using credit resources, with the exact exit on the markets, with the overtaxation of the citizens, with the mandatory "swap" of the cash available to all public entities and with the internal attitude of payments, i.e. at the expense of the real economy. And while that is the reality, the Prime Minister in his friendly tactics relativizes the importance of words, trying to create a climate of optimism for each use. But optimism, which, as in previous cases, is disgusted by life. This was before the first elections in 2015. It's self-righteous. This was during the negotiations in the first half of 2015. This was before the 2015 referendum. This was before the first two evaluations were completed. That's what's gonna happen now. So let the government put aside the verbal acronyms and communication wrappings, because the impact on reality will again be painful. But it is true that people are suffering painfully and will experience more painfully, after the vote on this multi-project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Theocratic has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. What is our homeland, ladies and gentlemen? Don't you think it's SKAI? Do not the newspapers "TA and THE VIMA" in the hands that have fallen or have Paradise and the Panama papers? Or is what we say our country, the average Greek and its daily life, represented by us in SYRIZA and for which we are working both in the negotiations and in the plan our politicians? Because for the multi-project, but it says "SKAI" and systemic media and otherwise it's reality. I brought it to Stepma, too. But it says "SCAI", but it writes the bill. To abolish the protection of the first popular residence currently in existence by Katseli law, I hear from the systemic media, but it says the plan. For auctions of EUR 500 I hear from the systemic media, but the plan says. For the loss of all the rights of borrowers I hear from the systemic media and the opposition, but it says the bill. He doesn't say such things. Of course there are half the truths. It happened to me the other day in a TV panel. He was a fellow lawyer representing borrowers. It says "the first home of one of my clients is coming out in an auction". I say to him, "Why didn't he go into the law of Katseli and answer me "he wants to protect the second house, so he didn't go in." Well, it's not because by the law of Katseli you've got a haircut from the loans. You're protecting a house, secondly, you can't do it. The law says it's clear, we all know it. He doesn't want to come in. So let us make it clear, ladies and gentlemen. And Katseli - Stathakis law also applies to the protection of the first popular residence, which we all know is what it is, which applies to applications submitted up to 31-12-2018 and which may be tried in 2020, 2025 or I don't know when they will be tried. And for merchants, businessmen, for this world that you had never dealt with at all, Law 4469/2017 applies, with the protection of residence for the cases that have been going on and are going on now, because we have the first successful cases. The Code of Conduct also applies to the agreement with banks for non-executive auctions for real estate of up to EUR 300,000. And it is our concern - and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the ANELs and our Government - that this agreement should also be formalised. What is provided for in this bill, which has become so dormant for electronic auctions. It refers to the procedure and not to the substance. It refers to procedural, to how the means of enforcement are carried out, how they are carried out and not to the substance. As we have e - a paradox, an electronic paradox, e - a document from us lawyers - a consistent request from the legal world are electronic documents - so we also have in the procedural procedure - it is now established - the electronic way of conducting and enforced. I'll say a few words about history, because every time we have orchid and destructive. The horizontal protection of the first residence was abolished at the end of 2014 by the government of Samaras - Venizelos. He became a omen on 31-12-2013 with n.4224/2013. The last extension of horizontal protection was given on 31-12-2013 for one year, with the responsible statement at the time we did. But at 31-12-2014 it had been agreed with the lenders and ceased - and at an election time, please! - the horizontal protection of the first residence, the one relating to all, regardless of the conditions, to the Act of Katsel, etc. The law is left, Katseli. If you see the official's public statements at the time of the New Democracy, you seem to have agreed to contain or even abolish the protection of the residence and the Katseli law. However, after the summer of 2015, we maintained the law of Katselis and with the law of Stathakis, we specified it in particular in particular residences, the people's home we say, except Eklis, Psychikos, as Eklidis said. And for these residences, however, Minister, in Ekali, in Psychikos, we had given two months to resort to the Katseli law. It was November and December 2015. Let's not forget. Even they had the right for two months to do so. They also joined the law of Katseli and the debts in tax and insurance funds. It is not of minor importance at all. It is very important, because someone owed 100,000 or 150,000 to the banks and owed so much to the tax office and to the insurance funds. What can they do? I say again that we were interested in voting for the business world, the extrajudicial mechanism. We, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, know that there is a great category of borrowers, which you, New Democracy and PASOK, fooled them with the plating prosperity and led them to over-finance. "Take loans" you told them and then cut them wages, cut them, cut them off pensions, led them to unemployment, and now you say that people have a problem. You bankrupt them. You've made them poor, so your friends can do their tax-free business abroad. We will protect them and we are already protecting them. However, we will not protect the strategic bad-payers, with the super-capital debts, with the luxurious real estate, with the luxurious fats and the "slashed" accounts abroad, the Paradise and the Panama Papers. To understand that the Greek people have charged us with their debts and abroad remain rich. Between us, two of these strategic poor payers are in here: New Democracy and PASOK. And they want to rule again! I would like to say a few words on the register, since I welcome the stay of the real estate office in Ptolemais, which was necessary and the whole legal world in the region was saying so. It is an example of how a one-century project, which the New Democracy and the PASOK have not been able, despite the funds they came, to do so. This is a classic example, as is digital governance. The money came, they shared it with each other, and the work went to the bells. That's the way it happened with the Land register. It's over with us. I am out of the consumer protection provisions that they will be protected against general trading conditions and entrepreneurs. That was a constant problem. I have also dealt with it in my term of office as President of the consumer union. The little traders or whoever had a shop and got a loan from the bank wasn't protected from the general trading conditions from the bank, because, he says, you're a dealer too. Well, it's not the same businessman who owns a shop with the bank! Now this injustice is restored. I would like to say very briefly that we have limited it. We're clear. There was a commitment and a pressure from the lenders, which we limited as little as possible. Who doesn't understand what he doesn't understand? It's limited as long as it could. The New Democracy is clearly saying that there should not be, in fact, a ban on the right to strike. To vote more than 100%, if possible, the New Democracy will say. But with the pressure we've had, it's only limited to local operational primary unions. For example, I have searched and found that the Kosani prefecture has not been declared such a strike. It's one of the workplaces, from federations or regional unions, which is rare too. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that with this bill we are taking a step before leaving the memorandum. From the memorials that we all know that PASOK and New Democracy and because of them and by their choice they have put us in, we will be brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL government and Alexis Tsipras. But the memorials don't end. There will be another large memorandum. This will be put by the Greek people in the New Democracy and PASOK and will give them the vote with the dropping point, as the instalments, money, creditors. A few - few will give votes and impose tough measures, cuts and sacrifices on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u184	Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. We also want to welcome the thousands of private and public workers throughout Greece who, defying fear and extortion today, took part in the strike, claiming the right to strike, also claiming other demands such as EUR 751 minimum wage, reinstatement of collective agreements, signature of contracts with increases and protection of first residence. We call again on the workers to give the fighter present at the rally Monday. Ladies and gentlemen, you have left no request for the capital that you have not satisfied. There's no conquest you didn't swept through. You want the team redundancies? The retreat? The further reduction in wages and pensions? The generalized elastic forms of work? The unbelievable taxi? The cuts in health, education, welfare? The quarantine of any allowances, even of the unhealthy ones, brought to this bill today? The generalisation of privatizations? All of this is the 'roadmap' for the capitalist recovery, followed by the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, and now you, together with the European Union, are the International Monetary Fund and the representatives of business groups. You are making the people bankrupt and giving - as the workers are saying - the dividend today and tomorrow you are taking the apartment, the generalization of electronic auctions and public debts. In serving this common strategy you scan what you think is an obstacle. Obstacles are any work, insurance, social conquest. This policy is accompanied by a reduction in freedoms, with suppression of the struggles. You reached the point of arresting a strike worker, claiming the eighteen-month-olds in "MARKET-IN" in Yanna in front of her three children. It's a disgrace! The Minister for Labour refuses to come to answer our question to the House about the attitude of the Government and the employer, as well as about the dismissal of a worker elected to SABOIDAKIS in Crete. You therefore support this 'roadmap'. What did the Prime Minister say? All these conquests, labor, insurance and social life, they were described as pathogens of the past, rights that hinder capitalist recovery and development. 'Previous situation, which must not be restored' is characterised by BSE. Thus, the reintroduction of the minimum wage to EUR 751 and the collective labour contracts promised by the SYRIZA - ANEL government has now changed. According to the Minister of Labour, it will continue to set the minimum wage by decision of the Government, with a promise of an increase in this minimum wage of EUR 586 or EUR 510 for young people when we get out of the programme. It also promises to reintroduce collective bargaining rather than collective agreements and that, of course, when business groups allow it after the third memorandum. So these conditions of the gala, this barbarity, government and parties of capital seek to stabilise it, because it is also a condition for the eternal increased profitability of business groups. That is why the restriction of trade union freedoms, the non-protection of those who are leading and organizing the struggle of workers, of the trade unions. That is why, and without shame, you have brought - apart from the enlargement, as we have said, electronic auctions - the main prerequisite for the third assessment required by the chapter, which, as the previous speaker said, was your commitment, namely the restriction and, in effect, the abolition of the right to strike. The Government therefore, in addition to Article 211 of the Multilateral Plan, provides for more than double the percentage of participation of the members of a meeting for a strike decision. Who's this helping? Workers, the development of their matches or employers? The aim is obvious: to make it difficult, to disarm the working class and its movement, to prevent the claiming of better pay and work conditions. The strikes are already being persecuted. Today, with this framework, 95% of the strikes decided have been declared illegal by the courts. Now, with this regulation by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, we will talk about 99% to 100% that strikes will be unlawfully proclaimed, placing greater obstacles to the working-class movement. Do you really know that any employer - and I told you in committee - who does not plan decisive intervention at home, who does not seek the manipulation of his members, who does not organise action against any racing claim of their rights, who does not defend their working jungle and its profitability? If you know, tell us. Are the healthy businessmen? Are they them? So the argument by the government that the arrangement helps to involve and democratically take decisions, is also put forward by the BSE Government, which has applauded the government for the regulation you have brought. It was considered positive by their representative in the committee. The New Democracy bids and itself calls for the business groups to be resolutely abolished the right to strike. New Democracy gives you a lot of help. But you, here, are now more easily going through that logic to the workers that you are the least evil. "There is what New Democracy is coming to do," you say to the workers and the people. "We are the least evil. We've managed not what the New Democracy says. It's worse than that, but it's better than what the New Democracy says." So you are both the worst for the workers, which is why we both have to send you where we need to. The government, therefore, offers another tool to capital to shape the conditions for stabilising all the overthrows. It wants a cemetery silence in the workplace to ensure, as we have said, an enduring recovery of the profits of the same capital. The same thing, however, also attempted in the past other parties of capital, and the New Democracy with Laskaris, Arsenis with Article 4. Brutsis had the bill ready in the drawer, now Mrs Ahtsioglu has changed it somehow. But the right to strike must be known to be unnegotiable. The class movement, the workers will continue to give the battle with diverse activities. And you're deeply laughed if you think you're gonna put the class movement on the plaster. In his attitude the government and employers' and trade union, the majority of GSEU and ADEDY, made up of PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA, have now made a very serious effort to prevent the strike in both GSEU and ADEDY and other secondary organisations. But it's certain they won't save you. The working class will send them where they should, like all of you and your policy. The organization of workers is their case. The trade unions elect their administrations, which, on the basis of their statutes, are authorized to operate, to decide themselves or to hold assemblies, to apologise to their members. No business has been done by the employer and the state in their operation. All other interventions aim to manipulate. To conclude, I would like to say that the JRC is asking to bring, Mr Kontonis, a legislative improvement to Article 176, so that the classification systems can be retroactively powered and assimilated to this proposed one in order to actually be entitled to large-scale workers who now under this arrangement that you have brought will not be entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u186	What do you mean? What arrangement are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u187	I'm talking about Article 176 of the ranking of creditors. So assimilate the existing systems, have retroactive effect, so that it can apply to large-scale workers. It's not happening now, Mr. Contony. Look for it better. If you're going to bring me a piece of legislation...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u188	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u189	Minister, would you like to answer? Mr Katsotis, would you allow the Minister to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u191	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u192	This is a general arrangement. In my opinion, there is no need for any legislative improvement. It's a general arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u193	Allow me. So because it is not true and we have studied it well, we say there will be retroactive power. If you are intending, we are here to see the legislative improvement, if you bring it, so that workers can actually be justified - we do not now want to number companies - which are in this poor situation and we think they should be justified here, with this assimilation of classification criteria based on the proposed scheme.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u194	Mr Cavalellas has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA is the bad student who leaves them for the end. It brought us a bill consisting of many - many bills. It is a thousand and thirty-one pages, of course, together with the explanatory statement and four hundred articles which we shall be voting on briefly so that we do not know what we are voting on. I heard here obedience to the bill, and I thought I was in another country. I heard the Minister before, who said that 'in the four hundred articles on three - four articles you tell us...'. In the seven minutes, how much can a Member say? However, I have noted other articles. So it won't be three-four, it'll be a twenty-four. It also has positive provisions, of course. Mr. Georgiadis spoke of these. But all of it is a malfunctioning and anti-development bill. I'll tell you, I'm sorry, that you're sitting in very tall chairs like Maria Antoinettes. People are hungry, people are suffering, and the political head will be shot by the world. Because with this bill you are making our society even more poor. You are lying about unemployment, first of all because there are some 500 euros wages, some underemployed population groups, and the worst is that youth has left. That's why you have a better indicator. EACH, pensions, pensions, seizures, evidence, taxes, lies, deceit, narratives, ideologies. The first residence has become a popular residence now, so that there is a blurred framework, that we can take it all. The economy needs a push - you don't believe in the free economy, that's for sure - wants a kick. The backbone is the ordinary citizen, who can neither operate nor invest. Someone told me that 75% - 80% of what she's making is giving it to funds, taxes, VAT, stories. How can a man thus function today? You have, of course, found the easy solution, which was overtax, and what houses the banks do not get, you will get it for 500 euros. The thing is where you'll find to put all this world on the ground. Of course you do not believe in ownership, and that is probably within your ideology, because many of the SYRIZA's gentlemen have declared communists. So you're against the property. Of course, as we have said on this issue, we must also say some things very soon about Macedonia. I believe you are doing this by conviction. It's left position. I see an old form here - not to say what it is - talking about a people who have been tortured by the Greeks. How violently - he says - the Macedonian populations. It says that "it is a result - as we have already said - of the repression of the Bulgarian and Greek bourgeoisie. We need to follow closely the Greek Government's current measures on the reeling of the population." The first conclusion, then, is that we have nothing to do with Greeks. Another form, which I also do not want to say what it is, states: 'A call to the Macedonian people who live under Greek sovereignty'. So you think that's why you found it, and it's easy now. I see here an old map, before 1941, which says "Vardarska" and another map, which is an astronomical one, which includes Thessaloniki in "Moderna Macedonia". The bad news is for the neo-democratics, who will be forced to vote for the name 'Macedonia' and their world will not allow it. Because they are the Macedonians, the Skopje. We have to blackmail them with the European Union and NATO. In any case, you will deliver Greece smaller. I heard yesterday and the Muslim MPs, who spoke about'minority' and have carefully concealed or made it a shortcut, that the minority is Muslim and they put it about as we understand it. You've reached out to some agencies. Did you invite them for what reason? For the show, it's obviously! They said a lot of things, but I did not see any improvement on what they set out. For example, the introduced regulation on compulsory mediation brings twice and twice as high costs and certainly does not have a similar effect in Italy alone. I am going to talk about Article 354, which abolishes tax incentives. Instead of refocusing on decentralisation, with Article 121 you take the powers of the people's markets from the municipalities and give them to the regions. The CCT for Articles 217 and 218 gives you reproach, describing the brakes of public works. You remove the consumer's right to guarantee the product. They'll all get something, which might not work in a month. It's all right, it's all right! The Greek people have money to take another. Also, you abbreviate school buildings. Less, then, school buildings and more casinos! This is a great improvement! There is the Energy Exchange, and so at some point the Greek people will be called upon to pay for the energy, when uploaded, sometimes the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Psariano has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. I need a little more time, because I want to read the whole package to you. It's not much. It's about a thousand pages. She's an overhaul. You'll give me some time to read it quickly. I don't think that's necessary, because the government's comrades have read it exhaustively. It's not like that "German gypsy", Chrysochide, who had not read the memorandum! That's all gone. We've learned everything from the outside. I will ask some of Chapter 24, page 422, paragraph 825/32! I think the government's partners will know it in detail! You must have studied it! After all, we have had months before us to discuss this in detail here and study it, what is prerequisites and what is not, what is just prerequisites and what is unfair and what is in the interests of the country, as Mr Tsakalotos said. The Minister said the half-pack that these unscrupulous, tribal blackmailers are demanding, the fascist boots of lenders, to remember wise words from the government's environment! The other half, of course, is for the benefit of the country. I want us to remember what we - the ministers now and the MPs of the government - said when they brought packages like this into the square. You remember everything. And the courts and who they were, and who they were, and who they were. All this has changed irresponsiblely, because we have given in to the fascist boot of the blackmailed lenders, 'we make them happy' when we go to Europe and when we come here we ask Parliament, we ask the Greek Parliament within two days to study this and so that we can decide and vote, when all this is soaring - they are poured, not dragged! - for months, at least six months. Why didn't we bring them up - little talk about them and find a way out, co-decide what is right about the lenders - the analgesic, the fascist boot - of which some of us should have done before these loan sharks were asked for? To discuss and find a point, to agree - the democratic arch in any case - on the implementation of a fair Memorandum of Understanding, namely, with our European partners, to agree on government and opposition - once again: democratic arch - to reject what is truly harmful and overweight for the already prosperous population of our country which has suffered dozens of wage and pension cuts and a constant overtaxation. Any man who listens to us works, if he works because most are unemployed - only in the private sector, because in the public sector, I don't think anyone who's unemployed has left, took a "pack" or was retired, took it a little earlier, took care of this - he knows very well - with the public workers - that when you work ten months, you work for the government and the state and all four work for your family. Someone from January 1st - a good year! - until December 31st of a year. From August 1st, he may take some money for his family. Until then, he works for the state. Anyone who gets a grand 750, 800 euros gets it from the state. Why? In order to appoint our clients, to pay our clienteles and friends, to re-approve, to make new committees over existing committees, to double-pay the employees of ELSTAT who are paid once, but they are paid once more to do some additional checks that we have put in here and we will build another ILO rider in the previous ILO and then build a third ILO which will be a rider to the new and old IMOs and to various committees to which we will put a number of best friends, we will pay them to settle some things that we should already have settled, for a register that should have been finished for years and under the responsibility of the previous governments. We only have a register in the areas that were Italian and we have not yet made a Land register in Greece. There are no forest maps. There are no land uses. There's nothing. Of all the things that are prerequisites, there's nothing in here. What's here? I'll tell you a few things about the cost of what's in here. There is a cost of 800,000 euros for liability allowances, operational costs, logistical infrastructure newly created addresses in the public sector, the Coordination and Monitoring Directorate of the Regulatory Framework for Business Environment and the Economic Crime Research Directorate. How many Financial Crime Control Services are we still going to have? They need a few extras. There is an undetermined bonus for the effective exercise of the functions of auditors of the newly established Economic Crime Research Directorate, undetermined possible expenditure from the establishment of regional offices in the newly established Department of Economic Crime Research. Is the Memorandum Obligation to increase the effectiveness of combating tax evasion? But that is not to set up any committees to monitor these and at the end not to do, because we are paying committees to fight tax evasion, but tax evasion is doubled, doubled, multiplied, multiplied. We also give incentives for new tax evasion. There are undetermined costs and costs. Unfortunately, I don't have time not only to read this thing to you, but also to say the cost of this thing that is not functional or efficient. This package pays nothing while it costs EUR 372,302 000. The total cost savings, i.e. revenue, are 90 million! In other words, the net excess cost is more than EUR 282 million. For what? To push the tax evasion, let's say, with fifteen committees, for which not only have we done nothing so far, but have we done it too? As far as the fight against the smuggling of fuels, drinks, tobacco and general products is concerned, we have done absolutely nothing. Should we make a couple of twenty commissions to take care of those too? We also discussed broadcasting here a number of months ago. There is now a regulation that stands out for ERT which is a public radio - for radios we say - and on the other hand private radios and municipal stations, which are public stations. We will either have separate for the private and the public - ERT and municipal - or we will put it all in a setting and in a layout.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Fisherman, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u199	Why are we making this distinction? Because at ERT, we've had a set of 'clients' and are we paying them to smuggle us, while others are uncontrollable? And we go up and say, "What is our homeland? Do not be “SCAI”?’ Let me tell you, how is our homeland something nice media that is the government majority, the leftovers, to see what our homeland is? Don't be camping? I would like to end with the arrangement that is, as foreseen, for the strike. Another monkey! It is right and fair for the majority of workers to be considered a quorum and the majority of the members present to vote. It can't be a quorum at the third meeting with eleven people and six decide about the hundred! That's not a democracy. This is some illuminated self-management and self-sufficient breakthroughs - and good! - which make a lot of laundry. This has to be over. But in order to end this, we must discuss them democratically, fairly and in a manner and in the light of the logic and not of our ideas, either on the right or on the left. I remember Mrs Fotiou, Mrs Ahtsioglou, Mr Kontonis and the fire reasons that came out when it was Opposition. Mrs Ahtsoglou on the beach of Thessaloniki swooped down the German germans Tsolakoglou, quizlings, Samarovenizelos and said about insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Fisherman, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u201	Don't you remember them, Minister? You won't remember. Let's get a videotape to remember what we have from time to time said. Then we make it so we can apply the worst memorials we've had and threaten what we'll do and where we'll put the memorials to them. And now we are applying memorial regulations that are far more than the blackmailers would ask for and the fascist boots of lenders. Why? Because there is a popular proverb of the cafe which starts with a'maggie' and ends with a 'finistrin'. We're in the finalistrin now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u202	I'll give the floor now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, I have a right to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u204	Yes, Minister, for some sort of legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u205	I want to make some clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u206	Minister, after every Member of Parliament, or whenever you consider that you should intervene in the so-called Members of this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u207	I have not made much speeches, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u208	Not just you, but the rest of the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u209	I haven't made any intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u210	You have a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u211	No, two minutes. Mr Psariano, the first thing I want to say is that you have won all three, and I challenge you to see - you were here, Theano - if one of us has used the word 'German germans'. Nor have we caught that word in our mouths, nor the 'prosecutors' or 'Cholacoglou'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u212	Cholacoglou, quizlings, Samarovenizelus...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u213	I challenge you to find us a video of one of the four of us. She's a stranger in our language, we never said so. I think others can say that they don't have it from our own mouths.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u214	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u215	Secondly, I would like to say and clarify why this is the serious thing that I want to do about this new agency - because it made me seem to me that you have chosen from all the agencies - what has happened so far. I'd like to tell you about the indictments. I tried to explain why Mr Vorides raised the matter and others in committee. What's happened so far? Someone made a complaint to Preveza that the two stands don't cut evidence. Prosecutor at the DU Preveza said: “Look at all the booths of the Preveza.” That wasn't functional. Secondly, does the AACC not want this, because the AACC has its own priority - which positions with new filters, on the basis of objective criteria - so what did we say about the existence of this body? We said instead of being any prosecutor who does something to stop the work of the DUA to consider this request, there should be a particular body that will receive public prosecutor's orders and therefore this body will be forced to do this hierarchy. In my view - I think that Mr Mavrotis has put it, if I remember correctly, in committee - it is a very good organisation, it will very much reduce the cost, it will reduce the work of the AIA, and it will therefore be more operational. I do not know if you have any complaints about other agencies - we will discuss this - but really, believe me, I think this is much more functional, much more effective and we will have results not only because this body will be hierarchy of what assumptions it needs to see first, second, third, but it will also allow ADP its work not to be disturbed and able to do its own priority. I actually wanted to make this clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I have to answer on a personal note.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Fisherman, I'm sorry, but there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u219	I have to answer our Minister on personal terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u220	He answered two questions that the Minister wanted to answer and I think he did not personally address you or falsify something from yours. So Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Sideropoulou - has the floor, which concludes the first circle of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. May I wish you a good year and a good parliamentary year. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to build my parliamentary speech by choosing first to make a reference to the negotiation of the name of the neighbouring state. I would like to say that it is now the momentum, ladies and gentlemen, now is the time when the conditions are extremely different, completely different, so that the country can achieve the national most beneficial result. I put a parameter in this House, in the national Parliament, because I think we are being watched by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our diplomats. So it is interesting for each of us to contribute with its opinion to the national negotiating effort. I therefore consider this to be the most appropriate time to start negotiations on a zero basis. Why? Because the circumstances have just changed in relation to the past. I only put one parameter in mind to all colleagues in all the wings. I'm putting the parameter of the viability of the neighbouring state. Within Europe, but also in the region, a basic prerequisite for joining organisations such as NATO, such as the European Union, is the sustainability of the state. The question, therefore, is whether we want sustainable and democratic states in the Balkan region and, more broadly, the European Union or not. The second question is whether Greece should insist - and I think it should insist strongly - on this negotiating process towards both the European Union and NATO, in relation to its position, that the neighbouring state as an artificial formula and consisting of at least three different national groups is not sustainable. In this sense Greece should insist on giving a name which, for example, could lead to a federal state being negotiated. We have an example from Belgium. We have the example of Switzerland with the cantons. It could solve the problem of creating a viable state with a sustainable solution as a central Balkan federation. Indeed, Greece can insist on this, because it is the only country that guarantees stability in the region and has the obligation and responsibility to respect this stability in the region. So he has to insist. In this sense, I think we are without great importance. We're not the accelerants. We didn't cause the problem. We will not cause the problem if the neighbouring state has the separatist tendencies that it has, and the worst are created, which we all expect if a sustainable solution is not given by creating a sustainable, stable and democratic state, because that is what is being called for. The name will eventually come from which political choice - negotiating solution will be chosen by the big players, Greece as a persistent and legitimate interest in the region, as a strength of stability, and of course the neighbours on this issue. I am done with this, Mr President, and my colleagues. Now I want to talk about the plan under another perspective. I have heard from anyone, 'we', 'you', 'the others' and others, in relation to the plan, i.e. the prerequisites and other provisions. Of course there will always be different approaches. Of course there must be different approaches, because democracy and democratic dialogue must work. However, what I think we all have to agree on, on the basis of the multi-brand plan, is whether we accept and accede to the logic of the retreat of the rule of law in the European Union or not. Because I'll tell you what's going on in the plan. I also stated publicly that I am not dogmatic and that I am not dogmatic in discussing the multi-nomadic plan for the decision that I will take, which I will tell you immediately afterwards, at the closure of my position. However, in studying philosophy and not individual provisions, I have found three fundamental contradictions in this multi-legislative draft, which - these three fundamental contradictions - do not in any way allow me to join, despite the fact that there are provisions which are functional in the multi-legislative draft, and I shall mention them in an indicative and outlived way. These three fundamental contradictions are also proof that the rule of law on a daily basis retreats the European Union's rule of law. I'm telling you a clue. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union against Poland has already been activated for too long. Why has Article 7 been activated against Poland and indeed too late, with many suspensions, with many discussions, and should have been activated immediately? Because, essentially, this country's attitude created systemic threats to the rule of law by contemplating it. I see, at the same time, the European Central Bank's position on judicial prosecution by technocrats, officials of the statistical authorities. And I totally disagree, because it is another thing that the independence of the technocrats is, and another thing, that their specific immunity goes beyond the rule of law. So here I come to the today's multi-project we are discussing, I think that all my colleagues have had to see that. There is this fundamental anti-crime, that is, what? That the basic philosophy of the European Union is being repaid, a fundamental principle, which is the rule of law and its defence. Why? Because, if you will see in the provision of the articles relating to the ICTD and there there is this philosophy and fundamental anti-law, which is reversed by the rule of law, which is a fundamental value of the European Union, with the peculiar immunity, which this article reserves, and which is abstractly granted in relation to the technocrats and officials of the TDID by exempting them from any criminal or civil liability. This is fundamental to me against the rule of law and to my democratic values. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, if you will allow me to use it yet, by closing this circle of speakers. The second fundamental anti-corruption, which is completely abstract of the plan, is the residual constitutional protection, especially of the first home. The constitution of our country has an ideologically charged wording for both the residence and the family - which I shall refer to and close with it - when we talk about the protection of the first residence, which hosts the family and then the permanent retreat in relation to the institutional guarantees that the Constitution must provide to the family. For I have to tell the ministers, who are involved, that the provisions you have brought do not build a new architecture of family policy, which provides the constitutional and institutional guarantees for the family and for the individual and social rights of its members, because they are irreversible and because they are fundamentally inconsistent with the rule of law. Proof is that if you want to defend family and family policy, you should support the family from the first child, increasing financial support according to the number of births indiscriminately, without income criteria, and much more if there is a person in the family. So these three fundamental contradictions do not allow me to go into this, even though I recognise that the country must close the third assessment, even though I recognise that the country must disburse the resources it is entitled to. And I must tell you that both the operational and positive provisions you have introduced with the establishment of an Economic Crime Control Directorate or the electronic procedure that facilitates the granting of pro-active benefits or the Energy Exchange and the amendment of the Code on Tax Procedural Procedural Statements are not enough to eliminate the fundamental contradictions to which you have moved, namely the withdrawal of the rule of law. And I am proving this to you, Mr President, and thank you very much for the tolerance of time. You've given up the legal world. You have neglected justice both on the issue of mediation and on the subject of the register. And where the rule of law and the legal world are constantly being removed institutional guarantees at individual and social level. That is why I am sorry, but I cannot join your logic. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u222	Before we move on to the next speaker, we should inform the House of the situation as it is formed in connection with speakers and with parliamentary representatives and ministers. We'll start the second cycle. In the second cycle, there are fifteen speakers. The services have already provided three other speakers from the third cycle. So we shall proceed until the end of today's sitting for eighteen Members of Parliament. Three parliamentary representatives said they would speak today by the end of the meeting and the State Secretary, Mrs...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u223	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u224	You, Mr. Chakaloto? Not Mrs. Papanatsiou?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u225	It was announced by the Bureau this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u226	There's no objection. Good, you. So we are starting with the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative, Mr Pappas, and we will proceed with three speakers - a parliamentarian. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u227	In this context, Mr President, that is to say, the crime to be committed, another commemorative crime in this Chamber, by voting on the multi-project monster. Within the provisions of the four hundred articles, arrangements and measures are included which, as mentioned above, are another powerful blow to the daily life of the Greek people and some of which are as follows: First, auctions. They will be carried out exclusively electronically from 21 February 2018, irrespective of the time of service of the cheque and the enforcement of the seizure. It is a measure intended to affect Greeks and Greek women only. Second, benefits. Redefined the scheme for the grant of the child allowance. There are about 15,000 families with an income of more than 33,000 euros, while 50,000 five hundred and fifty families with three or more children and incomes from 13,500 euros or more, a measure which is most clearly relevant to the Greek families which are severely affected. Thirdly, there will be at least 1/2 of the financially settled members to discuss and take a decision to declare a strike. Fourth, row of creditors. Claims arising before the date of designation of the first auction relating to unpaid wages up to six months from the provision of a dependent job shall be met on a preferential basis before any other claim. Fifth, abolishing three hundred and ninety-four mortgages in the country. A new single entity called the Hellenic Register is recommended. The mortgages are merged with the real estate offices. Six, real estate transfer. More accurate real estate and property charges. Seventh, S.H.I.E.L.D. Exemption of the six foreign technocrats of the GOI from criminal or civil responsibilities in the case of twenty-eight public property. This measure substantially continues to provide for the granting and loss of national jurisdiction and independence, through the provision of full immunity to executive officials of international loan sharks. Eighth, supreme. Fourteen CIFs shall be transferred to the supreme office. PPC, ELTA, GREECAP, H.H.A., all urban transport operators of Athens, i.e. OSA, STASY, etc., with the exception of Metro and nine other large DESCRIPs. And the last group of national wealth at infrastructure level is now transferred to the supranational, which is the manager in fact of international loan sharks and which will now manage all forms of infrastructure of the Greek state, uncontrolled in the foreign interests. Workers of a bankrupt undertaking shall be accorded preferential treatment before any other claim is made. Tenth, mediation. This is very important. Adjust urban and commercial affairs which is already causing severe reactions from the association of judges and prosecutors. Here, then, at the tenth point, we must stress that mediation is equal to privatization of justice. This article affects citizens' constitutionally guaranteed access to justice. These are Articles 8 and 20 of the Constitution. In any event, this regulation irreversibly affects the functioning of the judiciary by imposing unrestricted procedural obstacles to the direct access of the citizen to it and, ultimately, shifts the administration of justice to a specific private justice, cut and sewn into the measures of the financially powerful parties. Once again, you SYRIZA, because in no European Union state that is not the case, there is not what is provided by your unacceptable bill. Even in Italy, where the private intermediary exists, it is limited only to consumer and commercial disputes. So, what happens now? The citizen will pay the private ombudsman at the same time. Then, if he wishes, he will appeal to the courts. He will have to pay the lawyer's costs, that is, he will pay twice and he will need to "reconstruct" eventually, to find his point and if he finds out! I'm continuing with the articles. Eleven: Pharmacy. Minimum compulsory working hours for forty hours and compulsory holidays and overnight stays. Twelve: New ILO. A Economic Crime Investigation Directorate is hereby established, where coordination will be established between the financial prosecutor and the auditors will have an interrogative status. Thirteen:. Unnecessary business reserves. Fourteen: Fine haircut. Submission of a late or amending tax declaration until notification of the provisional corrective tax determination. Fifteen: Guarantees for VAT. As planned to date, VAT returns are a prerequisite for the inclusion in the tax register. With the new provisions, however, if a bankruptcy review has been preceded, a guarantee may be requested in order to get a new VAT. Sixteen: Disable the CNG. Seventeen: Casino. This is a scandal of scandal! You'll fill the casino country! You're taking the country back, decades back, what just happened in the Pagalos era. You'll fill the casino country! Eighteen: Archery. It changes the licensing criteria and the establishment of bakeries by reducing the required square metres. What I stressed and read up to the eighth - because I could read more, but I do not have time - is some of the points of the plan, of the monstrous kind I mentioned, which includes measures and regulations that concern only the Greek people. For example, it is very important that the regulation provides for a reduction of up to 33% of multi-Technical allowances. This is primarily about the Greek family. You are hitting the pillar of national life, one of the pillars of national life. Patrice, religion, family. You hurt the Greek family and you're happy about it! Electronic auctions. They'll hit the Greek people immediately. You said that this was for the sake of the parties and that it would not suffer the suffering of the court and the notary. So he'll be coming by e-mail the confiscation of his home. Reduction of duty from 8,700 euros to 5,700 euros. This aims exclusively at the workers of Greeks and Greek women, in order to pay more and unbearable taxes, in order to submit to your Memorandum cheques, to become poorer, to bend the head more easily. In conclusion, through the communication artifacts and exploitation of issues of enormous national importance, such as the question of the betrayal of our Macedonia, your government formula, i.e. the leftists of SYRIZA and the so-called "patriots" of Panos Kammenos, with the proposed Memorandum of Law attempts to re-establish international mandates, international loan sharks, betraying the confidence shown by the Greek people, in order to improve its economic situation. We are convinced that the prerequisites will not be the last. The lenders, the ones you claim to be coming into negotiation, have found their best ally to you. They have found an intra-Government government and we are sure that other measures will be followed, which will further impoverish the Greek people, will be deprived of the entire national property from the next generation, and will be deprived of every remaining trace of national sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows that in these difficult times we, the Golden Dawn, are the only voice of national resistance and the only reminder to all those who work evil for our country that Greece does not die. As long as there will be standing and fighting even a last Chrysangiite, the nation will hope and fight. Golden Dawn is clearly talking about a national policy, a policy which, especially in the economic sector, promotes the return to the production process and where the political coexistence and corruption will be a past. The self-evident thing proposed by the Golden Dawn is also the great fear of the system, a system which the threat of its parliamentary existence is the basis of the political agenda of the Golden Dawn. "The thieves in prison, stolen to the Greek people. Not in the Memorandum, not in subjection." This is blasphemed by the Greek nationalists of the Golden Dawn, the popular fighters who are the only ones who pervade in and out of the House that the memorandum is our misfortune, the memorandum means enslavement, the assignment of national sovereignty and ultimately national annihilation. With the memorandum and the euro I wonder and it is the truth, how can we proceed as a people as well as a nation? The economic enslavement of Greece, coupled with the demographic problem and the endemicity of a complex that political world in national matters, will lead us with mathematical accuracy to irreversible national destruction. What I would like to point out is that the left-wing Bolsheviks with their unwilling views and programmes are well aware of them, as we know their methods. At this point we will put a great question on the methods they do. Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a Greek Ministry? The Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs will sell out the name of our Macedonia? However, what we have to denounce at the moment and the Greek people and the last confiscated voter of the New Democracy must understand is the hypocritical attitude of the so-called 'false right'. The New Democracy is bailing against the Government and the various "patriots" and "Macedonians" tell us about a national red line about the name of our Macedonia. What's that national red line? As defined in Bucharest in 2008. What is that fairy tale of the neo-democratics? Listen, it was April 3, 2008. At the time, Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis set the altar line, the red line with the following words: “Yes to the complex name with geographical identification for all uses. The complex name may include the term Macedonia, but the neighbouring country will not have a different name for its internal name and a different name for its relations with Greece and its international relations. It will apply erga omnes, as against all.' In other words, the national red line includes the identification of "Upper Macedonia" and "North Macedonia" and "New Macedonia", that is, the exact same names that have fallen today on the table. Only then, in 2008, the Skopje prevented Macedonia's name from being predicted by demanding it to be called a black-and-white Macedonia. That's when the Skopje did us good. This is the permanent position of the New Democracy, i.e. the transfer of the name 'Macedonia'. What they agreed - and it is not only New Democracy, it is the Memorandum of Understanding - is all the political leaders in the Council of Political Heads: Skopje FYROM said, namely Macedonia's former Yugoslav Republic, which only the Golden Dawn, outside Parliament at that time, denounced that it was treason, that the Ferret is opening in this way, that there is a de facto recognition of Skopje as Macedonia. Let's go a little further. We also have Mr Avramopoulos, who, as Minister of Foreign Affairs in July 2012, speaks of Greece as part of the programme statements by the Government of Samaras. I read just from the Minutes: "Greece, in displaying the constructive spirit required, has taken a major compromise, accepting a complex name with geographical identification and use against all". Abrahamopoulos said that in 2012. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you want me to take you back, of the New Democracy, for the responsibilities of your supposedly great party, for the pseudo-patriots, for the sheep-wolves? October 1959. The pseudo-ethnic ruler, who is then called the nation-state, Constantine Karamanlis and his ministers of the then American EPE, namely the New Democracy of the time, recognized de facto de facto with the Leaf of the Government of the Yugoslav Republic of Skopje as Macedonia. I read: "In Athens on October 23, 1959. Article 7. Requests for legal aid are submitted by the respective Ministries of Justice..." it was a matter of the Ministry of Justice "...when the Ministers for Justice, the People's Republics of Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro are represented directly for this purpose." This 1959 by Constantine Karamanlis! He continues with Article 8 etc. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the New Democracy, hiding behind the government's majority, is politically at odds with the issue. And it seems from the moves made by her President, who now makes his offshore journey to Macedonia, that is, his journey is convenient to make specs and try with the well-known hypocrisy and philosophicalism to fish for the votes of Greek patriots. Therefore, those of you new-democratic MPs who are in Thessaloniki on 21 January, after the initial ban on joining the rally, as much as shouting, however graphic, will not convince you. You're no longer convinced. The people know you now. Mr President, you too should be aware that no one has the right to play with our national issues. No one has the right to grant a name or territory. That's true for everyone. This applies to governments that are democratically elected or non-democratic. It applies to a government majority within a parliament. Furthermore, it also applies to a expressed resolution by the people. Nobody has the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u228	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u229	We, Mr President, say that the Greek people of 2018 will be responsible and have their share of responsibility. For as the poet says: 'Kritos will be tried by the unborn, the dead.' The Golden Dawn will not cease fighting for our Macedonia, within and outside the Parliament, stable in its national line, which was the title of our first issue in 1993, which is expressed in a single sentence and says: 'No compromise for our Macedonia'. We are stable on the national line like '93, so in 2018. Macedonia is one, and it is only Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-four students and students and three teachers from the High School of Savalia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Baltas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. While coming to Parliament this morning, I remembered a small episode from a general meeting of the student club in Paris at the end of 1968, early 1969. I sat on a friend next door and said, "I come to each of these inter-conferences..." - a dictatorship in Greece - "... waiting for a Lenin to emerge from the conversation." Why, Lenin? Because in that space and at those moments, all the components at that time, the multiples, the Left, Lenin were common references and no others were involved, because, in the satirical literature of the time, at least at that time, you were left or you were a veil, and Lenin was a common reference to all the left. Obviously neither then nor now do I identify with this saying. I mean, I don't agree that either you're left or you're a schmuck. On the contrary, I think in the Majority, Elissona, and all forms of counter-population here are highly intelligent people. So I am connecting this episode with today, because I have been coming to this House all this time trying to find out whether or not there will be real arguments here, problems, shortcomings, gaps, mistakes of SYRIZA from opposition, so that a substantial dialogue can be started that will give rise to differences and help both parties. All this time, I don't see it happening almost ever. It is as if the opposition does not want to enter such a dialogue, that is to say not want to organise its thinking on the basis of real deficits, problems, etc. The government of SYRIZA, so he probably doesn't want to make SYRIZA fix it. I do not think this is an essential parliamentary practice, particularly today on the basis of this draft law. What do I mean? I think that this bill - let me describe it - is a kind of intersection in relation to all the bills that we presented at least as a government and related to the Memorandum. Why is it an incision? Because it confirms what it can mean by negotiations in quasi-sufficient terms, in terms that we have to follow and honour, even though we disagree. However, in any such general context, such as that in the memorandum, there are gaps, there are ambiguous formalities and negotiation means how these formalities should turn them towards one side or the other. As much as it sounds easy, believe me, even though I have no personal experience, it is extremely difficult. On the basis of the work done by the ministers who were involved in the negotiation, but also by the mandate of young people in these Ministries, who learned things in the "baby", warmly, able to link a left perspective with a complete technocratic adequacy, which was convinced literally by people with completely opposite ideological directions, a bill came up, which is an incision, because it opens paths of reforming the mild scale, modestly, which should have been done for many years. For example, the register, which has been pending since the Kapodistrias era, the prospect of financing child-care in Greece - let me speak - and more that has already been expressed and will continue to be expressed to the appropriate ministers. So this is a bill that opens a way - in this sense it is a new and incisive section - and in this bill we expected at least, of course, that the objections and objections would be on specific gaps, oligopolistic, errors in this bill. You can't do that. Instead, opposition - and we must explain why, as I have said, it has intelligent people within it - is pursuing an opposition policy based on a, at times, ammunition - let us say so - which goes through the foam of publicity with the help of all the media, etc., over a week, erases, until the next ward. Last, obviously, it's the story with the SYRIZA building in Koumoundourou. Why this policy? Because - I think so - there is no convincing, convincing view. Adversary opinion exists. It is the difference between, for example, working arrangements, which New Democracy explained yesterday, are the regulations of the IMF, a class share of 100% against working arrangements that we started in the negotiations in terms of the IMF and the New Democracy, and we have reached a limit on retreat - if the expression is allowed - on how the quorum can be in primary unions. That was a retreat. We've accepted it. Is it not, however, - and I am now addressing the JRC - something that the left trade union movement can use on its behalf, in order to massage the unions, to convince the active trade unionists, who are written in the club, to become cashiers and to participate in the assembly that will, if necessary, make a strike? So this evil may be reversed and it may become good for trade unionism. Instead, it seems that the JRC's partners - there is no one here to ask if I am allowed to be designated - have, for this time, chosen a form of mobilisation that creates questions. It is a form of mobilisation that has not taken place in other times, and which is summarised in at least two episodes in my mind: In the occupation of ministerial offices with open doors, no one will stop entering and discussing, in the occupation of activists, with the escort of cameras describing the fact or even me who personally experienced it, with the occupancy of vacant rooms on the beach of the Megals, with two or three coaches of the JRC who came shortly before the meeting begins to take over the empty rooms, which were no one, stay half an hour shouting slogans, so that the walls can hear them, because there was no one else to listen to them and because they were beach, there were no people from outside, after half an hour to draw up again, continue to shout out slogans directed at the open sea, enter the seller and leave. This is a form - let us say so - of trade union action, legal in my opinion. It's not illegal in the bad sense of the term. I would ask, however, what serves for their own purposes and terms of participation in a parliamentary dialogue? I conclude by saying again what I have started: this bill is an opening and a cut. We expect serious objections, if any, to articles in the bill. Some may be improved today, some not today but later. We are also waiting for an Opposition which will emerge in terms of what opposition means, which I can assure you we absolutely need to improve ourselves and, above all, the country needs to enter into a dialogue on its present and its future in real terms, rather than in terms of ammunition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u232	Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Let's start with the last one. And to begin with, because, colleagues and colleagues of the SYRIZA, you must admit that there is something impressive about this whole process, which is not easily taken care of. Of course, it is worth - and it must be done and done - to discuss specific issues and specific regulations. However, it cannot be taken care of how, for example, from the 'incompatible fight' against auctions, three years later, one argues with fanaticism about the stability of the financial system and legislates electronic auctions. That doesn't pass easy. How, for example, from where three years ago and no one understood to raise the issue of the strike, would everyone be here in the bars today objectively legislate - to say so - more difficulty in proclaiming the strike, to say it mildly? This mutation - again without anything personal - has other interesting elements. He's got aesthetics. How do you spend, like, the fist and the high fist in the nice and elegant little complex, and you're becoming an amazing Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u234	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u235	But that lasted for a long time, thirty years. This is where it happened at the speed of light. That's the first. Secondly, we must concern ourselves with what has happened. Something happened, power. And that, ladies and gentlemen, will allow me to say, is a overwhelming victory over the capitalist system against the left ideologies. Because what has proved this terrible mutation? The powerful mechanisms - what you say 'compatibility' - in fact of reproduction, reforming and a specific identity. Alexis Tsipras is the best argument. From where it was the hard revolutionary, trembling Europe, today is the political leader who awards him for his flexibility and adaptability. Is there a better argument for you? Model! However, I am also coming to the essence of the arrangements, because you have accused us of this. I say this bill today is SYRIZA, it's his ID, it's really what SYRIZA is today, because he has three things. It has the expression of opportunism, mutation and dominance, of absolute inconsistency. What are the contagious provisions for this? The arrangement for the strike, the arrangement for the auctions. Emblematic provisions! These characterize the SYRIZA that has been mutated, compromised, adapted, which will do whatever is required in order to remain in power one more day. Are these provisions positive? What's the point of view? From the classic perspective that you adopted until yesterday or from the perspective of achieving realistic - let me say - objectives that are set?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u236	From your side, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u237	From our perspective? Listen, we will say 'no' to the strike clause. But how do we want you to take this? We want to encourage you in this way. We don't want you to stop. Encouragement, not rejection. You just have to do it completely, in full, to make that rationale effective. Some of you, who do not adopt the logic of compromise, have pleaded excellently! For, ladies and gentlemen, there have been two reasonable and two arguments here: 'What should we do? We didn't like it. We compromised. But it was a compromise, and we won something with negotiation. We won that, we won the other." And there was another argument that said: 'No, representativeness is being strengthened. The workers will be mobilized. So it's going to start." So if he's going to go ahead - in this second argument - then you're gonna do it all. We want the second majority, too, please. Because then it will actually take place when we have an additional majority in the decision. That's where it really starts. So why only one majority? And it sounded good when the door opened for this debate, of course. Because, obviously, when you start, you keep going. So this door has been opened. So from what point of view, and what provisions is important: I say that this is the first SYRIZA, the opportunist, the arrogant, the mutant. But we also have the second SYRIZA, the one that cannot be cut off from his historic root. What's the flagial subdivision here? It's the layout for tritecuses and luxuries. Listen, and how militant the provision in this matter is. What's he doing here? We had two policies, so we had them. It was a policy of support for the multitude of families aimed at dealing with birthhood. It's a policy. A road. Well, first of all, that's it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't be in a hurry. Let me say the whole argument. Don't cut me in the middle. And there was a second policy, which was about dealing with poverty. The first policy - and this is an argument that we were kind enough to exchange outside Athens with a colleague from SYRIZA - said: 'Yes, but to get to supporting the third and multitude family, I must first have arrived at the third child, and so I must go from the first and second.' That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u238	It's math.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u239	Don't be in a hurry. No smart ones. Let go of it. Watch out now. We have demographic data. If you look at the average of families, we're just under two. We're on 1.8. What does that mean? It means if I want to support the birth growth, it doesn't make any sense to fund two. It makes sense to fund three and four. To make this complex - because it is complex - I do not support the fact that the only policies for strengthening and dealing with infertility are voluntary policies. I do not support that. I think it is a much more complex issue. I say, however, that there are obviously also voluntary policies. And now listen to what you're doing: How much did the luxury benefits cost? They cost 50 million. Do you raise the total how much? Yeah. That's impressive, that's why it's ideological, that's why it's militant. You're raising it by 260 million. But you erase the 50 million to give the poor families. I agree to be given. But be careful. Why are you depriving the many families of this allowance, while there is a financial possibility? Because - that's the truth - you're advocating the concept of a multiple family. You're urging her historically. And that's the answer to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u240	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u241	Please don't interrupt! Quiet, please. Mr. Voridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u242	I'm just finishing up with two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u243	How is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u244	I draw this conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. I don't have a reasonable explanation for that. Third, it's SYRIZA of incompetence. The first SYRIZA is the opportunist, the mutant. We said that. The second SYRIZA is the remaining ideoleptic. And the third is the SYRIZA of incompetence. Who's SYRIZA of impotence? Ombudsmen. We will - he says - mediation compulsory. However, as we know that it is unconstitutional, it will not be binding on the decision of the Ombudsman. Question: What is the point of the procedure? I add a procedure, I add costs, I burden the one who wants to appeal, I make the appeal compulsory, it loses money but it does not earn any time or the enforceability of the decision. This is SYRIZA of incompetence. I would like to make a specific comment: Article 61 concerns a specific issue. This issue concerns diagnostic laboratories which have already submitted an application for a permit for feasibility. You say that the new conditions will be laid down in a new ministerial decision for the way in which these workshops will be formed. That's right. It's your right. You will make the decision you want to make on these conditions. However, investments have already been made in the application because they must be accompanied by specific supporting documents. They have taken into account the former regime. If you change it, you do - it says nicely a Latin phrase - the following: Venire contra factum proprium. Administration is going against what it has said it will maintain. It's a bad administration and it'll raise damages. There are people who have submitted applications for feasibility given the previous situation. If you change it now, you must give the possibility of retrospectiveness, that is not to say to them. They should be granted their applications under the scheme they have submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Voridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u246	I conclude by saying this: is he, then, SYRIZA, as he appears in his entirety - here is a crucial question - serving home, doing something good? And the answer here, I think, is that at all levels this SYRIZA is doing something wrong. And the biggest evil he does is - and this is what they will understand, I think, everybody in the Chamber - that it cancels the ideological differences. Our only strategic opponent lives the Communist Party. Our only strategic opponent! Why? Because you are only a regular election opponent. Now, through this shape of absolute ideological dissolution and disintegration, there are obviously no conditions of serious ideological and political confrontation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u247	Mrs. Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u249	For what, Mr. Condonne?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u250	About what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u251	Excuse me very much, but that's not happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u252	I've never asked for the floor before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u253	So, if you'll excuse me, whenever someone on another party speaks, will you stand up - not you personally, but the Minister, whoever Minister is - and will you stand up?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u254	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u255	No, I'm not giving you the floor. Mrs. Jufi has the floor. Come to Stepma, Mrs. Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, listen to me before you say no. Please listen to me before you give the floor. I only asked for a minute's speech. I have not asked for the floor today at all. It has been said here about 'SYRIZA of incapacity'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u257	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u258	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u259	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u260	I beg your pardon, but if anyone wants to intervene, let the parliamentary representative intervene. Now you are invading the process, opening up a conflict and a confrontation that is not going to end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, please just a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u262	To give the floor to the speakers, to the Members of Parliament, because it is time and time and then we will run and we will reduce the time. Mrs. Jufi, third time I've called you at the Step. Do you have the option to come, yes or no? I am not giving the Minister the floor now. The Minister may take him after you. Come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, after Mrs Jufi, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u264	In this sense, all the ministers could ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after two excellent speakers, my speech can be shared. I'll try to say some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, I would also like to speak on personal matters afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u267	I shall start by saying that the legal balances, with this multi-legislative plan, between creditors' requirements and social needs are shifted - as has been said by others - for the first time with a tendency to reverse the reason between positive and negative arrangements. That is why the argument of counter-population is now based on wisdom. And we have already heard the most excellent representative of these wise men, Mr Vorides. In other words, questions and descriptions which he answers, such as 'SYRIZA is an enemy of luxury', imaginary interpretations of cutting-ups and half-truths, which are worse than lies - and I shall refer to some of them - with a view, of course, to terroristism and the world, as they help in this direction and the glimpse of the media. Therefore, despite the fact that the whole discussion process was initiated by the prerequisites, the insistence on consultations and systematic efforts, we consider that they have led, with a painful effort, to satisfactory arrangements for several major issues, which have been mentioned. Optionally, I will choose two of them: One, for which there has been very great discussion and family allowances and one that has not been discussed at all, although it is considered to be a positive reform, and it is the modernisation of the awarding of benefits for disability. I come to the subject of a very long debate on family allowances. To hear it again, I would like to say that these provisions relate to seven hundred and thirty-eight thousand families in a total of about eight hundred and focus on protecting the vulnerable social group of children. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] It has been clear from the budget that 316,000 euros, which have been saved by the reduction in the expenditure of the ministries, are allocated precisely to implement policies relating to child and family protection. And that shows the targeting of this government that does not enemy the family! On the contrary, the austerity programmes of the previous governments have led to an increase in child poverty of ten units since 2000. And I submit this table for the multiplier time which shows this launch with the policies of previous years, which have narrowed child rights to the level of protection and benefits. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Unfortunately, we know that five hundred thousand children live in poor families and face severe material deprivation. We also know that poverty in childhood is crucial to the development of the individual, reduces opportunities, leads to a accumulation of disadvantages and affects future achievements. In the direction of restraining this phenomenon - which we know from the first moment - in this disastrous, disastrous situation, against our political opponents, three years ago, we have legislated and implemented concrete actions to support children and their families, such as the humanitarian crisis programme - I remind you of an attempt to cancel it as a unilateral energy - the CRL, which has helped to reduce child poverty by 0.3% compared with 2015, the health coverage of uninsured citizens, which ensures, among other things, vaccination and maternity care services, the programme of school meals, the programme of the integration of children of the unemployed and poor mothers into nursery stations that did not have this right before that right. This is why, Mr Maniatis, children have been left behind, despite the significant increase in positions, since only children of working mothers and not "invisible" children of unemployed mothers had the right to do so before the right to do so. Also, the inclusion of the parents of vulnerable families as a priority in the labour market in the OAED programmes, the creation of two hundred and ninety-five thousand new jobs between 2014 and today, with the reduction of unemployment from 27% to 20.7%, the reduction of youth unemployment, which remains, however, very high, the strengthening of research by double the budget and the activation of European resources and higher education for the attraction and repatriation of young scientists, the generalisation of the institution of full-time kindergartens and schools and others. In the report under discussion, which has been debated, we continue to try to rebuild the architecture of family allowances, providing stronger support to the majority of families, namely, to those with one and two children who are the seven hundred thousand of the eight hundred thousand beneficiaries. Here I would like to highlight the hypocrisy of the New Democracy, which spoke of its own policy of increasing resources and strengthening the first child, and to say that the Ministry has found EUR 650,000 only a system of asymmetrical for the vast majority of all families of the most vulnerable first income category, but also of families with one and two children in the second and third income category. The rapporteur of the New Democracy only referred to the third box of the table in detail, while he consciously forgot all about it. I am therefore tabling a comparative table showing the reality for everyone. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In order to achieve this, the aid of EUR 260,000, 000, has been foreseen, increasing the total to 910,000, 000, i.e. an increase of 40%. For this action, the Government had to face two main challenges: the requirement to establish a system for the award of family allowances with a uniform and clear architecture, without any derogations, but also the requirements of creditors, who spoke about a reduction in total expenditure, the replacement of all benefits with the CRL, and the reduction of the three categories of income to two. With the agreement, the charges were maintained in three and the first two were extended. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, two more minutes, Mr President. In practice, then, the main volume of families with one and two children will increase from 57% to 110%. Yes, this arrangement has a class mark, as three hundred thousands of families belonging to the first income category will all have an increase in the number of third and multitude families, i.e. about 50% of all multitude families. With regard to the comparative few three-tiers and multi-text families of the highest income criteria that will be reduced or lost the allowance, it is perfectly understandable for their reaction and it will be an effort - it has been said in many ways - when budgetary conditions allow for some type of social dividend. I would point out that there are - and there are - major benefits as a recognition of their contribution to the serious issue of the demographic problem and others can be discussed. At this point, you will allow me to say two more things that have already been said and are in the wrong direction. When one wants to face inheritability, one must mostly strengthen the first child. This model - there are examples - has been successfully implemented in many European countries, such as France, Sweden. Apart from benefits, however, it must help to strengthen services for children and the family, which we are already doing with daycare stations, by creating new structures and school meals. We want policies geared towards unemployment rates, an extension to the mechanisms for supporting new couples, already provided for in countermeasures with the housing and first home subsidy in 2019 and, of course, to balance family income. Other measures such as dealing with gender discrimination at work, harmonising working and family life, with child care structures, flexible working hours and parental leave systems can help in this direction. In conclusion - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - in the area of social protection for better support for the child and family, the analgesic, right-wing and left-wing 'flyers', the government increased the budget by EUR 315 million from the EUR 750 in 2015 to the EUR 1.83 000 in 2018 and, in my opinion, is accused of redistributing poverty. For the purpose of granting the single family allowance, as well as the pre-primary disability benefits, which I have not been able to mention, it will try to implement a reliable, non-existent, transparent system, without arbitrary, equal and credible, but also with a continuous effort to strengthen them, by addressing omissions, shortcomings and inconsistencies that may exist, but certainly in a better direction than all the previous ones. We continue and insist with the submission of proposals, arguments, legislation and in substantial dialogue for necessary reforms and not with cries, lines, kilowatts or political deafness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u268	The Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr. Kontonis, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, I take the floor because Mr Voridis has not been used to us in this Chamber in an absolute perversion of what the government is proposing. He did that in his last speech. In fact, he complained to the government on the grounds of incapacity. He said, therefore, that we are legislating and introducing a procedure, which has been adopted since 2010 otherwise, mediation, compulsory in some private disputes, which he said does not result in a mandatory decision. I should like once again to inform the House and Mr Voridis, if he wants to hear it, because I have said it at least twice, that the mediation procedure does not lead to a decision, because there is no one to decide. The ombudsman does not decide, and if the opposite were the case, ladies and gentlemen, those who accused the government in the past period would be right, that he shapes a position of quasi-constitutional judge, which is completely unconstitutional. Therefore, Mr Vorides, there is no decision in the mediation process, because there is no one to decide. Where does the positive development of this process lead? It leads to a practical compromise between the parties, which will primarily be drawn up by proxy lawyers with the agreement of their mandates. First, then, inaccurate and don't say these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u270	What inaccurateness? We agreed on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u271	Secondly, you say that the decision - which from what you understood is not a decision, is a practical compromise - does not lead to an enforceable title. I would again inform you that the practical compromise, which the Ombudsman will submit to the competent judge, will become an enforceable title. And that is why it is of enormous value, Mr Voridis, mediation. But all that I will not call lies, but inaccurate, because you fraudulently say it for one reason: to hide behind this misinformation the nakedness of your own legislative initiatives. And how does it turn out? For seven years, we have not had, ladies and gentlemen, in the pan-Hellenic world, ten mediation decisions. I handle the term to come to a match with what Mr Vorides said. We didn't have ten minutes of compromise. Why? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we come with a draft law. So we're telling you, if you want to say anything about the draft law, you can tell us. Do not put as provisions things that are not stated. And please very much, if you want to be constructive. We cannot hear claims that nothing has to do with reality, nothing has to do with the bill and they want to fill political gaps and legislative failures, which have been proved in practice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, I would like a minute, please, on a personal note.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u273	Mr Voridis, I would ask you not to hold a dialogue, because the Minister will ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u274	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u275	I'm overdoing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u276	No dialogue, though. Please, Minister, let's move on. Please, Mr. Voridis, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u277	If you give Mr Vorides the floor, I will also ask why I should speak about the opportunism that has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u278	If Mr. Paulakis wants to say something about opportunism, we should have it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Polakis, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u280	I say, if you give Mr. Voridis the floor on fraud, I, too, request the personal reason for the opportunism he said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u281	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u282	Allow me. Because he has given me sabotage, even though I can tell the truth, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u283	Please, Mr. Voridis, on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u284	Personally, personally. But my treacherousness gave it to me in relation to a point of argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u285	I didn't say about sabotage. I said inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u286	Oh, no. You said at the beginning inaccurate, and then you said 'doubtfully'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u287	"I don't mean sabotage," I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u288	Watch out, even though I'm telling the truth, the covetousness of SYRIZA is not a bad thing. But now I'm saying this, if you'll excuse me. Where do we disagree? We agreed that there was no decision. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u289	Oh, no. You said...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u290	Watch out. We agreed that from this process, leave the practical compromise, there is no enforceability.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u291	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u292	We agreed. From the mediation process, Mr. Contony.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u293	What do you say, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u294	There isn't. Let me say it, and then you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u295	The practical compromise...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u296	All right, you're gonna let us argue, though? Do we disagree, but do we agree where we disagree on the argument? My problem is not because you are putting in a process of compromise, which is called mediation. No problem in that. The problem lies in compulsoryity. Why is the problem compulsory? Because, while he does not finally take the action to the courts - for the reasons we have said, because he will end up there - he puts an additional stage of procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u297	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u298	...which the party who refuses to do so from the outset will lead to a dead end, but what will have happened? Time and cost will be invaded. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u299	You're welcome, Mr. Voridis. You mentioned the staff, but you must not start a debate, because Mr Lazarides now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u300	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u301	I have given the floor to Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u302	I'd like ten seconds. By the time Mr. Lazarides arrives, I'll have said what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u303	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u304	Just the opposite happens, Mr. Voridis. Once the practical compromise has been ratified by the competent judge, it becomes enforceable and any judicial development has been neglected. That's mediation. This is the law that has been in force since 2010. If there is a practical compromise ratified by the competent judge, the judicial process has ended. What don't you finally understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. We've seen and heard a lot of things here. Today we have also seen the New Democracy, through Mr Voridis, approaching working aspects of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u307	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u308	There is no question of that. He testified some opinions that were close. I won't say anything wrong with the JRC. I would like to say here now that the New Democracy should be concerned about this or the JRC. To say this more specifically, we see that the opposition has chosen ideological and controversy and has left employment with economic sizes, because that is where it has now found that this government is leading the country to clearing and is leaving the disaster in which these two parties led the country. There have also been speakers who have referred here to a number of views that macroeconomicly - he says - were well-sized by the government in 2014. Of course, they forgot that in 2014 that Samara - Venizelos government escaped by recourse to the polls, after extending for six months...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u309	How did he escape?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u310	It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. As much as you want to question it, it's a fact. You didn't pass the evaluation. You escaped because you couldn't get the review. That's a reality. Here now we see some evidence. We will provide evidence of what this government has done and what the previous ones have delivered. I have here some data, which the Athens Chamber of Crafts submits after research. They are not tabled by the government. It says the Athens Chamber of Crafts: "In 20.63% the annual increase in the establishment of new small and medium-sized enterprises is recorded in 2017," the Athens Chamber of Crafts says, according to the figures of the General Commercial Register (GEM) - "Although for the same period the deletions have resolved by 66.14%". It's overwhelming. He continues and says: "As mentioned in a chamber communication, on a constant upward orbit, important industries of craft and services were moved throughout the previous year, such as bakery, pastry, woodwork, printing works, metal constructions, machinery, workshops, silver-glazing, plumbing, electrical installations, barbers, hairdressing, i.e. the whole economy." So? On the other hand, I would like to tell you what the European Commission has said by the mouth of Mr Sponge. He says: "In August Greece is turning a page. In August 2018 - says the European Commission - 'complete the memorandum as we know it and it is the first time since 2009 that a programme will be completed. The completion of the third evaluation, which is the final stage, will be the beginning of discussions on the Memorandum of Understanding. I believe that these discussions..." etc. You can see, then, that the numbers are coming, but also that all the institutions can justify this government. We are now coming to the social sector. Here we see some figures, some tables that exist, according to which the social solidarity budget of the Ministry of Labour in 2015 was 750 million euros and in 2018 it will reach 1,830,000 euros. This means two and a half times more than what previous governments had taken care of for social policy. You see that in the last two months, the country has been out on bonds markets repeatedly and has managed to make a multiple record. A month ago he managed and got 2007 interest rates, and then with another exit, on the last day of 2005, which means we have a downward trend in interest rates. This is something that shows recognition of this government's economic performance by all international actors, by markets and international players. In the NSRF, we are the first country to be absorbed. From 2014 to 2017 we have absorbed 25% of the NRP 2014-2020, with an annual absorption of 11.5%. Do you know how much the government of New Democracy and PASOK was absorbed? It was 1.5%. That was her. Compare the two sizes. This country has 11.5% absorption with this government and had 1.5% with the Government of New Democracy and PASOK. As far as unemployment is concerned, we are the first country in Europe to reduce unemployment. The previous governments received unemployment in 2009 at 9% and took it to 28%. This government received unemployment in January 2014 at 28% and has already taken it to 20% and, as all figures show, on the basis of the declarations made by the competent bodies, we may have fallen below 15% by the end of 2018. At the same time, there is a explosion in exports, in industrial production, in orders, in the climate of confidence. It's all uphill, unlike previous governments, where all indicators were on downhill track. Everyone was on a negative orbit. On Thessaloniki, the Greek Port Authority noted a record for a decade. This year's performance can be compared to that of 2007, despite the fact that at the customs offices of the Greek Port Authority we have a shift less. Still, we have a decade's record. The International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in 2016 for the first time recorded profits of 500,000 euros and predicting profits for 2017 is 40%. Something else we need to stress, because it is important for Macedonia and Kavala, it is something that the media have not mentioned at all. This shows how dependent the media are. The Fertilizers industry in Kavala opened up, which had been closed down by previous governments. We are talking about a hundred and eighty workers, who had been sent to misery by the previous governments. People got into work before Christmas and procedures started to pay them all the debts they owed, etc. Building activity began - slowly, but began again. This is an activity that all of us engineers - me, engineers - have been making available since 2009, and when we were calling and told not to hit the building, because the building maintains two hundred and fifty jobs, they whistled indifferently without showing any sensitivity. We heard the agencies here the other day. Most operators were positive in terms of the bill and made significant points. I have noted here what was said by both the officials in the register and by the president of the notaries about what was happening with the register. They have all made negative criticisms of the register, in which they are well-known about what they have done: they have spent all the money they received from PASOK and New Democracy, what was given by the European Union, without having covered a large proportion. I do not remember exactly the number, but it must be under 15% and the percentage of the country covered by the register. I would like to go ahead with my comment on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation has been closed and in a positive way, without undue requirements on the part of creditors, which has been the case in the previous assessments with the tolerant attitude of the governments at the time. Economic indicators show that there is recovery and great prospects. The climate for the economy after the third assessment is positive. We are launching the exit from the memoranda and the comitology, and we are moving on to the country's productive reconstruction. What if we're happy? Yeah. Not resurrected, though. Let's keep moving. You know, we've been fighting all this time and we've been preventing situations and policies that come from the past. Three years later we see the first positive samples, unlike previous governments, which for five years only had negative figures to show. It is therefore right for this government to say that 'it has started to appear light at the end of the tunnel and things will go better'. The current government has been able to reduce unemployment for the first time since the start of the crisis. So she reduced it by eight points and took it to 20% of 27.8%. That is an indication of our policy, but not a reason to celebrate. Let us mention, however, the increase in jobs that between 2015 and today, two hundred and sixty thousand new jobs have been created, while, respectively, between 2012 and 2014, the Samara-Venizelou period, a hundred and seventy-three thousand jobs have been lost. This change is related to the real improvement of the economy, the real prospect of getting out of the crisis. Positive references are made to the course of the Greek economy and are now frequent. We are talking about the provisions of the bill without any new financial measures, but only with reforms, which are the result, as we have said, of a successful negotiation with the institutions. Speaking of labour - and more specifically of the right to strike - the Minister yesterday was very clear. The arrangement states: ‘In order for the general meeting to have a quorum, half of the present members that are cash-added should be present at the general meeting’. That is what happens to all clubs and all clubs. Warning: Setting does not say that half the union members should vote for the strike. The arrangement says that they should simply be present at the general meeting, so that the general meeting has a quorum. In common sense and visually, the provision does not change the decision-making for strike. The decision to strike shall always be taken by the relevant majority of the present. This provision shall not apply to unions of all the Member States, i.e. to associations of workers in supermarkets or banks where, as provided for by Law No 1264, the Board of Directors takes that decision. As far as family benefits are concerned, the budget of 40% is increased. Of the 650,000,000 euros paid to allowances, we go to 910,000,000 euros. What is changing is that the beneficiaries are now divided into three categories of income on the basis of which beneficiaries and benefits are recalculated. It is true, however, that seven hundred and thirty - eight thousand families benefit from the total of eight hundred four thousand families who receive these allowances and increases will be very important. I would like here to ask, Minister, that you look again at the issue of the distribution of family allowances because benefits are being abolished. Here you should see it again, and in some categories where we have very large increases, there could not be so large increases and these families where the benefits are abolished. That is where I think this could be tackled in some way, because it is a shock for families who lose the benefits. Under the law, they are limited to the private sector. The public sector has its own allowances which do not change at present. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for one or two minutes. Crossing the matter of competence of the Ministry of the Environment, a new single body is set up in the Greek Stock Exchange, which will incorporate the "ECFS S.A.", the real estate offices and mortgages, with the aim of completing the realisation of the Greek territory after 2020, which is extremely important both for the country and for us. A single body, a legal person governed by public law, is set up with the Land register and the mortgages, for the better organisation and the quickest possible management of all our affairs. This, of course, - and I quote it once again - a solution must be found for the small islands with their specific characteristics, certainly for the transitional period until the said body is organised. The Minister said yesterday that there is provision for special sub-offices on very small islands. It is a good thing and the relevant decision needs to be taken. In conclusion, I shall refer to the amendments that I tabled, based on the complaints and arguments made during yesterday's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Lazaridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I shall end in less than two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u313	Yeah, but we're in the eighteenth minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, budgetary and political uncertainty has left. What is at stake is certain that Greece is stabilising, that it is applying them as it implements the reforms provided for in the third programme, that, in any case, uncertainty and pessimism on the market are slowly going through the margin. I would now like a minute to refer to the amendments. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister for this. With regard to Article 120, where reference is made to 'credit' in paragraph 3 and adding the word 'financial', I think that the words 'legal persons' should be added to 'credit and finance' if we are to extend it. Another amendment now concerns the establishment of the National Stock Exchange. We are talking about Article 19(3). While provision is made for the transfer of all scientific staff - engineers, economists, computers, a total of twenty persons from various categories of scientists - and their absorption by the new body is not the same for lawyers. It's very important to take care of this. It is fair to demand these people and it is important to make use of the experience they have gained. Especially on Thessaloniki as to how they handled the case "Bookbook" and the protection of citizens' rights, we have really left us very positive impressions and are satisfied with the citizens. So I think these people should be exploited. This amendment is the general number 1435 and specific number 228. Another amendment, now, is the one on quarries with a general number of 1434 and a specific number of 227. They have a problem with quarries. After the 20 years they have the opportunity to ask for two five-year extensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u315	Please, Mr Lazaridis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I shall end in less than a minute. There are delays in their files due to the decentralised regions - I am talking about environmental impact studies, etc. - as a result of several quarries not having the possibility, not because of their own fault, to be able to renew, prolong, as they have the right to the law. I would like, Minister, your sensitivity. I know your sensitivity. Here, now, we're not going to analyse it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u317	You're talking about rehab.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u318	That's right. Let's see it because, really, it's a fair request, Minister. One last thing, and I'm closing up with it. I would like to ask the Minister, Mr Pappas, to exclude from Article 220 the radio stations of the Church, because their mission is indeed social. Through these radio stations we have the possibility of our compatriots, fellow humans, who cannot go to church, to hear both the function and the preaching. This really is relief and comfort for people when they are in bed with sickness or other things and cannot go to church. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u319	You're welcome, Mr. Lazarides. I would like to say this to all colleagues: as is the case in the Rules of Procedure today, the Prime Minister and the Heads of the parties are entitled 12 minutes. If, then, the parliamentary representatives speak sixteen, seventeen and eighteen minutes, the Members will not speak. I am sorry, but in fact we must apply the Rules of Procedure. Not everyone can speak as much time as they want, because then no Member will speak. We said there's an understanding, but someone can't come and speak for twenty minutes. Mercy! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, seventeen students and students and two teachers from Larissa Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association has the floor - DIMAR Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today obliged to address the great account of the government and the small one supporting the great account. What's the big account? The big account is that the country is soon heading towards a definitive or clean exit. We support that exit with aggressive or unattractive determination, it will simply not be because you who support the clean exit are committed to three generations. It is the overcrowding of 3.5%, the EUR 24,000,000 by 2021, 2% by 2060. You have taken care to opt for the cuts for 2019 and 2020. It's the personal difference in this monstrosity, the insurance of Katrugalos, and it's the reduction of duty by about 3,000. We claim that even if you get the certificate of exit, for which you give the creditors everything, the exit will not be safe, because firstly, the public debt service will have an extra cost, which will eat the surpluses that come out of taxes and cuts, and secondly, there will not be a stable investment climate that will enable Greece to change course. Of course the small account today, which supports the great, is that for the first time we have prerequisites without measures. No more lies, ladies and gentlemen! When discussing the budget, I summarised in a table the twelve measures and the cuts that the Government presided over before the summer of 2017 in the so-called fourth Memorandum and which start with the cuts in the tax-free allowances of employees and pensioners, the reduction in particular on the clearance, the cuts in the CSR, the abolition of the reduced VAT on twenty-six islands and so on. Read the board again, please, I've summarised it, conspicuous in twelve points. I'm filing him in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the second individual account supporting the current government effort to convince SYRIZA MPs and the audience to vote for these measures is that this legislation of four hundred articles has more positive than negative. We're starting with the negatives. Mr Tsakalotos said: 'Gorgios we have lost', the well-known joke, namely that we have lost the right to strike in the negotiation. Mrs Ahtsoglou was trying to convince the Chamber earlier that this was a good legalization, to put the trade union movement on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government's intervention is not about the vote on the strike. It concerns the substance of the primary association with the quorum, and the problem will exist in the large associations of the lekanomaceaudium. I explained to the committee the example of the CSCE or the CSCE. They want a field to make this quorum. So he mistakes the right to strike, no matter how much he tries to say he doesn't. And, of course, he's joining a part of the New Democracy agenda. That's why you see this conflict with the New Democracy, if it does it right or it doesn't do it right. And, of course, the question - since it changes the quorum of Article 8 of the n. 1264 at the assembly - it will also be interpreted as an intervention in the whole of Greece and we will have a great deal of involvement in this. The second negative, which the government has also not called into question, is what we had denounced for the over ninety-nine years. My controversy with Mr Tsakalotos was not only for the hundred years, it was also about the fact that the Greek Public Participation Company would take the rights of the State from participation in public enterprises and all the public enterprises now go to the supranational, whose control they have with the Government and the lenders. No one runs the superstate on their own. I have called on the committee to present the list of companies to us, because the dispute at the time in the debate on the bill on the excess is, if they go to three or four companies. At first the government tried to cover it, then it had to testify the paintings. It could not be legislated differently. Mr. Chakalotos didn't testify to the painting. I searched and found him in the budget report. These are, ladies and gentlemen, listed and unlisted public companies. You give it all to the lenders. That's the list. I'm filing him for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned list, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Hatzidakis, who spoke earlier, said what the lenders were asking of us for the strike when we were in conflict and the New Democracy would do so if PASOK then hadn't vetoed which we kept. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now see what is positive. You are sweating the workers' ears, saying that you are giving them the privilege of being given priority in auctioning. First of all, this privilege is for only six months, while the requirements are for many more months and for the rights of compensation. I would, however, like to ask Mr Kontonis to answer me, because when he reads Articles 176 and 177, I understood that there is still a hunger against workers, as this priority, ladies and gentlemen, does not apply to the claims made before the law was passed. It's true from now on. So who's going to cover up the government? Where do banks currently give loans and what property do they mortgage? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, we had a deal. Please don't be strict with me alone. I shall end by the time the other speakers have finished. I therefore argue that it is not about the old requirements of lenders and therefore you are mocking workers, and I would ask Mr Kontonis, if I am mistaken, to take the floor now to say so. Ladies and gentlemen, is the compulsory mediation of twice as high as the cost, the electronic auctions that will'remove the stress' from the owners, the additional cost, with the simultaneous term of office of the Secretary-General, the substitutes, and all that the General Accounting Office says,'snap' to the three-tiers and multitudes, the country's 'casing', casinos and slots everywhere? Is this a vision of fair growth and productive reconstruction, or the removal of the responsibilities of local government, the problematic Land register? Even the Electricity Exchange is our work that you present in positive. I could therefore refer to one - one of the four hundred articles, to show that not only are there the major politically negative, but that what you say as positive does not apply. I stayed in the last, and I'll be done with it. The government is preparing to build a large prosecuting body a large ILO. This goes on to hide, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the government took zero on the 'hunt' of tax evasion. She's got the lists left in her hands. Lagard, Boryans, a list of fifty-five thousand of those who made the money abroad. And he's going to cover it with this trick, which says what? That he's going to get back the thirty thousand cases he went to the ADP after the decommissioning of the AIF. So we have a front - the back of thousands of outstanding cases, resulting in limitations. It is clear that various toys will also be played here with the staff of this organization. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the account is false, that we have prerequisites for a voluntarily negotiating and that if there is no major change, which will begin with a change in political relations, to change the way in which national agreement is governed, with an exit plan and another negotiation, the country will, unfortunately, be locked up, no matter how much you try to convince us to the contrary. Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u323	The Minister wants to make one position on the amendments. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u324	This is an amendment with two articles. The first article of the amendment regulates the issue of drawing up the annual report on tax expenditure and, instead of being made by the independent authority, will be made by the General Accounting Office of the State. The second article is what I promised you in committee and which is for auctions, which harmonises the Code of Receipts, the CEDEFOP, with the Code of Civil Procedure. We must be very clear, because it has become a spice in this. What AIA does now with the same rules, with the same priorities, with the same filters, can now do it electronically. Nothing else, as I have read in the newspapers, but unfortunately I have heard in this House, does not change from this change. Now we have the legislative improvements. Some are verbal corrections for which I don't have to say anything. Some are transitional, which I still don't have to say anything important. One concerns the new organisation that Mr. Koutsoukos told us we were doing it, because we have taken nothing from tax evasion. I also told the committee, Mr Koutsouko, why this body is being done and in reply to Mr Psarian, I re-evaluated the same explanation. Read this too, and we can have a conversation about whether I'm right or wrong. All we do is that the ILO will have more representatives in this coordinating body. A legislative improvement satisfys a request from employees in casinos, who will be able - when they are seasonally, closing the casino - to get at least 70% of their wages, and before being in the order that it was a matter of negotiation with both sides. These are the basics. It also has a change - Mr Haritsis is not here who might want to explain it - in the Public Investment Programme and how it is calculated.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u325	Can you leave the casino tax on the way it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u326	No, the casino laws we haven't brought them yet, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, may I have the floor to ask a question about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u328	You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u329	Minister, I would like you to answer two questions. First of all, if I understand well, in relation to what you are doing, you harmonise the framework for the conduct of bank auctions with the equivalent of the public. That's what you're doing. This means that the Code of Public Revenue is amended in the same direction as the Code of Civil Procedure. So two questions. In carrying out electronic auctions, the public is, in essence, an expedited party. That's what we're talking about, actually. The Code of Civil Procedure provides that the additional offer to an auction where the bank is a speedy party may be lower than the objective value of the property. The Code of Conduct does not provide for that. They're harmonizing it too. Furthermore, the Public Revenue Code does not provide for any protection in respect of the first residence, even if the debtor of the State meets the criteria incorporated into the Katseli Act. In the law on the protection of first home from auction there is no explicit provision that will prevent taxi or the insurance fund from taking out the first place in the hammer. To what extent is the simulation of these two procedures progressed? Speaking of which and you are here, Mr Chakaloto, I would like to ask the following question. We have read that there is a veto of lenders to you in relation to the extension of protection of first residence after 1-1-2019. You have been told that this cannot go any further. The extension will not be accepted after 1-1-2019. I want you to inform the House and the Greek people, to what extent they are having difficulties and how you will deal with it. Because you understand that it is a crucial issue to protect the first home, not just to talk about protecting against auctions, because that is what you are doing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u330	I'll only answer you in thirty seconds when it comes to negotiating.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u331	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u332	Mrs Papanatsiou, who knows more about the other questions, can take the floor for one minute and answer your question. The negotiation has not taken place, about what is going to happen with Katselis - Stathakis after 2019. But since you asked, one thing I want to explain. And on December 31, 2018, to enter the Stathakis - Katseli - to apply, not to make a judicial decision - you are therefore as long as the court and the court decide to decide March, April 2019. This is important and all citizens should know when we say that it is over - if we do not change anything - on 31 December 2018 the Stathakis - Katseli Act does not mean anything for those who have been introduced by that date.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u333	Do you intend to put it in the negotiation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u334	What I'm going to put in the negotiation is a talk about the future that we're going to discuss. You can come, with great pleasure, see me and tell me what I have to put into the negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Amyras has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, we welcome the electronic voting system to the parliament. There are digital nice german screens and look at how infamous life brings them! The first electronic vote will deal with electronic auctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u337	As far as I know, it's not going to come tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u338	It's okay. It will apply from the next day. In any case, we are experiencing a surreal stage with directors of government MPs and ministers. And I would say that I have seen no reaction from the government's MPs, because the government itself wants to turn them into electronic parliamentarians, i.e. vote automatically. Do not read, have time, do not pass through the suffering of information and search for the bills and provisions of the government. You once said some krone, like you're every word of the Constitution. You once swore that your beacon is the good legalization. You once said you weren't like the others. To submit a thousand pages, four hundred articles at 8 a.m. and the next day at 10 a.m., the parties and all the MPs must be placed. It proves that all those heroic crowns you were saying went for a walk. Perhaps the non paper of the Ministry of Justice which was trying to justify the introduction of electronic auctions into legal life - and said that it is for reasons of protecting mental health, particularly those who lose their homes - rather, in the end, its e-mail to ensure the mental health and peace of government MPs and ministers. Otherwise, I can't explain. They must vote 'yes' automatically in everything without complaining about anything. And the day before yesterday in the committee that the committee bureau made a proposal and said that the Members should speak for three minutes from four that were originally not even one of the government's Members came out to say no, to react. So let's go to the first reading of the plan. He said Mr. Chakalotos that positives are more than negative. I would like to see four points together, Minister, if you are kind. First of all, we're going to electronic auctions. In 2014, the current Prime Minister warned the government at that time, not to think of going into auctions of any kind and saying that from the popular reaction the auctions could only be made in a foreign country. Eventually not the notaries had to move to a foreign country. All they have to do is have a computer. Mr Tsipras also told us at the time, and we heard him now at the Ministerial Council, to advise you ministers to protect from the banks the poor devils of wage earners and small entrepreneurship. Dear Minister, a thousand bank accounts a day have to deal with the rich? I would also remind you of what Mr Tsipras said about the issue - which is dominant in this draft law - the quorum, 50% + 1 for the strikes, in the summer of 2014, when ADEDY had launched a strike against the evaluation of civil servants. He said: “The right to strike was conquered through hard struggles. We're not going to remove it in any way. It is a political choice.’ So this provision is your political choice? Is it positive, or is it negative, Minister? We're confused about what, really, you think about this arrangement for strikes. Before you took over the power, SYRIZA and many current ministers who were in the front line of the supposed resistance, told us that the changes to the strikes are the pressures of the IMF and the Troika and you would deny them. So what happened? Who scored to understand? The third question is the superstition. Do you remember the crowns of SYRIZA and ANEL for the sale of public property for the silvers of the country that came out in the hammer? In 2016, therefore, you set up the superstition, where, as the decisive reason is known, the lenders have it and transferred for ninety years the entire state-owned property to this superstition. Do I put aside the well-known joke about ninety-nine souffles - you know that, Minister? - and I'm telling you, why are you coming today and transferring all the CPOs to the supreme? We have heard before Mr Annell tell us about the IGC that he has a profit of EUR 500,000 this year. So why did you take the profitable company to the suburb? May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, what have you given this draft law now? We have urban transport, OSA, OSH and STASY, we have OASKA, we have ELTA, we have the waters of Thessaloniki, the waters of Athens, i.e. HEADAP and HEATH, PPC, International Airport of Athens, the Greek Alikis, ETVA. Even the Corinth Canal you give it to the superstition for ninety-nine years, even the fishing market you give to the superstition, even the Central Market of Thessaloniki, even the Municipal Market of Thessaloniki, and even the Municipal Shops. Dear colleagues of SYRIZA and ANEL how do you judge this provision? Is it positive where all the public property goes - and now the last ECIs left out - to the decisive power of lenders for a century? So, the silvers were all about scrubbing or selling, like you were saying? I'm going to the family allowances issue. Seventy thousand families, threeteen and tents, lose the whole or much of the small symbolic help of the state toward them. And I ask the dear Mr. Tsakalotus. We're gonna have a 4% surplus, right? Can't any of this overcrowding be found for these tense families so you won't cut their allowance? So where are the margins of heroic and proud negotiation? Can't you even do that? The families, however, with one and two children are more numerous than those with three and four children. I fear, I say, that your criterion may have been this well-known old-fashioned one. But there is, and I have to recognise, a development dimension in the multi-brand plan. You create new casinos in the country, you are bonusing gambling, removing admission tickets and reducing casino tax, linking tax rates to their profitability. Mr. Tsakalotos, why are you starting to reduce the corporate tax on casinos? Why don't you start from the exporting Greek companies, those that produce, create new jobs and add value to the Greek product? What added value brings to the Greek economy a casino in order for you to give it tax relief as well? And a rhetorical, mostly, textured question. You say the memorials end in August 2018. Together, do the capital controls end? Does anyone remember the capital controls? Ladies and gentlemen, the prerequisites we should be discussing here today are other ones. It is, for example, that Greece is in the second worst position of the European Union in the number of open cases of infringement of Community legislation on environmental matters. For arbitrary fines charged for arbitrary construction in Greece amount to EUR 183,4 million. Do you know how much everything's been collected? EUR 3.1 million has been collected, i.e. 1.7% of the fines. Then tell me why we should be surprised if we see any arbitrary mediation with the Parthenon on the Acropolis. Can I tell you about the illegal dumpsters? Right now, there are twenty illegal landfills in operation in Greece in the year 2018, which wants to become a normal country. Twenty illegal landfills in Antikythera, two in Ikaria, Kalymnos, Gia, Kythera, Lero, Milos, Santorini, Sykkino, Sifnos, Patmos, Hydra, South Evia, two in Elia, three in Messinia, an illegal landfill in Arcadia. By 2020, ladies and gentlemen, we will pay fines for these illegal landfills of EUR 17 million. Be careful now, we have not reached these fines for violating European legislation, we want more. Looks like we got it in our blood, we're pulling it. By September 18, 2016, the government should bring to Parliament and integrate the Parliament into national law the directive on maritime spatial planning. The European Commission has referred us to the European Court of Justice and asks - look out! - fine EUR 31,416 per day. That is to say, we will pay EUR 31,416 a day until the directive is fully transposed into national law! What are you doing three years? Can I tell you another prerequisite? Waterways. Croatia, within one year, had licensed eleven water routes. We Greece and the present Greek Government, over the last three years all and all, have been licensed two water routes, and on the third, this in Patras, has not yet been completed. I remind you that the consultation on the railways bill has expired, has passed since September 2016. Let me tell you about the licensed radio stations that matter. There's still no map for digital radio. How do we start by putting the cart in front of the horse? It's a question. It is also not mentioned, how the network provider will be licensed. This is very important. We'll emptied one wheel of the wagon and the other won't. The proposed transition plan is also not mentioned. I would remind you that when television was switched from analogue to digital, a four-year transition period was given. Here from one moment to the next, we're going to a shocking new situation. I would remind you that today when we are talking about the three biggest student homes in the country with two and a half thousand students, they are unable to offer food, as required, and heating to students. But I wouldn't ask you that either? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. Let's go to something else. I see Mr. Blonde in the mountains. I want to tell you about diabetes mellitus. Forty countries around the world, apparently you know it yourself, use another system for detecting and monitoring blood glucose and diabetic patients do not need to be pierced every day by injection. Isn't that a prerequisite for the quality of life of the weakest? Will Greece become the forty-fourth first to adopt this kind of monitoring system, which will, of course, improve the lives of many thousands of Greeks? It's a question to you, Mr. Xanthi. And I conclude by saying: Do you know that the government signed a decision on 4 August 2017, which exempts the inhabitants of all islands with a population of less than five thousand inhabitants, from passing their cars to CTEO? Are we going crazy? So nobody's gonna think, if not the permanent residents, the tourists? Is it possible for a country to walk with such changes, exceptions and short-sighted policies? Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will become wiser than what has been heard in this Chamber. I would say to you, at last, that you should turn your attention to the really prerequisites, and as my friend Psarian says, we are at some point a normal European country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd Kavalas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going with Mr. Meikopoulou, MP of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, can I have the floor to develop the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Micopulus, excuse me, but you will take the floor after the Minister speaks. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u342	These are two amendments. The first amendment concerns the NOME system. The amendment actually clarifies things. I'm going to say it very exemplarily. The NOMEs participate three categories of enterprises. Those who have been participating for too long and have been present on the Greek market, those who are in some instances old but do not have a presence on the Greek market, and the new companies that go through the system from now on. What this NOME amendment says is that young people who enter the system should testify to a business plan which says how they will develop in the domestic market. They can export like everyone else. In the subsequent tenders the RAE will be checked if the business plan is maintained and if they have a satisfactory presence on the Greek market. That is the one amendment. The second amendment concerns auctions. As you know, there is a series of auctions a year. Each invitation to tender shall be adjusted by the percentage of the quantity auctioned according to the progress of the percentage of PPC on the retail market. As long as we refrain from targeting, that is every time we have 75%, for example if we have 82% of PPC this year, we adapt the quantity of NOME to reduce PPC's market share eventually. What the amendment says, instead of adjusting to take place for one auction, will be in two auctions. Its central idea is very simple, i.e. to facilitate sharp fluctuations and make them more smooth. These are the two amendments. There are also a number of legislative improvements, which as a whole are too many. It's too big a bill, as you know. It's about thirty-five legislative improvements. They're all grammar or syntax. I don't want to stand on any of them. If you want me to read to you some exemplary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u343	Share them, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u344	All right, I'll split them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u345	I would like to inform the House that Monday's sitting will not begin, as planned, at 12 noon. It'll start at 10:00. We talked about it this morning, I'm just repeating it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u346	How many ministers and MPs are still to speak today, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u347	It's planned to speak two more ministers. Please, Mr. Meikopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of how one approaches current political and economic topicality, I think that in a very short time, we will all find ourselves in a few months' time - as a political system I speak, not as a government on the one hand and a opposition on the other - in front of a very specific event. It concludes the current financial programme, the current financial adjustment programme. None of the institutions, according to the publications, want to repeat or conclude a new loan contract if you like, so on the one hand we will be called on to consider and, on the other hand, to develop Greece next day. That is what I think we should be concerned about as a political system. Financially now I think that we are at a very good level, as well as the international bond interest rate is at 2006 levels, but also the five-year and two-year bonds are at a very good level, according to what the institutions say and what the international press says. In fact, the strategic objective, namely that in order to be able to talk about Greece on the next day, we should have uninterrupted and smooth access to the international borrowing markets at a low interest rate, is increasingly close. So this is the outline on which we will all be invited to place the next very next period. And I think there is a common point, and I do not think that the description of Greece of the next day goes beyond life and the particular government, but goes beyond any micro-party disputes. So the specific multi-project with the latest prerequisites lies in a specific roadmap, which is very specific for the next few years. With the closure of the third assessment of the new exit to the markets and the creation of a safe and clean exit pillow for the country on the market, we have the debate on the concrete medium-term measures on the thorny debt issue. The de-escalation of Greek bonds must certainly continue and start as quickly as possible so that in August 2018 the country can borrow from international money markets and not borrow from the state budgets of the Member States of the European Union. If we specialize in one of these provisions in the Multifibre Arrangement, I think that we are very much avoiding what we have become used to in the past, namely provisions which were strictly financially negative for the whole of the social body, and I dare say that there are provisions with strong reform this time. Let us therefore address the question of simplifying procedures, as regards the authorisation of setting up an undertaking or extending the existing one. Let us refer to the provisions which form an improvement in the business environment by developing organised business parks and supporting the appropriate infrastructure, where business and industrial activities are concentrated, and the aim is at last to reduce the costs of operating companies, to encourage partnerships, the creation of integrated value chains and the transfer and diffusion of technology. I come to another provision which requires reference, as I now speak on a personal level, mainly concerns my electoral prefecture, Magnesia. I would like to mention the modernisation and concentration of the quarry legislation and the simplification, if you like, of the work, of research and exploitation of quarry minerals, which will enhance rationalisation and contribute to the uniform treatment of procedures and of time for the leases and authorisations of quarries. With the Minister, Mr Stathakis, we have been with the latitudes of the Pelion region too many times. Finally, a time-consuming problem was resolved. I think that this solution which has been given and rational is but will also lead people back in to work. You know very well, Mr Stathakis, that it is an activity that gives life to an area. I do not want to dwell on any other provisions. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a wider position on the work part. There has been a harsh criticism over the last few days, with regard to the events of this government in the working part. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are judging us in the view that we have not succeeded in restoring collective bargaining on the one hand, and on the other hand we have not managed to restore the minimum wage to the levels we have described, that is a reality. And you know very well, as much as you counter-treat about the opposite that the jobs were the descendant of a compromise, which took place in the summer of 2015. But is this government's approach so disastrous at the workplace? So is the government's positive action to regain employment disastrous, with unemployment falling from 27% to 20%? I am serious about the argument that even beforehand the permanent recruitment balance, with positions of half-employment, was negative. But there is one quality element, ladies and gentlemen, that at the end of 2017, for the first time after seven, eight years, we have more permanent recruitment than the recruitment of half-employment. Is this not a quality element, which should also be strengthened by the government in order to further increase permanent jobs? Is it a right-wing policy that about EUR 1 billion has been allocated to aid programmes of seventy-seven thousand unemployed, of which twenty-one thousand have returned to work? Is it disastrous to precede the payment of employees for six months in the ranking order of creditors for bankrupt enterprises? I would remind you that it was the first Memorandum of Understanding as to who will be paid for in bankruptcy operations. Is that catastrophic? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two words on the issue of the notorious strike provision. Is that a neutral provision? No, it's not a neutral provision. Obviously, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, I have gone a little further than that if we had a society with strong politicalisation and participation, yes, such a provision could also be a product of dialogue between the progressive parties of the political system. Having lived, however, what the abstention of workers from the trade unions means, I will say that it is a provision which will create additional problems. I will not go into the argument that actually applies to exactly which unions it includes and it is about. They've heard too many times. But should this government be judged by the need for such a provision? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What did we have at the negotiating table? We had the Lock - out, we had the right to retreat, we had the redundancies of trade unions, all of these demands that were supported by BSE, so also by a portion of anti-population, and while they photograph the Civic Anti-population, they were rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u349	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u350	We therefore have a compromise provision and I hope that this government will create room for it to be taken back. I'm not trying to look good. But what I would like to mention for once is that, at budgetary level, we are doing well and we are taking credit for the completion of the evaluation. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is to translate this positive sign into social everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u351	Mr Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u352	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think most of those who are following this debate will agree with us that we are currently experiencing historic moments these days, because this bill is, in our view, the view of counter-population, the most flagrant collapse of the left-wing account of a so-called left-wing government, because you who would abolish the memorials with an article and a law, in the end, seem to need four hundred articles to close a painful assessment. You who, as a opposition, were protesting and threatening gods and demons, if the parliamentary procedures were not perfect, are now bringing to Parliament within two and three days an endless list of measures, which you obviously want no MEP not to read, no one to discuss, no one to think, just to come, to vote and to leave. As if not all of this were enough, you who, as an opposition to many cases, have, in other cases, favoured or tolerated so many pre-conflicts of your political opponents, you who have often taken the lead in the policy of munchas in Syntagma Square, now you are the one who sees your ministers, accepting live broadcasts of political activism and syndicism. It was sincerely sad - I think - that the image of a new and sympathetic politician and a more experienced one, standing helpless and completely uncomfortable against the trade unionists of the FYROM. This experience is obviously the end of a delusion. You know, the arrogance of power seems to have lured you from suffering and becoming victims. I think it is time we all realised in this Chamber that you are no longer the radical leftists, but ultimately the allies and interlocutors of the troika. But it is not just the changes in the question of strikes that stand out from your bill. Before making a brief reference to what concerns my subject, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, I would also like to dwell on another measure, which I think has been discussed several times in this Chamber, on the issue of grants to the multitude and third parties. I am standing here because I think that many in this Chamber have said clearly that this policy is both short-sighted and nationally irresponsible. These benefits were not ruffles, they were not favors, they were not just social policy. It was the self-evident policy we had to pursue. Our homeland is getting old, and - even worse! - We all know the population is shrinking. Death, as the statistics show, will overcome births. Here it is very important to remember what the New Democracy Government had done in 2006 when it voted for Law 3454/2006. It was a law that gave important motives for multitude families. What was the result? As a result of the three-year period 2007-2009, there was a marked increase in births by about eight thousand annually. What does that mean? That a law must be judged in the long term. So these incentives are the minimum return we should pay to these people. It's not a tip, it's not a luxury. It's necessary. I now come very quickly to the three provisions of the plan, which are part of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and to which I should like to refer. The first is the one under Article 217 with which KESPATE is created, a Central Electronic Project Monitoring System. And this is why the Government once again creates a confusion, because while with Law 4013 the Central Electronics Register had already been introduced, through which all the necessary data for electronic monitoring of studies, procurement projects, comes today the Government and creates another structure, the KISPATE, another new monitoring system this time only for public works. The result and question is that here we have a conflict of two similar monitoring systems. This article will allow me to say that it is written in hand. And the prediction we make is that it will cause problems in its implementation. A second article on which I would like to stand is Article 218 for the College of Special Counters for Public and Private Works. The problem with public works is not the question of auditors. The problem with public works, in our view, is supervision. Instead of doing something about it, the government, that is to say, going through the supervision of public works and private engineers, creates a new College of Experts. And to know what we say in this Chamber,'measure' means to measure quantities and prices of a project and we now have a provision that provides for a House but does not mention anything about what it will do, in what context it will do and how it will do it. So we wait with interest for the ministerial decisions that will clarify the law. But this shows the curiosity in the way you legislate. I'm closing with Article 219a. This reduces the time in the tourist offices and in the rental offices for rental of cars with drivers from six to three hours. We hope and wish, Minister, since you are here, that the transport bill, which we have been waiting for for four months, will finally come to Parliament every week. Then we'll look at all this in detail and every scoundrel will sit on his bench. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, do you read today's bill, give him a series of questions: Your racing and your left-wing parchments that went? What happened to your movement payouts and what happened to the endless conversations in the squares of the indignant, in which your top ministers participated? How will you vote for these measures and at the same time treat your voters? Society voted for you the first time to get the country out of the memorials and the second time it voted for you to manage the memorandum you brought with a social person. But what are you doing? You bring more memorials, you vote every three and a little harder, measures which no other government is, the truth is, it would not dare and it would not be possible to propose that it pass through this Parliament and lead the country to the absolute deadlock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, too. For you to know the order, ladies and gentlemen, two Members will now speak and then Mr Spirtz will speak. Mr Stavros Arachovitis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the sealing of the closure of the third evaluation, a process that brings us ever closer to return to normality, both in national and European, after August of this year. It shows the correlations of forces during the negotiation process all this time. Starting, now, with Section II of the bill, the part concerning the provisions of the Ministry of Economy and Development, in Article 121 we have an amendment to the recent Law 4497/2017 on commerce. I would like to stress as positive the fact that the amendment excludes agricultural producers who can now directly issue new permits to operate in any form of rural trade and do not have to wait for the information system to be put into operation. This is one of the positives of the bill. We also welcome in the draft law a new framework for control and market surveillance. More specifically, this is a holistic view of the treatment of controls by establishing uniform principles and procedures for market surveillance and controls. Common tools and methodology are introduced for all audit bodies and the rights and obligations of both the audited and the auditor are clearly defined, thereby ensuring transparency and transparency of procedures. It is a positive signal for both professionals and the new generation that support for business compliance is introduced as a basic principle instead of the repressive logic of the past, an outdated and inefficient model that the state wanted as a punishment. However, on this point I would like to mention the controls on consumer safety, and in particular on food. There is a very important category of controls, which over time is guided by a very clear European regulatory framework. It concerns food of both plant and animal origin. The experience of the application of Community export controls has already been gained. It is because in Europe, the sensitivity to the protection of human health and the environment has been a cornerstone of policies for decades. The imported framework should therefore not be different and should also apply to the European regulations already in force. This is how it should be made clear - with reference to the fact that the European framework prevails, if that is more stringent in terms of the incoming provisions of the draft law. In Section A on the provisions of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, we welcome the establishment of the single body "Greek Register" which will be a public body in the form of the legal person governed by public law. The ownership and the related management of property data must belong - and it will belong - exclusively to the state, and that makes the bill. The new single operator "Greek Register", as in force in all European countries, has been public and was already provided for in 1998. There was provision in the legislation. The question arises as follows: why have you not done so so far, gentlemen of the Opposition? Did you not want the benefits of setting up such a public body, a single body? Why did you not want a uniform application of the rules on immovable property, which is guaranteed by uniform supervision? Is it because transparency and effectiveness are unwanted words? In Section IV, the quorum arrangement for proclaiming the strike of the primary unions has unfortunately emerged in a field suitable for allergy reactions and demonstrations of inconsistency from all sides of the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the anti-government demands of their institutions and local expressions, however, which were moving in the sense of the most extreme neoliberal conception, it is now definitively closing the part of the trade union law. Let me remind you of some of the requirements, because we are used to forget about them, which have been successfully disguised. We had the requirement to establish the compulsion, the lock out. We had the requirement to change the time of warning to declare the strike. We were required to introduce the general clause on the dismissal of trade union officials, but also to reduce the time of trade union leave. So all this has been rejected, and the only change that has been agreed is the quorum rule - and only the quorum - at the general assemblies of primary unions when convened in order to make a decision on strike. But this also does not concern unions that are wider region or even part of Greece and which do not involve secondary organizations and a higher trade union organisation. What, though, is the New Democracy's even delayed counter-proposal? In the New Democracy, not the quorum, but the agreement on a strike should be taken from fifty plus one of the financially settled members. The scope of the regulation in the New Democracy should also apply to the trade unions in the whole of Greece and to the widest extent. And that's what's disgusting. The New Democracy cannot or does not wish to hide, ladies and gentlemen, that it remains the most loyal ally of the employer. Faithful or excellent are now competing with the IMF in copying the manuals of intact neoliberalism. Finally, I would like to mention two words on children's benefits. This is where we should all stand by the fact that in the budget of the Ministry of Labour's Solidarity Section the total amount to support family allowances is increased by 40%. It was still absolutely necessary, and the election of the previous system of awarding these allowances for the benefit of categories now receiving far greater allowances. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In thirty seconds' time, Mr President. Our proclaimed objective was - and remains - to reverse the trend of population decline and ageing, but also to eliminate child poverty. The increase in the budget and fairer distribution is a real conquest. And, of course, the lifting of any loss to redistribution is our constant anxiety and effort. I hope that whatever failures exist, they will be dealt with directly and effectively in the best way for those who suffer them. Thank you very much and know we're going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, too. We are on our way with Mr. Cassidy Congressman of the Golden Dawn. Please, Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u356	The Greek people are witnessing a constant, lasting attempt, a genocide plan through two parallel ways: economic destruction and ethnic devastation. Another government maniac of the international tactical system, with another bill that comes in English and is translated into Greek, a bill of a thousand five hundred pages, a bill of four hundred articles, which was distributed to the government MPs to read in just seventeen hours. That is to say, in order to vote for it, by acting as instruments of international turmoil. We have new bodies of extermination measures and sound taxation, which have a unique objective: the destruction of the Greek economy. The tax-free, in the end, will be down to 5,700 euros. The aim of this measure cannot under any circumstances be any economic development. On the contrary, it is the destruction of the lower economic strata with the ultimate aim of deporting them from the Greek territory. The ultimate objective of this policy is the displacement of the Greeks from the Greek territory, the glaring of the Greek migration flows to the countries of the European Union and the settlement of Greece by strangers. It is no coincidence that the most important article, the most disastrous to our home country article of this legislation, Article 214 and then Article 215, which eliminates multiple families. We have 33% reduction in multi-Technical allowances - and this is a disaster - with a view to the genocide of the Greeks. The government beats multitude families with a ultimate goal in the near future not to have Greeks in Greece. Unlike your own policy, the Golden Dawn policy, the Golden Dawn program provides for an increase in the luxury benefits for Greeks and for the abolition of allowances and dividends for foreigners. Because, as we have seen recently, the infamous'social dividend' took it, in huge numbers, foreigners, illegal immigrants and Roma. We will abolish these dividends, these allowances for foreigners and give only benefits to Greeks. We have continued the plan of disarmament of Greece through the privatization of the Greeks. I am more specific: Articles 207 to 209, ‘Electronic auctions’. The first residence of the Greeks, for 500 euros, will be passed on to foreign funds, to foreign groups, to the famous "market buns". And that's becoming almost indiscreet. After all, that was why Tsipras was chosen from the international turf. That is why it was promoted in 2015 so much by the pimps of the information. That's why we saw Tsipras in 2015 on all the channels say it's going to abolish HIS and taxation. He said, "No house in the hands of a banker." With this picture of the'skins of information', in a fine partnership with the'skins of international tachypically', we are today leading to this disgrace of the left government, which grants Greeks' homes to foreign groups. And that's all done indiscriminately. This was done very specifically, of course, by the unwilling Dieselbloom, who said: "We could not find better servants of our interests from Tsipras and Tsakalotos. Since they took over the administration of Greece and the Greek economy Tsipras and Tsakalotos, things have been as good as possible for us." And he meant international turf. The aim of this policy is the destruction of Greece. The aim of this policy is for the Greek people to become a minority within their home country. In the face of all this is the Golden Dawn programme, it provides for tax exemptions for all children, for a large number of tons not to be taxed, for the first place to be protected, for the Greeks to be given priority at work through the introduction of special contributions for companies wishing to employ foreigners, a job subsidy rather than unemployment. Instead of unemployment benefits to be subsidised by the Greek citizens, who work so that the cuts are high and the Greek family chief can feed his family. Of course, as I said before, the most important step will be the exclusion of foreign and Roma from multi-text allowances, from dividends and social benefits, so that money - we say it, we separate it - go to Greek citizens. Adopt incomprehensible for the multiple families: As you did with the incomprehensible state funding of the parties, which we see - PASOK and New Democracy - to owe 420 million and increase the incomprehensible proportion of state funding for these parties, SYRIZA tells us that it is incomprehensible for the multiple families and for the immediate confiscation of the property of the PASOK and New Democracy parties, as well as all the parties they owe to the Greek State. When we take over the rule of the country, to those who owe hundreds of millions to the Greek State, we will take their offices, cars, and even the air they breathe. Because the country was destroyed by the specific political groups now inclined to become not parties but 'cuts', but still theft of public money continues even through the state grant to these parties. By the way, I would say that Golden Dawn does not receive half of the euros of state funding from the State. We are, however, working perfectly well and have proved that the parties do not need funding. Greece's national wealth is also divested through this bill. In the superstition there are fourteen other DAKOs, neural companies, Greek energy via PPC, water through EKDAP, transport through OSCE. In other words, we have divestment of companies that produce money for the Greek public, profitable companies and, above all, companies that are active in the neuro-algal energy sector that go through foreign hands because this is the best way to make the country a protectorate of foreign forces. In parallel with this, foreign crimes are immunityed in the administration of the HICP. Instead of going to prison, the TECs for the twenty-eight Public Real estate case, you provide them with immunity by law. And that proves that you now want to turn the country into a state of protectorate of foreign forces. I will conclude with the great message of day, that Macedonia is only Greek and any other act by this House is considered an act of national moderation. And I will answer the account of this Stalinist technocrat who is the Minister of Foreign Affairs and says that the problem is over and we have to solve it. What does he mean to solve it? Should the Skopje enter NATO at the request of the Americans? This is a solution to Skopje. For Greece, there is no problem, and so the only energy that Greece must do at the moment is to continue the veto regime. veto the entry of Skopje to NATO, so that the centrifugal tendencies within this state that will eventually lead to a war between Slavs and Albanians and then Greece as a sovereign power in the Balkans, then the Greek forces as forces of stability, then the Greek army will enter Skopje and finally release this eternal Greek land of Macedonia, which is occupied. That's the message of the Golden Dawn, and that's what I'm gonna close. Macedonia alone! And our position is unnecessarily unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u357	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and two teachers - their attendants from the 3rd Kavalas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexandros Haritsis has the floor to support his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we are tabling some legislative improvements. These are, in particular, word recasts and some corrections, for better legalisation, as they emerged from the debate that preceded yesterday and the day before yesterday in the relevant committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u359	We have also tabled an amendment. This is an addition to Article 167 to combat phenomena of unfair competition and to the protection of traditional bread. It's the bakery article. He is pleased with this addition and the law, in our view, call from the Federation of Bartenders, as was expressed in the hearing of the bodies here yesterday in the House. We therefore welcome this request with the specific addition to Article 167. I think he has already shared with the Members. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u360	Mr Christos Spirtzis has the floor. Since it was not previously, when I said it in the Chamber, I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure are even for the Prime Minister 12 minutes. So adjust your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u361	I will try to complete quickly, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by listening to the sitting of this House today, a few months before we come out of the adventure of the old-fashioned forces, we can once again confirm the findings of recent years. First of all, the plight of the neoliberal forces for the end of the memorials and the misfortune of the so-called reformist forces for the end of the memorials from the current government of Alexis Tsipras, for the exit from the adventure you have put us. It's a problem for you. We understand you. We feel you. You will lose two main pillars of your policies: The alibi of the memorandum is one, to pass the most antisocial and anti-social you would like, as in the past. And the "under the table" agreement with the lenders for the implementation of your own policies even the three years we have spent as a government. The second finding is the continuing distortion of what is included not only in the current draft law, but also in the government's action, by specific media in the New Democracy. Today, listening to the MPs and officials of the New Democracy, you think you are listening to specific journalists from a specific television and radio station. I cannot, after this attitude, wish the New Democracy success in the canal competition. You get permission, we don't have any trouble with you. The third finding is that you diligently hide what is good is contained in the draft law. No references for good. How many public companies don't even belong to the supranational? No mention of that! Until yesterday, you told the workers that they would be privatized, that they were dismantled, that these companies were finished. You remember here, at the hearing of bodies, which you called the CCT - you didn't even enter the supranational area - the "ATTIC MEETRO", the OSE, the subsidiaries of the OSE. Nothing, not a word! I like that. So we, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and we have negotiated and negotiated every word with the lenders. That's why the Greek society and the Greek economy have breathed. The provisions that are in that logic concerning the Transport Ministry will be developed in a few minutes. You also didn't mention a word. Something went wrong with Mr. Hatzidakis in the logic of distortion. I'll see you later. Mr. Karamanlis, who's here, has a few questions. I'll explain them to him. In this draft law, therefore, we have the proof of a democratic approach to and resolution of chronic and distorting pathogens, which caused many obstacles to both the market and society: Writing, non-transparent operation of bureaucratic and control mechanisms. We'll explain them one by one. Article 216 removes restrictions on the exercise of the activity of road assistance, taking into account the country's intense insularity and providing for the minimum quality criteria for doing so without deterring new businesses. What happened to road safety? We ask you, Mr Karamanlis, as you are the relevant department manager, as well as Mr Hatzidakis, who has served in the Ministry of Transport: You, who supposedly fought for the opening of the professions - battles! - and you did studies with IOBE when Mr Stournaras was there, is that what you missed? Did you forget that, too? They were obviously not the mechanics, lawyers, taxis, carers, they were the big insurance companies. So, there you made a few discounts on who can exercise road safety. So we come here so we don't get any discounts. This is the real opening up not of the professions, but of the oligopolists, of the activities that have served you all these years, so that every citizen of the country can act on them. First of all, I would like to make a general remark. All these articles were part of bills that were to come to Parliament and due to the commitments entered into the bill. In Article 217, then, - it was part of the draft law on public works, it has come into consultation and anyone can see it - we create the Central Electronic Project Monitoring System, the KISPATE, where, for the first time, electronic monitoring of the execution - rather than the contract or competition - of a public or private project, is possible, with obvious aims. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the Members of the New Democracy - we will say about them - they are talking from other parties about a new development model. What tools? How will we know what works are done in the country when we don't have such tools? How will we ensure the public interest if we do not know that every municipality is carrying out these projects, in each region, in each ministry? How can we have a reliable monitoring system, when we do not even know the machines in the country, whether they work in the first public work or in the second private one? KIMDIIS, Mr. Karamanlis, is to monitor the contracts. It is not to monitor how the works are done, who are the subcontractors, who are the craftsmen, who are the craftsmen, who are the machines, so that the Greek people's money is not spent to the right and left. So that is what is happening with this article. You should be applauding this in particular, and you also want a reform, supposedly, in the country. But you don't want this to happen. That's the system. This system will finally ensure - because it is interconnected with everything else - that we know which contractor does what, with whom subcontractor, who does what and who others cooperate, who are involved in public works and who are involved in private projects, so that we do not have a distortion of legislation. Article 218 provides for the establishment of a Special Body of Public and Private Projects. This is done for uninterrupted and time-consuming assistance in carrying out the necessary measurements and public works and private projects. What does Mr Karamanlis say? He says: "Well, do you do the Board of Governors? Do you not have the private sector oversee public projects?’ Thank you very much for confirming what we say, that you do not want public technical services or public services in general, to ensure the public interest. No, we're doing a college because you handed us out technical services with zero engineers or few engineers. That the mechanic civil servant who can't, he can't have the office to say we want to get two counts to help us. To be able to not only trust the contractor or his engineer, but to get from this House a meter so that he doesn't pay the private work for free money or more money, more quantities. Aren't you concerned about these issues? I'm really surprised. Number of operators have between zero and two technicians. Okay, you did this. That's it. The degradation of the Greek public and of the services took place, along with you. In Article 219 we prefer a transitional period for tests for driving licences. There will be a comprehensive draft law, and that is why there is it. Article 219A reduces the minimum rental term for private car rentals with a driver from six to three hours. This is where Mr Hatzidakis dared to speak for the three hours. Mr. Hatzidakis and gentlemen of the New Democracy, everyone knows your good work at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I need a minute. We can't remember the OSE. A few months ago state aid cases of 15 billion from the OSE were deleted with our own efforts. We cannot remember your "good" work at Olympics, OSTH, Athens Urban Transport, in legislation. I would generally suggest that you do not make any reference to transport. You insist. It's all right, let's insist. There are several aspects that need to be raised. The first concerns cabs, cars and companies that circumvented national and European legislation. You have put in place six hours and all the framework so that the legislation that you have adopted with driver rental never applies. You have never made the ministerial decision on driver characteristics in the specific activities. We took it off. You've never put labels on these cars. We made it. You had not even predicted a record of who they are active, which companies, which cars, which drivers. You left companies that did not even have a seat in the country or others that had their share-based offshore composition - which is your weakness - to be active without paying a euro in our country. You've broken up and dismantled the automobile profession, as well as everything else, and you speak! Your executives advertised how many young people will live as car hire drivers. Your President - when we opened the issue - gave a lecture on a particular company, 'Taxibeat'. You are the 'Uber' party - 'Taxibeat'. You have told us that we are against the new technologies and when the European Court of Justice came to its decision, you hid yourself. You denounce - as you distort everything - the European Commission and the court that they are against new technologies. And now - to see what will happen in the next few days - that the draft law is in the General Accounting Office of the State and is then introduced into Parliament, to see what you will say about all this and much more. And finally, the last article concerns the service that will make the contest for the electronic toll system, so that we do not delay. To conclude, gentlemen of the New Democracy, I will say that we do not fold the map like your President to find common points between Crete and Macedonia. Because we understand what you do not understand, that this will never happen. We are opening the map of the country and completing the work you never wanted to complete, exiting the memoranda, ending the committee, recovering our assigned national sovereignty and together building the rule of law and equitable development. I would also like to put forward a legislative improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u362	And I thank the Minister. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor for a minute to answer Mr Theocharopoulos's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the conditions for opening the auction process, they are not in any way affected by this arrangement. As the public auctions have been doing so far, they continue to do so. All that's done is to harmonise the Public Revenue Receipts Code with the Code of Civil Procedure. In particular, I should like to mention something that we all know about this: there is no auctioning of a debtor's property, the first and only residence. This continues again for public auctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u364	Based on what arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u365	How do we legislate?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u366	Based on Article 975 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u367	What does Article 975 say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u368	Article 975 concerns the auctions made when it is the only public debtor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u369	But that's not for the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u370	From there on, as regards the value of the properties by which the auction is held, this is done with the commercial value of the properties in accordance with Law 4472/2017. That's how it goes on now. For the privileged ranking of the State, the Public Receipts Code is in line with the Code of Civil Procedure. Whatever changes will be made to the Code of Civil Procedure will also be followed by the public, because so far we have had to make changes and harmonise ourselves with the existing articles. I would also like to mention some of the elements relating to public auctions, because there has been too much spice. For 2016 there were only eleven auctions from the DU, eight in Attica and three in the Pella Prefecture, for debts from 733,000 euros to 8,171,000 euros. Also, in 2017 they became eight, four in the Thessaloniki Region and four in the Piraeus Region, again for very high amounts of debt. In the same way, the public will continue to do the auctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u371	But your order tells you about 500 euros or more, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u372	For 500 euros and over are the confiscations of the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u373	But how are they going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u374	The public auctions shall take place on another ground. This is not the case. Another confiscation by the Greek public and another auction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u375	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, I have a question, a proposal for Mrs Papanatsiou and Mr Tsakalotos, who is here, to perhaps come as a legislative improvement. Look, I asked two specific questions on two very central issues in relation to the different procedure provided for by the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Receipt of Public Revenue. One is the protection of the first main residence where there is no explicit provision in the Public Revenue Code to prevent it from being taxed or the insurance fund. Add it as a legislative improvement, that at this point, the protection of first residence and the price of the objective value, which I told you a moment ago, is also equal to these two points for first residence. Because otherwise, he's going to be a legislative void. That is the proposal I have made to you. I told you before as a question. They may want your services to look for it and Monday morning to come and answer. But there has to be no gap.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u377	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u378	Aren't Members going to intercede?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u379	You'll follow after.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u380	If one Minister goes after another, there's no time left for the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, if they want to precede, I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u382	If the Minister wishes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when he asks for the floor, we must give him the floor. But if the Minister wants us to find an interim solution, I would be happy to do so. Mr. Chakatte, can one or two Members speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u383	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u384	Two Members will speak, then, and then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Skourikos, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confess to you that I am very moved by the New Democracy's sensitivity to the left profile, the left soul, the left mark of SYRIZA! There are so many reports by the Members of the New Democracy and so persistent that I feel that there is a drama in the New Democracy, an anguish ahead if SYRIZA is not so left. In fact, a previous speaker has announced to us that he is not SYRIZA his opponent, but his opponent is the JRC. We respect it. We don't want to get in between. Everyone chooses the opponent who suits him. I'm afraid this whole story is some advice from some communications agents, because that's how you work. Tell him to find something more original, more new. That's enough of your anxiety, thanks for your interest. So when we find ourselves at that point where the exit from the long period that has troubled our country and our people is visible, a period that has been prepared and imposed by disastrous policies of the past, we now come to the vote on the draft law on the closure of the third assessment, and we must see the mixture of the policy that includes the draft law that we are discussing. The concrete policy mix in this draft is structural reforms absolutely necessary. One of these is the implementation of the National Stock Exchange, as it has been said too many times. We are perhaps the last country in Europe that has not completed the ratification of the Stock Exchange, since New Democracy handed over 1% of the country's stockholders. What have we achieved with the specific provisions for the new body that will be called upon to finish the Stock Exchange in our country? One very important first, that all the jobs of all the workers who work either in the Land register or in the mortgage offices are secured. Secondly, sanctions are being speeded up, namely the finalisation of the register, which will be completed by 2020. Let me speak about one or two provisions concerning the Ministry of Culture and I consider it important. We now have the establishment of the compulsory deposit of a Report of Analytical Archaeological Documentation for major projects, such as the construction of marinas, major commercial centres, etc., since until now there has been no institutional obligation of the Ministry of Culture in cases of major projects to inform investors of possible antiquities in the field they are attempting. Now in such cases, that is, for investments of more than 20m euros, the Greek State through the Ministry of Culture must, of course, inform the investor that there are preached monuments or archaeological sites which permit or permit use with limited or non-structured structures. An example is the Greek, the Hersonissos of Agios Kosmas, which has been committed as an archaeological site and remains unstructured. Thus, growth is facilitated with respect for the country's archaeological wealth. In addition, this bill introduces the fixed-term staff register for the performance of archaeological work. This provision establishes a Register of Personal Archaeological Works with a fixed-term private-law contract supported by an online application and a database in which candidates will be registered from the outset and to which the data of candidates will be transparently recorded. Full implementation of the register is expected to result in a reduction of the relevant years by avoiding repeated submission and repeated verification of the same supporting documents. In other words, we have a reduction in administrative burdens on the services involved, a strengthening of transparency and objectivity and a uniform application of the recruitment process across the country. I would like to say two words on broadcasting issues. The government through the Ministry of Digital Policy thinks it is moving at very high speed. In response to the need to adapt to current technological developments, it is moving to digital technology by licensed digital radio. In the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, 12 000 people are broadcasting five hundred radios. In Greece, there are a thousand broadcasters, a ratio that should concern us. Do all these radios work in accordance with the rules they are obliged to operate? The Ministry pledged that the transition would be gradual, so that with the comfort of preparing all for this new era. I say this because the make news gives and they take: "They'll shut you down, they'll throw you down in the Cabinet" and all the relevant stuff that we live on every day. Municipal radios will be passed on to a next licensing phase, as the Minister told the committees, as well as the radios of the Church. The landscape will be dismantled, ladies and gentlemen, and for technical reasons, since a transmitter for digital radio serves from nine to twenty-seven of them. For analogues each station needs its own transmitter. It is obvious, therefore, that the benefits to human health by reducing radiation, in which citizens are particularly exposed to antenna parks. With the reduction of antennas located in the mountains, the environment is protected, while radio users enjoy a clearer signal than a large available radio spectrum. With the passage to digital radio, new jobs are being created in a work area with high unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, limited time does not allow me to refer to many other and positive points of the bill. What we have seen here, waiting to hear proposals from the Opposition is a tired contrast to everything, a tired and monotonous repetitive counterpopulation, which harms itself, but also to the joint effort to get out of the nightmare that the country has experienced in recent years. So I urge you to vote in favour of the bill, because it is positive and will help us to get out of the memorandums and the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u387	I, too, thank you, Mr Squirrel, particularly for the consistency in time. Please, Mr. Screkas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Today's multi-project submitted for discussion in the Greek Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, coincides with the completion of three years of governance of this place by Mr Tsipras and his Government. The reasonable question you should answer, instead of being able to deal with the opposition and the opposition parties, you, the MPs - SYRIZA and ANEL - are whether, in the end, in these thousands of pages of legislation which, obviously, you will vote with your two hands on Monday - contains even a provision that verifys even a pre-election promise and abolishes even a tax from those you have imposed over the last three years, if it cancels even one charge, of what you have, unfortunately, imposed on Greek citizens, freelance professionals, engineers, lawyers, farmers, farmers and households. However, I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that there is not one such provision in all this bill, nor one that cancels all these taxes that you have made over the last three years. On the contrary, I listened very carefully and listened very carefully to the ministers of the government celebrating the improvement of the economy, against many "take-offs" of the Greek economy. And my question is simple, ladies and gentlemen: I'm sorry, do you live in another world, do you live in Greece? Don't you see and you don't hear about the thousand seizures on the day that they are imposed on Greek citizens who can't pay the taxes you've imposed on them? Don't you see and you don't hear about the thirty thousand new debtors coming and added to the old, because they can't pay the taxes you have imposed? Do you not see and hear about the debts of more than EUR 1 billion every month from these brutal taxpayers, who cannot and do not have to pay the taxes you have imposed on them? Do you not see and read, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, that Greece has been a champion in the enforcement of taxes over the last three years, in increasing taxes between all developed countries of the world, and that Greece is the only country in the Eurozone, Mr. Ministers, which has been encroaching on the lists of corruption and bureaucracy, the only country that falls on the lists, is devastated among the Eurozone countries? Sure, how's Mr. Tsipras? The only thing he does is to continue to mock the Greek people by giving the opposite and benefits of poverty, which can not even replace what with his unjust left hand has primarily hoarded in multiples. The man who supposedly, if anything, would change the old, would dismantle the party state, who would protect public property - for example, as far as the register is concerned - in this multi-brand plan, comes through his government and creates a public company, with about a thousand employees, without mentioning what the cost is, without the cost being budgeted. You remove EKHA S.A., a limited company with the sole shareholder of the Greek State and you create a new huge public body, with around a thousand employees without budgeting the cost. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: do you not care to know how much this new public body will cost? Don't you care how much it costs? You close a company, you create a new organization, a universal successor. Shouldn't it be liquidated? Shouldn't there be a census? Aren't you interested in knowing what the obligations and rights are, which you will be inherited from the new organisation? Aren't you interested in knowing what the tens of millions of reserves are going to be made by this company, money by Greek taxpayers, which are supposed to be used to complete the realisation work? What about this money, Minister? Are they going to the barn public? Are they going to the public debt? Will you pay the salaries of Secretary-General, Special Secretaries, Deputys, which you create in this bill? Have you even prepared the slightest study to address the most problems that will arise in this transition and which will obviously lead to huge delays in Greece's already delayed realisation work? We know what you're doing. You are actually turning this over once again to the next two years because it will take at least two years to complete this transition, as you have done. As far as the quarry is concerned and here it is shown how you legislate and with what rhesphetological mood. I will give you one example only and I very much ask you to reply. In Article 45, listen to what you say: ‘the duration of the twenty-year contracts for public and municipal quarries may be extended only after agreement of the Parties. On the other hand, for the private quarries the extension may be carried out unilaterally by the hirer by means of a notarial act.’ I ask: why, Minister, is there a distinction between public and private quarries? Why are you discerning these two cases? Why are you discerning old and new leases? Why do you not, for example, define the self-evident extension to the maximum lease, at the most expensive price, if there is an objective and independent statement that contractual obligations are fulfilled? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u389	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u390	Is that justice? Is that how you're going to fight corruption? By putting in this bill small provisions, which effectively cultivate corruption by potential prostitutes, prosperous public officials, who can take an opportunity to gain their own benefits? Is that how you're hitting corruption? I would like to say one last thing, Mr President, which is very important. I read today's papers - and please, Minister, answer - that PPC, the Public Power Company, has lost around 80% of its stock exchange value over the last three years, the company you have granted hundreds of millions of euros over the last few days - about 400 million euros from the surplus, so that it can operate and pay its suppliers - the company that has huge problems having profitable uses and dealing with what you have imposed on it by means of the agreements with the institutions - to recall in energy auctions, in NOME energy below costs, and a large part of this is exported abroad - and please confirm whether it is true or not, that it is negotiating to buy energy from the neighbouring country of Skopje, an energy company that has just seventy customers. The question is simple: has this public company been assigned to a trusted consultant for the calculation of the reasonable price if it has to pay to buy an energy company in neighbouring Skopje, which is all it does is have seventy customers? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute and I'll be done. Secondly, are you aware that at the moment the Greek Government is negotiating with the government of Skopje, is it supposed to solve a serious national problem regarding the name of the neighbouring country? Is it possible, at the time the government is supposed to negotiate and this procedure is - is it supposed - on its peak, that the Greek Public Power Corporation will negotiate the acquisition of a Skopje company which, according to the publication - please confirm - is the highest political interest of the Deputy Prime Minister of Skopje? Do you know what that means? Have you completely misunderstood? Do you understand what a public company now means to negotiate to buy and pay money to a neighbouring Skopje company for seventy customers? Are these things true or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u391	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u392	If they do, what are you going to do? What do you intend to do, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber? This is how you understand the responsible governance and the negotiation of our national issues, in this way? The ship goes ungulate, you've lost the eggs and the passovers, and the boat goes for the rocks, unfortunately. Change. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr Minister, if this is the case, please confirm them or deny them, and please tell us what you are going to do about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u393	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Statakis, for how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u395	For two-three minutes, maximum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u396	Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u397	Thank you. There must be some clarification in order for the New Democracy to be able to place itself in the disputed issues on the Land register, on the mortgages, on the economic viability of a new organisation, which clearly says that it is self-financed. So I'm asking: is the register self-financed today on the basis of its revenue? 'Yes' is the answer. The mortgages are self-financed on the basis of their income? 'Yes' is the answer. Mr Juliarakis is not charged either by one institution or by the other. The two entities with the same revenues, with the same categories of revenue and, indeed, with a reduction in VAT that will have no VAT at all, will be united. It does not have the register, it does not have the money, it has the unpaid, but VAT will be abolished in unpaid amounts. So we have the same conditions, plus the same income for the two agencies. It's going to be self-financed, so there's no question at all. Second: Catholic successor or liquidation? I really expect you to tell us on Monday if you are in favour of the Catholic successor, who says this bill, or if you require the liquidation of the “ECSC S.A.”. Why did we choose the Catholic? For all the reasons you have implied, because the Catholic successor means that twenty-eight contracts signed by the "ECSC S.A." two weeks ago - I signed them - and all the activities carried out by the "ECSC S.A.", the next day they continue without any hindrance. No obstacle. If you put "ECSC S.A." in a winding-up process, it means that the period from the winding-up process to the smooth operation of the new organisation would create dozens of problems. There are no reasons why there are scandals that you want to hide, but in this case we have sworn accountants to capture the situation of 'ECSC S.A.', so we will have a clear picture that there is nothing wrong with it. Therefore, the Catholic successor is the best legal solution to facilitate the smooth operation of the new organization. And because it has been heard twice - and I am implied to say - that we are going to cover something with the Catholic successor, I would like the New Democracy to be placed directly if it agrees or disagrees with one option or another. The third issue concerns PPC. You're talking a lot of speculation. From what I understand, you don't have anything specific to tell us. So I will answer you when you have something very specific about this. In the parliamentary dialogue I am happy to reply to you about PPC's plans to extend to the Balkans, which is a very interesting subject. I hope that you, too, agree to the central idea of the strategy for PPC to expand to the Balkans. If you have anything more specific, we'll answer it another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u398	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u399	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u400	Mr Minister, if I understand what you said right now, you said that there was no difference in the economic front, in relation to the new body, etc. I'm referring to the register. Aren't you increasing all analogue transfer and registration fees by 0,25? Do you not increase the proportional fees for parental benefits and donations from 4,75; in other words, do you reach the impending cost? Does the Greek society not, then, be burdened with what you are proposing? How do you tell us it's neutral? Is the Greek citizen's pocket indifferent to the government, to understand it? Either the numbers I see are wrong, or that's what you're telling us are inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u401	Will you answer, Mr Stathakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u402	I'll be very clear. The law has marginal increases in some categories. The main volume is the same and VAT is reduced, which is an important part. Therefore, based on the final sum, it is not an organisation that will have an additional burden. I'll answer for the quarry I didn't answer before. Let me clarify it for once, although it's clear in the bill. The State, if the quarry is private, does not intervene or intervene. Private individuals, i.e. the leaser and the owner, etc., co-decide on the conditions they want for the entire period, before or during. For the public and municipalities, which you must protect the public's ability to negotiate there, we give forty years. And since it has so far been forty, but there are another thirty, so seventy, it is inevitable in forty years that there will be a renegotiation. Since the lessee was normally working - and the articles are detailed - and he has done his job well, we will enter a process of negotiation with the municipality or the state so that the new terms of the extension of the contract are mutually beneficial. We could not do this for seventy years in public and municipal, without anyone saying that we do not defend the public interest in this case. So, obviously, there is a difference between public and primary and private. By definition, there's a difference. We are called upon to protect the public. What is being said now is that, because in the 40 years' time it will be renegotiated - which I repeat must have been depreciated, and so on. - it's a cause of corruption. Is it possible to discuss this and say that it does not have the right for the public to renegotiate at forty and give seventy years directly? It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u403	Now Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, Minister for Finance, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u404	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, every time I speak in the Chamber, unfortunately the opposition, not us, things are a little better than the last time I spoke. I will not repeat their ten calamities. I'll only tell you things that happened after these reports. And I will say one of the financial, one of the consumption and one of the real economy. The spreads, when I spoke to the budget, were 4,01, today closed at 3,88. In consumption, for all those who did not decide to rent and be modern styles and not go to any shop or to any market, it was impressive. They have all noticed it and all that this Christmas has become very big improvements in consumption. But it's not just consumption. It's the real economy. On 2 January the new'market' came out. Let me tell you what'market' is, which is a very important indicator for processing, where they ask all companies: 'What are you waiting for? More sales or less sales next year?’ It has been a record since 2008 to increase orders in these businesses. So these three elements - which are only, I say, after the budget - show why things are better. Now at the institutional, political level, yesterday we had the EWG which was the debate on the prerequisites, which you wrote and said in summer in all the newspapers that it is 'in the air'. EWG went very well, the prerequisites are in a good order, so we are within the targets and within the timescale we have described you. This is a timetable that ends with the third assessment, which begins the debate on debt and debt clarification, so that we can get out of the markets, which will also discuss how much the dose will be, and whether there is a part of the buffers, these stocks, so that we can get out of the market, to discuss how we get out of this memorandum. Of course we have a bill in front of us that, for the first time, has no new measures, because as Mr Dimas agreed yesterday, the Prime Minister did not say that he has no new measures in 2018, but that there are no new measures in this bill. So now I need to talk about this bill, and I'm going to say a few things because I didn't hear much about it. In fact, I was left with the impression, listening to a lot of speeches from both the Democratic Incorporation and New Democracy, that there was some misunderstanding, an accident, your notes and colleagues instead of giving you the speech you had on this bill, they gave you the speech, either on the 2018 budget, either on the 2017 budget, or on the closure of the second assessment, but many things about this bill, really, I didn't hear. So, let's go talk about the things you really put in. I begin with the big issue of allowances, child poverty, the recycling of poverty by the partners of the JRC. That's what we solved. That we solved and explained... [[Laughers from the ward of the Communist Party of Greece]] I haven't told you. Listen first. I told you very clearly that we made an overview of expenditure and the decision of the Ministry of Finance was all this review, all the money we earned from waste, go to society and especially to children. We're closing this. So it can't be recycling. Secondly, the criticism we have experienced other than ignoring that seven hundred and thirty thousand families will have more money than ignoring what we have done for dutyfree, especially for three-twelves and tenants, except for ignoring how we have made the dividend, precisely to favour families with three, four and five children, except for ignoring what we do for daycare stations, which will obviously help families with three, four children, is a criticism that says - and that is what I raise hands - that we have done this bill for customer reasons. He says we're not interested in three-tiers and tenants. In fact, Mr Vorides told us that we have a dissatisfaction with the three-twelves and a multitude. It's hard for me to have three kids, but we're leaving it. He says we do it clientele. Aren't you telling me, when you decided to intervene on children's allowances and did nothing about the first and second children, and you gave them all to the three-tiers and multiples, was that not customer-friendly? When you decided that the second child would get twice the first child, but the third child would get six times the second, wasn't that a client? Was it a strategy? You have someone, I'm not saying progressive social scientist, but some scientist who says that the first child should take one, the second child to take two, and then go to twelve? Is that the policy you want? We repeat that what is being done is very important. It is very important that we finally have a policy on the child and working women. I'm sorry to talk about women like that, because it should normally be for men and women, but in this society we are. But all the studies we have said that the evil for children and the inequality created when they were twenty, thirty and forty years old began when they were five, six, seven and eight. It is therefore enormously important for the future of the country to have a policy for the child who is not exhausted, as Mrs Fotio has said, to the benefits. As we caught the client state, I now go to the rules that we put in the Register, the rules that we put on quarrying, the new control mechanisms to check the new licensing method, and I return a question raised by my colleague, George Stathakis, when he has made a very large analysis of the new energy framework. Which one do you commit to getting back? Which one do you think are the rules of Latin America, which are us and you will bring the new European rules? Tell us why I don't see grey belts. I see a framework that forty years you have supported with fanaticism and self-determination, grey areas so that things can be done under the radar and I see a government that comes and sets certain rules. Tell us directly which of these rules you will get them back, you who are Europeans. Another topic about the strike. I repeat the argument made by Mrs Ahtsoglou. There are eighty workers, 50% of whom were with Article 4 of the PASOK old who took it back, what Mr Vorides is now saying is that it takes 50% of the registered people to get through a strike. At a factory with eighty people, if the forty are involved, to make the strike, it must be 40-0. Then we can really say the abolition of the strike. With our change, the same example as eighty workers, if forty are present, is the strike going through 25-15: twenty-five in favour, ten against and five abstentions. If that's a problem, to make the strike as you say, then we have a huge problem. We must discuss why the labour movement has reached such a point that it cannot bring forty of the eighty workers to fight it and win a strike with 25-15.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u405	Because there are shifts, Mr. Chakalato!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u406	We need to discuss some of the problems that exist in legislation and have been imposed. We need to discuss unemployment which is causing a huge problem. But also to discuss trade union practices. And I'm talking to you, knowing that trade union practices, which we've inherited, and we're not coming from either the JRC or SYRIZA. But we must have such a serious debate. Let's not say we're pulling out the strikes. I now come to the supermarket, which we say will get that business and that other business into it. Let me note this: They're entering the superstate. They don't get into the TIAD. So it is not necessarily privatization. And Mr Vorides, who complimented me yesterday, is not here, telling me that, when he met me, I seemed to be a good boy and then I gave five years of parable with leftists and exaggerations, and now I come on the good road. But I'll tell Mr. Voridis that I'm returning the compliment. In the ten-15 years that will be in Anti-Population, he will say what he says. But when it comes to 15 years, it will return and support such businesses not to go for reconstruction, to upgrade, without a customer-led mediation state, but to privatization. He will return after this populist parenthesis and will say again what a good thing the auctions are and how they must go forward and what is this leftless reason that does not allow us to do the auctions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I'm going to need some time. In the case of auctions, we must have a much more sober discussion than the one we are doing. We should explain - as I have explained, when I brought you the amendment - what it means to be done electronically instead of physically. Let us explain that this alone does not change the priorities or the rules and does not spoil the protective cord that exists at all. If you think this protective cord isn't enough, if you think we should do something, we're here to talk about it. Let me tell you one more thing: there are no further distortions. Let us not say that on 31 December 2018 Katselis - Stathakis, because that is not the case. Because on the 30th of December, not having a court ruling, but having the application, you have the protection for thirty years of what the court decides. If that's not enough, let's talk about it. I come to the casinos and the specula that we give a new chance to borrow from casinos. The honourable Members have not said that they are so concerned about a loan of more than EUR 50 000. So we're talking about gambling people who have too much money. I don't think that's a problem for us. Let me point out that the two licenses in Mykonos and Santorini will be made with a legislative improvement in seasonal times. It will be eight months a year: March to October. We understand the issue of local societies. Thus the operation of casinos will only be allowed for the months with the largest tourist movement. The license in Crete has existed by law since 1994 and has not been granted. Florina's license has already been granted, so we're not making a substantial change. Let us say that rules are also in place here, which support the protection of jobs and attract more investment. This will operate more, so we will have more revenues with fewer taxes. Let me say something about the workers. Mr Stoyannides and other Members have raised the question of workers. As I told you before, when I testified the legal improvement if a casino closes for two, three months in winter, they will receive 70% of their earnings for these months. And that was a constant demand from the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, with all this, you can see that the agenda has changed. You can see it in the Reactions of Antipopulation. You don't even call it "full house" by opposition. The opposition that said "we don't have time to talk, you pressure us", when the Minister of Finance speaks - there are two Members of the New Democracy - does not show any special interest in the debate we are having. I'm leaving that in the band. Where is the first and second assessment that was made of the chaos with the debates and all the Members wanted to speak and were the chairs filled? It's not because you're aware that the agenda is changing, too. You have realised that you have a government seriously, a government that does not sell bubbles, which says it has difficulties, which knows that it will also have obstacles in the future, but which is trying to change the agenda, not just development. He's trying to change the agenda and socially - that's why I said that about the benefits - that's trying to change the agenda rightfully. What happened yesterday, the day before the Sharia law, brought by Mr. Gabroglou, was also an incision. And why did we have to do all this, in the problems that have been greedy for so many years? Because the previous governments have always had the saying "never do what you can do today. And we say 'never do what you can do tomorrow'. And that is what we say about society and the economy and the world we support, which we think will see better days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u407	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u408	Then, Mr. Dendia. What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u409	Madam President, will you allow me to ask a question, why will the Minister then leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u410	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Stavros Kontonis, has the floor to announce some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Madam President. We're putting in some legislative improvements. It's literally legal improvements. It is also contained in the document and the communication, which I have made on the remuneration of ombudsmen, and I would ask you to share with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u412	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u413	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u414	Here you go, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u415	Minister, excuse me. I've heard you as always, with care. You told us everything was going well and so forth. You said about the New Democracy. If you look at the Chamber, the New Democracy MP ratio, SYRIZA is similar. Eighteen Members from the government majority have in the Chamber, keep in mind. I'll be sorry Friday night, but you're not selling anymore. So, what can I do to you? How can I get you people? Tell another song to come in. What you say doesn't sell. You told us things. I want to ask you something special, Minister. Beyond your comments on the multiple family, let me tell you first of all that the New Democracy has given an allowance from the first child. You know that New Democracy legislated. Now, if you ask us if we have any scientist, I imagine that conceals the position that all the scientists in the country are housed in SYRIZA and no one else advises anyone else. I guess you're not so arrogant. Now, however, I want to ask you something special, because the rest I will tell you tomorrow, which I will ask you to explain to us, since you are doing everything so well, because you are abolishing your own legislation a few months ago. For example, you have been abolishing the SAD here for some time now. And you've been telling us how good she is and how well the Public Participation Company will do. Now you come and dismantle it after a few months. It never worked, we told you. Otherwise, you're doing everything perfectly! But tell us, by the way, if you have the kindness, because you constantly do structures, this new structure, which you are building for a name "Address for Economic Crime Investigations". What do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u416	Four times I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u417	No, you didn't say anything. Wasn't that your location?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u418	I'll take time to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u419	You already have excellent staff in the JRC, the JRC, the UNHCR, the DIFF, and the DIFF. There's the Economic Police. You're building another agency. The executives who are already in these services - in our view extremely executives - are not sufficient?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u420	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I have listened with caution and indeed amazed at some questions which you have raised both towards the opposition and to the Democratic Consensus. Firstly, you have wondered why we have been telling you many times about the recycling of poverty. Recycling poverty, Minister, is to seek excessive primary surpluses, above what is being asked of you, and then pay allowances, while draining the economy. This is called recycling of poverty. Social automation of your government is this conversation between two, three children of a family and a child. That's called social automation. We have shown you that you could very easily, if you wanted, improve benefits in certain categories, even in the one you wanted, without insulting the other categories of tritten and luxurious. As far as strikes are concerned, I have now heard you, Minister, really support the measure you are bringing. At other times, I have heard you personally say that 'we have lost the deal on this matter'. To this! And for the lock out and for others, you have said that they did not pass, but that is why you said that we were 'lost'. What's going on between you and me? I think you have confused your own Members too. What's the matter? Have you lost in negotiation on this particular issue, as you have said many times or won and is this essentially your proposal, your Government? Previously, this proposal had not been passed. Despite the fact that the New Democracy really wanted to pass it, because this party - the democratic party - did not allow it, it did not pass in 2014 and 2013. I'm telling you, if you're confused about what's happened before. Finally, I am concerned that what you said in relation to 31-12-2018 with the auctions means, Minister, that you will not negotiate for the extension. That's what you told us. A moment ago, you told us that it would be the case, because someone has made the first residence of 30 December and you refuse today in the House to commit yourself to negotiating to extend the protection of first residence after 31/12-2018. If that is not the case, make a commitment that in the negotiation you will immediately put the protection of first home. We cannot go any further, by mocking and by arrogance, Minister, the arrogance that opposition has no words right, does not know things, comes with an older perception. You're government. Answer the questions posed by the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u422	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u423	Madam President, is this a procedure? Is this a proper procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u424	Parliamentary representatives have the right to speak. We know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u425	Madam President, above all you and everyone are aware of my deep respect for lawyers and lawyers in general. They have a disadvantage, that it doesn't work out very well in math. Eighteen SYRIZA MPs, two New Democracy MPs. If I'm not deceived, that's a reason 9 to 1. And if I'm not mistaken again, we don't have nine times more Members than you. Maybe in the next election, but not right now. Let's get the math clear on this. Secondly, we are indeed abolishing the SAD. I'll explain what that means. Previously, the arrest was that it would be a board and would have four sub-funds: TIADED, TSA, TSA, which is for TEKO, and ETAD, which is for property. We have decided, precisely in order to support the public nature of the EKOs, to broaden the Board - not the ETUC, there will be no ETUC from seven to nine, there will be two members specialising in public enterprises, so that there will not be any logic of private criteria, only when this restructuring of businesses is carried out, which I must tell you is a very great need. And I would like to say to you, Mr Dendia, that there is one reason why this agency is being enforced is how the TECs were working for the 40 years of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-population in your own hands and your good colleagues. I'll tell you very briefly about the new agency for the D.A.'s orders. I have explained that to the committee, but also to the reply to a question from a colleague. What has been happening so far has been completely anarchist and has prevented the hierarchy of tax evasion issues. Because there were orders made, they were always prioritised, because everyone respects the prosecutors and every DU had to stop the job to do so without knowing if it was really important things. So what better? The A.D.D. doesn't want that. She wants to continue her own checks, in a very systematic way and a very good hierarchy. So we have a new agency, which will be for the prosecutors' orders, which will necessarily have hierarchies. I now come to the issue of the recycling of poverty, which was raised by the representative of the Democratic Alliance. I think what I said was clear. The money for benefits comes from the cost overview. You also raise me another issue, that we are making a surplus, and then we share that with the poor. But I've explained it too many times. I am very sorry that there is never any continuity in the discussions in this House. We say one thing, someone else says the same thing, and then we say the same thing again. The surplus was not a target. We would have preferred it to be different, but the institutions - particularly the IMF, to be fair - calculate the return of measures. Despite what you said about tax evasion, we didn't do anything, the last number I know from the voluntary disclosure program is 700 million. So, if you have an extra 700 million, even if they're wrong, you have a surplus over the target. This is not called recycling poverty. I am going to your last question - Mr Koutsoukos put it, if I'm not mistaken - that there are two lines. Some say this was enforcing, some say it's not that bad. Why can't both be? I don't get it. I do not see any reasonable contradiction in saying that you negotiated the lock out, which it took, the time that a strike has to be announced, the profits - that you lost, it was not your choice - but then you had a serious debate, as I am trying to have a serious debate on the seriousness of this retreat. Because you can make a retreat, which you take seriously eight out of ten, five out of ten, two out of ten, one out of ten. So that doesn't make any sense. I told the JRC's partners that, from all measures, this cannot be very fundamental in the development of the trade union movement's struggles. I think there are many more problems, which are objective and we need to solve them, but also internal problems, endogenous, which must solve the trade union movement. Because it is a disgrace, in a way, the trade union movement - with this example I stole from the Minister of Labour - to eighty people not being able to collect the forty to make a decision. I'm not saying it was our choice again. I say, however, that a serious left, serious left parties and a trade union movement would be the last obstacle, so that the struggles you would like, too, can be developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u426	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Palhei, you want the floor in the circle of Parliamentary Representatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u428	For two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u429	...so Mr. Chakalotos will answer you later?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u430	Let's answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u431	I'm just saying it about the economy of the process. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u432	There's been so much conversation and we haven't taken part. I shall turn to the Minister, but also to the Minister. The debate on whether or not the right to strike arises, whether it creates further difficulties or not, cannot be eviscerated by various bicollaborative arguments of the type eighty, forty, 20 etc. Things are much more serious, much more serious! And if we want to discuss - because you raise this - the right to strike, we need to set the overall framework, which has been shaped over the past few years and which helps, or constantly blocks, the right to strike and, if in this context, the regulation that you bring, comes to work cumulatively and actually leads to major obstacles to the point of banning the strike. Is it like this or not? Question: Does the regulation, which you bring, facilitates or makes it difficult for the decision to strike the heart of the working class, which is the Primary Operational Association? And the factories - if you don't have a picture, give you evidence - don't only work with eighty or fifty or a hundred people. They work with five hundred and more. So leave that example. So, we ask very simply: Why are you bringing this? For what? To help the working class or prevent it? There are shifts in the factories, yes or no? Do you know them? Are the quorum difficult, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u433	Impossible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u434	They make it relatively impossible and at larger factories even. Secondly, is there a heinous, cynical, ergonomic terrorism, yes or no? Are there any redundancies in people, trade unionists who have been kidnapped? Thirdly, are there the Workers' Associations which, by 1/15, make an operational contract? Will you abolish it? Get out here and say it. Why don't you remove it? Why don't you abolish this law, which has voted for PASOK, which is unacceptable, disgusting, provocative and - how am I supposed to say it? - to the benefit of the employer, which can solve and bind in these circumstances too? Why don't you go out and say you're going to repeal him? Tell us. Mrs. Ahchioglu, I think you're too smart. You are more than double the percentage needed to make a decision. If there is no quorum, no decision can be made. That's what you bring now. If it does not have 50%+1, there is no convention. What do you say to us, "We don't change anything in how they decide the strike"? But the biggest problem that existed and there are many times, because of these conditions and not others, is that a quorum of 50%+1 cannot be easily built. That's the whole story. And you come and beat yourself in the heart. And it's no coincidence who's asking for it. Who's asking for that? The labour movement? Whatever, I say. Nobody. Only BSE and other employers' organizations are asking for it. Therefore, stop using such arguments and defrost confrontation on the issue of the strike. I'll see you on Monday we'll have more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u435	Now they're gonna want everyone to talk. Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u436	I think Mr Tsakalotos explained very clearly what this change means to us. Because I have heard many times from various Confederal Members: 'It is not clear what your line is, whether you support it or not,' what we have said is that the trade union law was at the table in the whole, that on our part - this was supported by the Committee of Experts, who had made the relevant findings - we have said that Law 1264 is a sufficient law, that the whole framework in the country around the trade union law is, in relation to the rest, a moderately strict framework - which is what we are looking at when we look at it with regard to the rest of the countries as well - and therefore, given the principle that the trade union movement should be self-regulatory, we do not think there should be any change. From the point of view of lenders and the International Monetary Fund, above all, which has a completely different perception of the labour market, there were a number of demands at the table concerning the time of warning about a strike, the half-wage cut in trade union licences, the general clause on the redundancy of trade union officials, the introduction of the lock out and several others, which I cannot now remember. Obviously, this issue also required a change in the overall scope of trade unions, which would make it impossible to take a decision on a strike, because there should be a general meeting in the Constitution if it went to a general meeting. So in the face of all these requirements, the regulation we have finally reached and made a small retreat, we have explained why we consider it to be of a small extent. I do not think there is any difference in our original position. We say, however, that this retreat is small. And to prove it's small-scale, we've set out a number of examples. You're telling me that we shouldn't use numbers, because with the numbers, we're diluting the issue. But it's just the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u437	I didn't say that thing. Hear well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u438	I listened very carefully. It's just the numbers. The prediction of L.1264 was that one-third of the financially settled members of a union must be present at the general assembly of the primary union, in order to make the decision to strike and this one-third becomes 1/2. It is precisely a debate on the figures. We have set out clear examples so that anyone who wants and who has open ears can understand whether it is now about abolishing the right to strike - as the JRC has been saying for some days - or whether it is a small-scale change. What we have said further - several of our Members have said - is not that we will go out and say that this is an amazing regulation in order to strengthen the trade union movement. But we said this: do you really want to take this opportunity and have an essential debate on where the trade union movement is today? If I'm not mistaken, "RIZOPASTIS" has been writing for primary trade unions - seals, which have no legitimacy in the world of work. We need to have a debate on the trade union movement. Do we not want to take this opportunity to have this debate? It's okay. However, do not distort the positions, what we support and what we do not support. One final comment, because you're telling me I don't know what's going on in the workplaces, etc. 98% of firms in the country have up to 20 employees. So don't tell me about unions and five hundred factories, which are all Greece with heavy industries of five hundred people, because that's not the reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u439	Mr. Xanthos has asked for the floor. I will, however, give the floor first to one speaker, because we have broken the list. You'll talk next, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u440	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u441	Mr. Paradoxopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u442	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn a little attention to the issue, which Mr Tsakalotos mentioned earlier, that there is no debate in this House. And there is no debate when the same arguments are recycled without dialogue. [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] There is also no debate when a speaker from Stepa speaks and does not listen, of course. Time counts on me, and I would ask the JRC colleagues, if possible, to speak a little more slowly so that I can be heard and, in any case, to be able to come up with a reasoning. It is not a debate, when one side says, for example: 'You promised that you would abolish the memorials' and the other side comes and says: 'We did not say that we would abolish the memorials, we said we would try to abolish the memorials'. And when the time comes for elections, which are the contract for the operation of today's Parliament and the current government, then the other side, which says again, is: "We will try to get out of the memorandum." That's the answer. Do you respond to that? Was there anyone who said, ‘No, did you not crash in 2015’? And how can he say it when we got to the last reservoir of our reserves in 2015? Is there anyone who says that after September 2015 there is no attempt to get out? I think that the debate here in this House is dominated by the phrase, which the Minister of Finance said at the outset, that for the first time we are dealing with a piece of legislation which is of contractual importance and where positive measures for the place are more than negative. That's right and honest. It's not easy to call it. It's heavy. It is not easy to say that this House is taking steps, which are negative, why can someone say to you: why do you not vote for what is good and you vote for the negative? I think that we owe an answer to the Greek people here. First of all, we must say that if we are dealing with a piece of legislation with many positive elements, we must of course pay attention to the positive elements and not just the negative ones. But negative ones also seem to be a price for our ability to gain autonomy and get away from the memoranda in the near future. If we look at them within the time horizon, they're not negative. They are burdensome, but they are also positive and what is painful because they lead to the exit from the Memorandum. Secondly, we need to look at these burdensome measures in a way that shows that we are not being disguised, that this is not the first time that we have had a piece of legislation, which is being voted on as a whole and which contains some regulations that are burdensome or do not like us. We are therefore voting for the codes in our national context. When we vote for an urban code with two thousand articles or criminals with a thousand articles, there are some which are not exactly what we would like, but we consider the whole of them to be a positive one, and so we vote for the whole piece of legislation. Positives have been analysed by many colleagues. It's a lot and it's important. It is the Land register, quartz, consumer protection, the establishment of an Economic Crime Research Directorate and the voluntary arrangements, which have been analysed by Mrs Jufi very carefully and in various dimensions. I think it is precisely because it seems the last time we are voting on a piece of legislation, which includes regulations, which are burdensome, and we are now moving towards August, which will allow us to have a much greater autonomy, we can say that we are not turning a page today, but we are putting the last lines on some pages, as Euclid Tsakalots says - which then has some lines and a horizon, which is much more positive and hopeful. Before I come to mention a few words on a special issue, I think we should all congratulate the consultancy group who have worked for this piece of legislation. It is titanium for the production of this legislation, not only of the production of the specific provisions but also of their composition. You know, legislation has become so many times more difficult today than it used to be, because each law should not be compared only with all the other laws that are already in existence, to see if there are overlap, dislocations, etc., we must also incorporate them into the international framework, take consultation and come back many times. In other words, we must incorporate each other into multiple frameworks, something very difficult. Hours - hours and I, seeing these four hundred articles, which are probably five thousand rules, ten thousand rules, because each article contains many regulations, I really wonder how so quickly such an important project has been done. The special regulation, to which I shall refer, is mediation. First of all, I think that there is no question of unconstitutionality. It has not been put here at all politically today. But I would like to say a word, because the Union of Judges and Prosecutors has put this in place, and that is a serious one. Of course, there is a right to judicial protection and, of course, there should be no conditions for recourse to justice that cancels this possibility. Is this the case, when there are some costs and costs for the citizen of order for mediation, which was finally shaped on the basis of the latest interventions by the Minister of Justice? I think not, because in small variations and special procedures the amount is much lower. It's only 50 euros, or it's 170 euros. The thing, you know, it's technical. It's not simple. In other words, we need to quantify whether there are so many of these costs that they cancel the citizens' opportunity to go to court. It is obviously not because it has been judged when this is the case in our case-law. We have a decision from the Council of State this year. This has been recognised in cases where, in particular, we have proportionate fees for appealing to a court, and indeed, without a ceiling. So you understand that the analogue fee can reach too high and indeed, the citizen cannot go to justice. I think that this level of fees, in no way can they talk about cancelling the possibility for the citizen to go to justice, much more so provided for in legal aid. There is also special care for economically impossible citizens, which facilitates their access to this point too. In order not to think that I spoke only in platonic terms and for burdensome measures, which we could have differently, I would like to tell you that personally, I think the regulation is problematic, which allows us to have non-legislative ombudsmen. I think that this should be rethinked in the future, not only in our country, but also in Europe that has accepted it. It does not suit the continental Europe system to have people who contribute to justice - even for practical compromise - without knowing the laws. This can be the case in America, England, who work on a case-by-case basis just and jurisprudence. I think that in our area, it must be well aware of this legislation, which will help to compromise two citizens within the law and I hope that Europe and we will see it again in the future. I don't want to break time limits. I propose that you vote on the bill, because I believe that its important points are of great importance and even its burdensome points relieve us, because they make it easier for us to get out of the memoranda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u443	I will give the Minister of Health, Mr. Blonde, the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Madam President. We want to submit legislative improvements to eight articles concerning the provisions of the Ministry of Health. The most important is Article 257 where, following on from the interventions and discussions we had with the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association yesterday, at the hearing of bodies, we are changing the time of opening the night. In 20.00, which was in the original version of the bill, it becomes 21.00 ́. Also, in the context of the liberalisation of pharmacy hours - which you know very well that has been legislated for many years - Sunday is explicitly excluded from the possibility of extending the working time. So we think that, in a context of complete liberalisation, what we are doing with our intervention as a whole is that we put rules, we put a framework, we put safeguards, which ensure the proper functioning of the market and citizens' access at any time to a pharmacy that is overnight or overday. We also ensure the sustainability of small and medium-sized pharmacies from the extension - let me say - of so-called expanded-time pharmacies, which were indeed beginning to create conditions for oligopolistic intervention in the drug market.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u445	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th General School of Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Manolakou, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u446	Madam President, will we be done as soon as you close the list?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u447	Some have also said to speak today, instead of Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u448	How many, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u449	Four more people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u450	Four more people?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u451	Yeah, but we'll see if that's true. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u452	So many ministers you spoke. But no one explained why so many bills together. Some of them were running around from summer. They could have been discussed separately. You did not, because you want to cover, cover the heart of your anti-popular, authoritarian policy. So you start and shoot at the right of strike, which, in order for it to take place, requires organization, aggregation and determination of the workers. That is precisely what frightens and frightens business groups, bourgeois classes and its parties, that is, the uplift and determination of strikers for their rightfulness. And we are not talking about degenerating strikes by subordinate trade union leaders or unions - seals. We're fighting them. Books, poems, songs about major strikes, which have written history and experienced great solidarity in many countries, for workers who have fought organized, exiled and intimidated their exploiter, who, if generalized at country level, go into other situations. Therefore, the issue of strike eruption has not arisen, because the trade unions have asked for it, nor is it your initiative in a sensitive way for them to function better. Here you maintain all the anti-corruption measures, which you have received from New Democracy and PASOK, and you are expanding them. Mr. Tsakalotos, Mrs. Ahtsioglou and Members told you it was not your choice. So who obliges you to pull out the strike? The IMF and the industrialists demanded it. It started, the New Democracy had prepared it, which is the most populated, and you continued to do so. That is why yesterday the Association of Greek Industrialists praised you for being in the right direction and demanding its completion. So you have allies on the strike: the New Democracy and the PASOK. In addition, their support is shown by their trade union groups, which undermine any mobilization of protest and action. Of course, New Democracy and PASOK rub their hands with joy, for these were in their own memorials. And yours too. But you're doing it with a timetable. And as far as we're concerned, it's doubtful whether their governments could get through. That's right. SYRIZA - ANEL Government better opens pits to bury rights to the working class. That's why they prefer you. It's a big deal of your offer to the system. And justly, Mr Tsakalote, you are praised for the speed of implementation of the anti-grassroots prerequisites of the third evaluation and you are pleased that things are better. However, the authoritarianism of government policy is expressed outside and within the House. The fast track method for four hundred articles does not allow anyone to talk about all the effects on the people, about what stabbings come on their backs, to at least try to stop them and not feel them when the knife has entered. Therefore, “the tomb silence” has many forms and you know how to use them, especially in times that you do falsify about “fair growth”, as you call the development of the profitability of capital and poverty of the populace. And you don't stop anywhere: Consolidating and criminalizing concentrations for auctions, including the farmer's first home or field or microprofessional shop. To limit the protest, you're making it compulsory by electronic means. Like your policy, for many threeteen and tent families it is Herod policy and whatever excuse the Minister of Finance is trying to find it has no impact. The register had to exist. It's been unsolved for decades. Incompetent? No, of course not. The Governments of New Democracy and PASOK were simply using the commercialisation and use of state land to secure votes and reproduction of the rotted urban system. You put an integration schedule in 2020, because you want a concentration of state land for sale or mortgage on foreign and local business interests. Moreover, the World Bank demanded the Stock Exchange to be provided with a mortgage on state land. Therefore, the needs of capital rather than of the people are satisfied and you are not hesitant to lay off fifty of the sixty-three experienced lawyers, which means that cases and files will be given to individuals and offices. Finally, because you have tried very hard to justify your guilt, namely that there is nothing wrong with the article against the strike, I will remind you of one of the most far-reaching employers' crimes: July 2008 in the shipbuilding repair zone. Eight dead, shredded in the altar of profit, from a tank blow on a repaired ship, with zero safety measures for human life. What would the trade union boards expect? Count economic integration or the uprooting of the working class from rage and indignation for employers' crime? You should know, then, that strike and class struggle are not imprisoned, not abolished and it is not for the eyes of the world that the forms of protest in your anti-government ministries, unions and federations, who fight and are on the streets. They're showing the labor movement's head up. That's why you're slandering it. We understand you, as we understand the speakers of the New Democracy, plundering in anti-communist and anti-communist cries. Yes, SYRIZA "has grabbed you the bite from the mouth". It hurts you in competition for the rotten system you serve. But you should know that whatever you do, your reactionary laws are not unshakable. They are revived and shattered by the anger of the people. And this day will come and will be dala noon, with the sun up. Be sure!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u453	The Minister for Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u454	I'm making a legislative improvement to Article 210. It's a pragmatic improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u455	Please take a photo and be distributed. Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsisis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Madam President. In the last fifty years, nothing has changed in this country, except that political inhumanity and old age have become huge. The mockery is now becoming methodical and scientific. The plans that have been devised by foreign decision-making centres are implemented by domestic business interests, with the assistance of SMEs and polling companies that manipulate the electorate and show governments disastrous for our country. Depending on the reactions of the world, the enslavement plans are at times amended. Let us not forget the supposed socialist transformation, which convinced us that the people were in power. Through the supposed change, populism, the abusive interpretation of the law, and the organized minorities under the apathy of the orderly state were raised. Then, other gravitational names, such as "modernisation", "new governance" were chosen and now "drift with the past". On the pretext of adapting to the acquis communautaire, all the powers were gradually conferred on Brussels and the country's budgetary policy was totally weakened. Depending entirely on financial mechanisms, the Greeks are bankrupt, the interdependent interests are glamorous, and bankers, publishers, major contractors and few families, which plunge public wealth and especially the media, are treasured. The most spectacular phenomenon of this time is the deterioration of Parliament and the frustration of our people about the political situation in general, which in fact suits those who want the Greek ignorant and left to his fate. We have now reached this point in this country, and it is not self-evident that work, pensions, and care. But what is it? Our national borders, our national sovereignty? Our people have learned nothing from these devastating policies. He continues, with a slight consciousness to his large majority, to support and elect his destructors. Today, a left-wing government, but with capitalist practice, brings with it a multi-branded plan, which continues with the policies I have just mentioned. It's a multi-plug vacuum cleaner, which among a negative-measure orchid has some fissures, which are positive. And that's what I'll tell you. One is the measure for auctions, with the aim of avoiding blocking the procedure from any annoying - let me express - mixes of every colour that they want to protect citizens' property. They change family benefits and a new way of granting them is determined. The allowance is lost for several thousand families and many others with three or more children will be lost. The government pays families with one or two children, throwing up multiple and third families. This measure, of course, has an electoral logic, since the majority of the new Greek families have a maximum of one or two children. The abstraction of your left policy is the measures which make the strike even more difficult. He's protesting the JRC, but I don't think it's fair, since we're living in a chaviet. There's no need for the trade unions. We have reached levels where the employer provides everything for the workers. It is the kind and the spirit of this new governance. After all, for decades, the value of the trade union movement has been destroyed by the presence of so many trade union workers in the parliamentary headquarters. Which PPC now, which ELTA, which HNDDAP, and urban transport are worthy of value in front of the Memorandum Obligations? What do citizens need on the ground mortgages once they transfer a property, they will need to put their hand in the pocket deeper? And at the bottom of the script, why should Greek citizens own property? What do they need? You poorly increase casinos from nine to thirteen. Normally, every city should have its casino! Every neighborhood must have the temple of its gambling, because as our people say, paraphrasing an old proverb "the place that opens a casino will open a prison". It's a job to give! As for our unemployed fellow citizens, who are waiting as a manna from heaven for some temporary posts in the municipalities of the country, the forty-eight thousand people were misdefined. It is advisable to zero this number, since it is not useful for them to use anything, only for a duplicate wage and to extend the insurance of their children for a short period of time, so have a doctor! But to stop blaming our people with lies, with beautiful words and mocking our ears, let us say the truth: our people today - and not only today - are an unformed electoral mass that moves in any direction, looking forward to everything from anyone who promises them. A sense of responsibility has been lost, which must be dispersed in every act of ours, especially those that have a direct impact on society as a whole. The grimness of the social situation deteriorates day after day, but the Greek people continue to live in apathy, having lost their fighting. Is it indifference, saturation, fatigue, abandonment? The lack of a political popular reaction, the lack of dialogue, initiatives and spiritual searches are the reasons for making us pessimistic and uneasy for the real possibility that the Greek people can have in order to get themselves out of the crisis. If this apathy comes from the decline in our society, which completely cynically ceased to believe in those values that can raise us back, then our prospect as a country is a nightmare. Faithfulness and immunity against detested political proposals destroy the only weapon that the citizen has, which is nothing but his vote on the elections. Let no one expect that the sacrifices imposed on us by the foreign factor will lead us to a solution or that the future will improve itself. At last, the Greek is invited to show courage and especially to take the initiative to fight, raise the head, experiences to become lessons. Unfortunately for you, as the Left, you do not defend the truth, but you do Siloam's Left swimm to cover all misery. If you have the left-hand sign, whatever you do is tolerated by a society that is afraid to denounce evil, not to mention it as fascist and reactionary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] By the way, while - to me - the Church has a good view of the Macedonian issue, why is it opposed to the condolences for Macedonia? What's the point? Also, following the announcement of the celebration for Macedonia in Thessalonica, farmers - quite accidentally! - They're closing the streets. Let us hope for a revolution of our national conscience. Let's hope - although I don't see it - that you won't be the last of those who aren't capable. As for the Macedonian, what do we say? The Macedonian is on its way. We shouldn't even have talked about it, because there's no question. I shall now end, Madam President. I just want to say that since you've been living in a protectorate, it's only natural to give your boss a reason. And if the Americans knew to speak Greek, what would they say to SYRIZA - and that makes sense - right now? "Other you eat and drink and elsewhere you go and give it." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u457	Mr Michalis, Member of the SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u458	Madam President, may I ask a one-minute question on a subject that has arisen in relation to legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u459	Wait till Mr. Michails is finished and you get the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this multi-legislative project is prerequisites for legislation - the obligations of the third programme and, at the same time, it is currently facing problems of fundamental modernisation of the Greek state, which is why we support it. Since my previous position, I have pointed out the reluctance of the governments of the past to modernise the state in a fundamental way. Is this a weakness or a conflict of interest? The answer will be given by the historian of the future. However, the data have been recorded. Today I will dwell on issues of the Ministry of Education: Article 245. Mandatory training hours. Teachers' hours are divided into teaching and non-educational hours. This has been regulated since 1985 by Law 1566. The same arrangement shall be repeated by this Article, but with a more detailed description of the education's external obligations. But let us stand by the essence of the educational work and its compulsory working hours. The work of the educator consists, in his teaching in the classroom, of his preparation for it, but also of his full participation in school life and in education, through extra-educational work and actions. This is recognised by everyone, and that is why teachers, following students and the operation of schools, do not work when the school is on holiday. I find it disastrous for the school and the whole of his work that the teacher's only task is to teach in class. The whole school education is not only completed by teaching. All kinds of school activities and the participation of all teachers in them are necessary. That is what this Article seeks. Article 246; mergers of school units. The conditions and procedure are described in detail and, in particular, the time limits for these actions. It is difficult to disagree with the specific requirements of the apprenticeship population, geographical distribution and the rest. But how did the problem come about? The existing school network was structured mainly by Law 309/1976, which separated high school and introduced nine-year-old education. Then it was logical for every village to have a primary school, every town to have a high school or even a high school. Right, 'cause then there were kids. Today, five decades later, two decisive changes are recorded in the population of the country: First is the rapid overall reduction in the school population and secondly, the strong movement of the population in the large urban centres. That's how we got school leave from students, not only in villages, but in cities. By excluding islands and poor mountain areas in particular, can it be argued that we should not see the whole structure of the school and school network again? So can it be argued that school-driven or short-distance schools are pedagogically well-functioning with thirty or forty students and not merged, with the sole objection that there might be a reduction in teachers' organic positions? This structure of the school network has led to the need to move teachers into two and three schools to complete their compulsory teaching hours. It is a fact of pedagogically unacceptable. Shouldn't that be restricted? With these teachers' movements to complete compulsory teaching hours, the training club is weakening or losing. The whole problem has been coming for decades and it is unresolved, because it is confronted with many pursuits and perceptions. Example: ‘Not in possible reduction in organic positions’. "I want school in my neighborhood." What can we do after all? First of all, we should put priorities. First, the educational needs, therefore the rationalization of the department and the school unit, as well as the school network. These are described as the conditions of this Article. In addition, I would like to say that we also consider the province's cultural needs. A school can become a culture cell in a village. The possibility of reducing organic positions, how do we deal with it? I would say with the introduction of new, necessary for pupils of actions, for example, strengthening teaching in a wide network of schools. This proposal is costly, but also conflicting with interests. But let's see her. In conclusion, I would point out that the issues of education are of a multiple nature, but in any case the absolute priority must be their pupils and their needs. I close with an observation about our operation, which Mr Paradoxopoulos also pointed out. The ancient Spartans said: "Neither anointed" and the ancient Athenians said: "Metro is perfect." With these two slogans we have to go to our function as a parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for two minutes, make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u462	Not even for two minutes. I want to inform the House about this. We are shortly before 10 o'clock and Mr. Tsakalotos, with a legislative improvement that he brought a moment ago, in secret, of course, excludes the members of the CFS from submitting a statement of assets. In other words, while the government beats the judges to make public and to make them all public, Mr Tsakalots excludes them from submitting a statement of assets. I wonder: does the government have anything to fear and that is why it covers them? I think this is a real shame for Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u463	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-12-S1-commons.u464	With the agreement of the House at 21.26 p.m. the meeting for the next Monday, January 15, 2018, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Agreements for the implementation of the structural reforms of the Economic Adjustment Programme and other provisions", according to the agenda distributed.
