ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Agreements for the implementation of the structural reforms of the Economic Adjustment Programme and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make an agreement. After consulting the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, and having changed the schedules of the Heads of State or Government a little, the Prime Minister will speak at 14.30 p.m. - and we must all be facilitated, it will be strictly respected in the seven-minute period. I made special consultations with the President of Parliament. Please listen carefully to this. It was time for speech time to go from seven minutes to five, we said it wouldn't go, but it's strict seven minutes. Thank you very much. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, gentlemen. It is logical that there should be an ice cream in the Chamber at the beginning of the sitting, but I think there is an ice cream in the Greek people in relation to the provisions which the majority will be invited to vote today. They are, of course, provisions in response to previous interventions by the government, but they give final blow to specific social groups and, at the same time, create the conditions for even more difficult days at many levels. I shall refer to some of the issues raised by the multi-legislative draft, which have also been limited to the interest of most of my fellow Members, regardless of the fact that there are too many provisions that should be brought forward and assessed. Unfortunately, however, none of our colleagues have been able to do so. One issue he has dealt with is in relation to the allowance to three-tier and tens of families, for which a great deal has been done. I shall tell you very simply, ladies and gentlemen. No allowance should be cut, no matter what you want to baptize it and characterize it, in threeteen and tenteen families. Welcome and strengthen the first and second children. The whole of Greece, however, and Parliament also knows very well that this benefit was an incentive not to solve the demographic problem of the country, I wish that was enough to resolve it - but it was a measure that, in fact, helped in this direction. We all know very well that this is a very big issue for the country and we cannot close our eyes on it. There can be no committee in this House dealing with the demographic problem in a room next to this House and in plenary there can be measures to limit the support of these families. I come from a county that has the second worst rate, the worst proportion in Greece in births and deaths. It's Prefecture Kilkis. It was this provision, the EUR 500 that was given to the many families for every child, an essential aid that I will not give any social aid. But I'll say it was a real help. I think you're making a big mistake. They are not interested in these families, but they are not interested in the Greek society if the entire allowance is increased or reduced. We are all concerned that the allowance is reduced to three-tier and multiple families. And we should not see it compared to those who reduce income are sixty thousand families, while those who increase income are two thousand or three hundred thousand families. The main thing is one. This allowance is necessary and necessary beyond any political placement, to exist, to exist, because it has been assessed for its usefulness and because as long as the time goes, it is even more imperative that such aid be provided. A second point I would like to raise is the famous question of strike rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you are aware of exactly what you are doing. You are effectively abolishing the right of strike in primary organizations. And you will understand - at least you who want to understand - why you are abolishing it. You remove it because you deprive yourself of the possibility of a quorum. We were one of those who said that it really must not be a small majority that decides, which will take decisions with consequences for the lives of the fellow citizens and be those minorities of the 'workers' who will determine the fates of all the workers. We wanted a broader majority, acceptance and legitimacy of such a decision. However, this is more than enough to deprive you of the possibility of strike. How will 50% +1 of working workers come to Athens, come where the seat of the regional or pan-Hellenic union is to decide?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3	Which regional?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u4	How will there be a quorum? Why do you not accept our proposal to give the vote another chance, to make it easier for someone to access a worker to vote? Is there anyone here who believes that there will ever be a quorum in such organizations? There will never be a quorum and there will never be a decision on any strike mobilisation. Give the workers the opportunity to vote in a more modern way. To be able to interfere from where they are and to determine their fate. Behind what you are hiding is essentially exclusion, objective weakness in the existence of quorum and decision. We agree with 50% +1 but in a way that enables the worker to participate and say his vote and determine the future of his own and his fellow citizens. On mediation, I think that the government should take a stand in the remarks of the Parliamentary Scientific Office. There are specific remarks. They shall be based on legal data from European Courts. They are based on practice and logic. I think that these very important remarks, made by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, come to strengthen the arguments which have been heard by the lawyers and by the judicial associations. It is not in this way that mediation should be supported, which could indeed be a useful tool, which could help to speed up justice and really alleviate the tables and volumes that are to be investigated, but not in the way it comes, not in the way it comes, but in the way it comes, not in the way of compulsoryity, not with the great expense, not with the characteristics that exist in the plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u5	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now judged not only by your attitude here - unfortunately we know it, you are consistent in your attitude. But know that being consistent with the government and supporting it in your vote makes many of you inconsistent with the principles that they have theoretically declared all this time, but also with the scientific knowledge of some and their social sensitivity. This social sensitivity for specific measures I once again invoke. I invite you to look for her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u8	If we were to be able to radically amend some of the provisions of the plan, which are embodied in the seal of creditors' requirements in the prerequisites for the third assessment, we could be talking about arrangements that are most positive to the great effort to get away from the suffocating guardianship of lenders with acquaintances, of course, the financial conditions that exist throughout the United Europe, but without any victories, without what we hear about the preventive credit line requirements, without all that would not make the country's effort to be a financial protector for lenders. However, ladies and gentlemen, despite our delegation's efforts to improve improvements, not to those issues where creditors have raised their obsessions, their ideologies, their extortion, and which have led to the signing of the memoranda to have a country that lost 25% of its gross national product and which has plundered both the wealth of the country and caused social impoverishment. We could see here celebrating with all of us both the threeteen and the tenant families and all those who do not belong to the rich, those who have sent their surpluses in various ways, in particular by exploiting labour and also in an unfair manner, in tax havens, but who would support the intervention that the government has managed to make to support the child and support, as has been said before, all those efforts in the country to solve its demographic problem. They didn't allow it. They have not allowed all families who do not belong to strategic malpractices to celebrate here, and we can also have the introduction of the way in which electronic auctions are doing all the work which, however, could not be of concern to the people, to the protection of the first popular home, and that was institutionalised. We didn't make it. We are, however, calling on all those who are talking about the right to strike to realize that we are the ones who call on the workers to massage the general assemblies and to have strikes at the workplace that are dynamic with the participation of all, if possible, the workers, those who conflict with capital, which on many issues is illegitimate. And I think that our differences in the right-wing concepts are also visible on these issues, those which we must not forget in advance would want to demarcate on behalf of the entire Opposition, that is to say, Makis Vorides, to speak of a mutation of our own Left, for our opportunism. But they forget that we have never hidden our ideological and political orientation. We are about a new attempt at social transformation with what we have learned from the causes that have not been able to achieve the first attempt of socialism to do it with democracy, freedom and quality of life. We also want these lessons to lead to a change in the correlations between the right and the left in the United Europe, to make the Europe that we are visionating, but with the clear disagreement between the right and the left. We heard Mrs Gennamas in her speech yesterday thinking that we should go to a change of relationships - legitimate - but with a strategic defeat of SYRIZA. They did not speak of a strategy of defeat on the right and of the perceptions that caused the country's overcompensation. So what is the prospect of what we want to change in the relationships between Europe and Greece and having a country that will move on to its major priorities without the boot of lenders? I should like to tell you that in the positive wording it is: the organisation of a system for the evaluation and compensation of medicinal products for human use. The new system aims at modernising, rationalising and transparency in the process of selecting the most efficient and most advantageous economic treatment. It is also intended to address the problem of high prices for innovative medicines in order to make it easier for all patients to access the necessary medicines. We have the provisions of the pharmaceutical legislation on the working hours of pharmacies and on-calls, and we also call on the Ministry of Health to accept some of the proposals made by the President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, so that we can really have formalities that can be accepted by everyone by creating a system of nights and on-calls right. The provisions for the transplantation from the so-called “emotional” donor according to the markings of the National Transplant Organisation, the introduction of the donor card institution and organ donation, the setting of population criteria for new licenses for ionising and non-radio machinery, the possibility for public units of medically assisted reproduction to apply for authorisation. We promote regulations that are useful for modernising medical legislation, for the Panhellenic Medical Association and for medical associations, for introducing arrangements for creating a single electronic system in the EEA, for evaluating high-cost medicines, for early access of medicinal products not included in the list of compensated persons, have not been evaluated and requested to be granted exceptionally. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that with all these points, I think that our efforts to make a mark on the date of 21 August, so that assessments, hierarchies, priorities for the country are taken with our own system of hierarchy of options that will make people's lives and the country's course to be the one that deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am compelled to respond to the colleague who has just come down from the Step, for what he said about the position of the President and the head of the change movement, Mrs Gennimata. Obviously, and what we are seeking is SYRIZA's strategic defeat, because you are in the government right now. You are exercising the policies with which we are completely opposed. You are the ones with whom we disagree at the level of strategy. You will have heard, too, that we are opposed to conservative choices, whether you receive them, the majority, as you receive them, or the New Democracy supports them. It is perfectly logical that there too, if you like, no misinterpretation of intentions, but also of our own strategic planning. There are too many measures, which are currently of concern and which bring the Greek people back many years in many areas. Unfortunately, I cannot talk about everything. However, those which relate to my own competence in the parliamentary group I would like to discuss them. The right to strike, without any prior consultation with the social partners: with the provision which you enter, you are shrining the constitutional right to strike and, in particular, the primary institutions, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say, the bodies directly linked to production, with the worsening of industrial relations, with the need to claim the rights of workers. This is a provision which we consider to be unpopular. We believe, however, that the same provision is too bad to close the eye on professional trade unions and determines the rate of presence and participation in 50% of the cash-in-offs of members of the primary trade union in order to have the right to a decision on the strike. Thus, there is a risk that small workers will be dismantled, that the right to protest and defend workers' interests is reduced. The rate of cash-in-office members favours the creation of small, flexible and in some cases guided trade-union schemes - and you, too, know this very well - while at the same time discourages the mass involvement of workers. This results in the control of small primary organs with the ultimate aim, of course, of manipulating or dissolving them. Every time the government is called upon to justify unjustified, it paves the upcoming development that comes in August 2018. What emerges from the bill, which brings it to the House, is that in the end in these measures, which it introduces, there is no social reserve, there is no social protection. As far as the issue of auctions is concerned, it is now clear to the people that the problem is not the electronic way of conducting auctions, but the non-protection of first home, as we have proposed, with secure social and economic criteria. So at the time that some groups, which are components, tribes - say what you want - in SYRIZA propose, after you vote, that the government then come and protect with new measures the first residence - with social and economic criteria - first choose to vote on the new legislative framework without any longer having to - and you know that - for the vast majority of borrowers no one, but any such prospect of protection. On the other hand, you know that we have the issue of mortgages. What's the problem? That, on the one hand, there is a prospect of employing all the legal and other specialities working in the incomplete mortgages and, on the other, there is the prospect of dismissing all those who do not accept a change in the status of lawyer. What does that mean? It means that you lead to dismissal of those who wish to maintain their status and serve in the National Stock Exchange in Athens and Thessaloniki and in the mediated mortgages in Piraeus, Patras, Ioannina, Arta, Chios and Chania. At the same time, however, there are opaque recruitments of lawyers directly from the board of directors of the new body you set up. You do not care, ladies and gentlemen, about the unconstitutionality that the Scientific Service of the Parliament has made, which clearly states that the mission of the paid and unpaid mortgages is directly linked to the security of trade and the achievement of objectives of public interest, while the servants of them have the status of a judicial officer and enjoy increased protection both in terms of recruitment and dismissal. So there is a problem of constitutionality for their dismissal or subjection to the Ministry of the Environment. Finally, as far as the mediation provisions are concerned, what the government appears to be an effort to support will ultimately be its reap and its indulgence. SYRIZA, who reminds us that he has refused to vote for the law of PASOK, in 3898/2010, for mediation almost demonizing him, is now coming to introduce the obligation to refer about seventeen civil disputes, folk procedures, no problem of delays in the administration of justice. With this type of requirement in recourse to mediation, as well as at the costs incurred by the parties, the constitutional right is fundamentally insulted... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute, Mr President, your tolerance, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u11	If you too can complete it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. Thank you. ... in judicial protection and this obligation is transformed into a consensual mediation requirement. The mediation proposed by the government is accurate, is non-friendly to the citizen, while by the nature of the procedures referred to therein, it becomes more burdensome to the economically weak. It acquires, in other words, a class mark, the opposite of what it has throughout Europe. And, of course, the state and local government agencies are excluded from mediation procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, they are also excluded from compulsory mediation and from large private health agencies - not doctors, doctors - as are the parties who are entitled to legal aid. So you understand why this class sign is growing. That's why she's malicious and class-oriented.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u14	...this planning of mediation and it won't work in practice. We propose the introduction of a mandatory information stage for the parties with a maximum duration of two hours and a maximum cost of EUR 50, so that the parties can understand mediation and go if they decide to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u16	It must be heard, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u17	Mr Colleague, we have come to an understanding that we will keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u18	Just thirty seconds, Mr President. I'd be done. Two problems are also very important: First of all, you are putting 300 euros to the mediation if no one goes to the mediation. He'll pay them and cancel the mediation in practice. Secondly, why do you exclude pensionable judges from this mediation procedure when there is a judicial mediation known? With these measures, as with your company, to squeeze and drop 'black' on municipal radios, you can understand that the measures you are voting on today, ladies and gentlemen, are more important for the citizens than anything else before. You close the evaluation, you close the hope for the Greek people to have a better future in the coming months and years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat something we said at the outset. Mr. Papatheodorou wasn't here and he didn't hear it. We've made a consensual. We are absolutely criticising the time, because the flow of the debate has changed a little. The Prime Minister will speak at noon, and I suppose the other leaders will speak in the middle of the day. So we're changing the course of the debate and we're tightening up the time completely. Seven minutes, we have to stop. My colleague Mr. Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a general comment. Two hundred thirty years from the French Revolution and a hundred from the October many societies both in the West and in the world, do not enjoy the rights for which these great revolutions have become. It's what Joseph Campbell defined as an emergency. And a manifestation of this emergency is, I think, the imposition of memoranda and comitology as we live in our country. And while the big question that emerged in Western societies was "What is democracy and how it is won", we now came to have the huge question "What is justice and how it is awarded". And I say that because there is today a bill from the Ministry of Justice. Great intellectuals, such as Kastoriadis, Bauman, Hambermas, Gros, Chomsky, Zizek have said that the financial sector has completely dominated politics. And from this dominance they say - as probably or as a question mark - that justice in general has not escaped. I shall speak immediately on the subject we are discussing. Mr Charakopoulos told us on Friday that because we are too immature as a party and the ANELs and because we are unable to govern, we must return to the chairs of the counter-population. Obviously, he meant that the chairs of counterpopulation are a very good place and a very good opportunity to mature. Hey, gentlemen, you will stay on the opposition bench for many years, to mature as an opposition, especially you. And you'd better wait. After all, the'sprid' you have been doing for three years towards the elections is probably burnt to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am choosing two major topics from the plan to analyse them. The first is mediation and the second is strike. Mediation is a huge popular institution. If a person goes historically, he will find in various fair systems, even within the limits of local self-government, he will resolve serious civil affairs. He's important. It is constantly gaining ground in Europe and the world as a whole and I think it is an important moment to come with our bill. What were the objections, objections and questions raised by those who disagree with the mediation institution? Two main issues were, firstly, that mediation cannot be mandatory and, secondly, that justice is being privatised. I'll answer both of them. First of all, as far as privatisation is concerned, it seems to be a quasi-judicial court. To us at least that we are ministering justice on whatever side, whether on the side of lawyers or on the side of ordinary judges, or on whatever side in the area of legal award, we understand that this is not just the case, but that it is funny. Mediation is not a court decision. It doesn't make up for the difference. There is no judiciary and no judicial decision. It's an attempt, an attempt to resolve it. That is the requirement, namely to follow a stage in an attempt to resolve it. He's not talking about mandatory in resolution. The solution or they will choose it or they will not choose it. They have that right. In fact, as I will tell you below, our judges, with the diffuse constitutional control, when necessary they said what is constitutional and what is not constitutional. Today, however, such a charge cannot be launched for a simple reason: Community Directive 52/2008, introduced by Law 3898/2010, provided for optionality. You know, in politics, as in the economy, - as in football as I said before - everything is judged by the result, that is, by what the'standard' writes. No result. An institution with optionality, letter blank. It's not effective. It wasn't chosen by the citizens, it didn't work. And when it doesn't work, the state must choose what to do and have to intervene to do it. And he's doing it now. This obligability in mediation has many fans for many reasons. First of all, the President of the Greek Ombudsmen Association said something very serious here. We, he says, do not take mediation as a mandatory solution as mediators. Compulsoryity is not enough to the level of resolution. It doesn't cover the resolution. It obliges citizens to be brought there before the courts for a thousand reasons: Falls, burdens, weaknesses of judges, speed of procedure or the fact that cases are being tried in a few minutes with very serious consequences. The obligation lies in trying to resolve a case, whether civil or commercial. If it's not solved, they'll go to court. On the issue of constitutionality resulting from the privatization of justice and the compulsory nature of justice, listen, ladies and gentlemen. You cannot overlook the judgments of the European Courts. We made a deal here. What the European Courts say, which, based on historical law, have over-legislative power and over-reach the limits of our own legislative intervention, must apply. You know the decision of June 14, 2017. It resolved the issue of the obligation to expressly and irrevocably, following a question raised by the Italian Supreme Court. Italy, too, established that compulsory mediation. So what did he say? He said that national legislation - you know, Mr Panayotopoulos - can, in their historical law, choose compulsory mediation. Did they say so, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u21	For preconditions, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u22	I have the decision here. I'll testify to her for the Minutes. So the mediation issue has now been judged by a decision of the European Court of Justice. This is over. We're choosing it because it solves serious citizens' affairs. Let's talk about the strike. I have heard Mr Georgioda who has even supported the arguments and rhetoric of the JRC. We are destroying, restricting, revoking the citizens' right to strike, he said. To be very serious and very specific, do you want us to accept that there is indeed a restriction on primary unions? Let's take it. However, he cannot see what was on the table and that this was chosen as a line of defense against what the lenders claim. Let me tell you and finish this story. Setting up the lock out strike: Disguised and not valid. The manual improvement of the warning time for the declaration of the strike: Refused and not valid. Adopt the general clause for the dismissal of trade union officials: It has been dismantled and is not applicable. To curtail the time of trade union leave and, above all, to apply horizontally to all levels of trade union organizations. That's the most serious thing. So what happened? There has been a change in the provision. I heard Mr Brutsis mentioning a set of provisions on Friday to show that we are supposed to let the strikes be abolished at other levels. You, Mr. Dendia, are legal, and you understand that. What's changing, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u23	I realized that the invasion of the Martians on earth was disgusted. Big government triumph!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u24	What you understand is another matter. What society and the Greek people understand is important, Mr. Dendia. You can understand what you want. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. In Article 8(2) of Law 1264 we amend, what changes? It provides for a quorum in 1/3. Only this device changes and becomes 1/2 for the quorum.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Lappa, help us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u26	I'm done, Mr. President. Let us finally see what the measure of our rhetoric and arguments is, I have heard Mr Delis about such an operational association, which they have never supported, saying that we are carrying out death contracts on behalf of employers. Listen to rhetoric! Listen to the JRC! And if you combine it with the hybrid you've been doing lately against the Prime Minister of the country, something's changing to your rhetoric, something's bothering you. However, not that provision. And can I tell you, Mr President, something else I can close? 98% of the operational primary unions have under twenty workers, five to fifteen the large volume and some to twenty. In the last 15 years, a strike has never been declared by decision of a primary operational association. All strikes were declared on the basis of secondary and tertiary trade unions. So what is the appeal and the abolition of the strike right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Lappa, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u28	Yes, Mr. President, I'm closing. Let us also say to the chairman of the JRC who is present, that this provision does not apply to the position of work, it does not apply to regional and wider regions, as stated in point 1264. No other provision shall be amended beyond that. Only for the quorum. And if you think that the fewer they get to form the quorum, the better for the trade union movement, we all need to look into our mirror to see what's to blame for this anticipation of trade union movements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Nicholas Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, previous colleague, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would really like to believe you, namely, that the plan opens the way to the completion of the third assessment, that the completion of the third assessment opens the way for the exit of the Greek economy from the memoranda or from surveillance, that it will take off the Greek economy, etc. But you don't inspire me, and reality insists on me too. With Greece, therefore, global champion for overtaxation and northern Greece - I must say this - a champion for the exterior to tax change for over-taxation, with EUR 1.9 billion voted in favour of the budget for 2018, with twenty-seven new taxes per century, eight new taxes for 2018, with voting austerity measures until 2021, with monitoring until 2060, with the property of the Greek State - fourteen DCI among them that were voted on by this bill - in the excess of not a century - to God, we are not equal - but nine-year-olds - what Samaras had not voted for, but, according to Disellum, the objections of the Greek Government have been made because Tsipras has taken a completely different attitude - with the banking system being unable to deliver genuine liquidity - and that is not so much of an investment in the realisation of my money. I'm not convinced at all. Of course you, Lords of Government, have the hundreds of fifty - three who even object, orally or in writing, in the morning, to the fact that they will vote at night. So much has been said in the debate and, above all, on the two issues in the Multifibre Arrangement, namely the provisions on strike and family allowances. I will make two brief comments to make progress on legal matters. In terms of strike, the subject of public debate, ladies and gentlemen, must not be the abuse of the right to strike, but itself the right to strike and to exercise it. That was at least the essence of the New Democracy proposal. How, in other words, we will avoid abusive exercise of the right to strike when it comes to it, and not most people, or in any case many. The only thing to be imported is that the right to strike is limited. And it's limited by you. Family allowances: In 2012 - November if I am not deceived - we introduced the single child support allowance for the first and second children. So that's where the allowance was introduced to the first and second children. Subsequently from the Ministry of Finance, a support allowance was introduced to third parties and multiple families. With what you enter now, you simply choose - and it is a political option - to give more to more - that is families with one or two children who are and more - and to remove, to scissors several more than the families of the threeteen and the tents. This is a political choice, it's your choice. I shall speed up some specific points, because time is pushing too hard: As far as quarries are concerned, the relevant legislation is rightly updated. I think, however, that the interventions are relentless, because in the quarries and mineral extracts case, three basic conditions should prevail. Firstly, to reduce unacceptable bureaucracy at the level of licensing. Secondly, we must ensure a long-term horizon for lease power, because the investment in quarries is too expensive and pays off over time and not immediately. Thirdly, to ensure that the serious businessmen in the area operating within the framework of the law are assured, they are consistent in the forecasts, and they say that they have studied the environmental impacts of the quarry operation and invest millions, by making billions of GDP. It is a productive activity that has to do with primary production elements, it is extrovertible and highly competitive worldwide, before globalization is even invented. As far as the register is concerned, you are making two - one plus one - major mistakes. First of all, you are creating an Agency, which is anticipating that this new single body will work quickly and effectively. If, however, it works, ladies and gentlemen, at the pace and results of the existing public body, namely the National Land register and Mapping, the public limited company, then I anticipate problems. The crucial thing here is that mortgages are being abolished. The new body, the body to deal with the patenting of rights in the country and thus the protection of these rights, is responsible not for the Ministry of Justice, but for the Ministry of the Environment. It is a unique Greek peculiarity to combine the two institutions of the Land register and of the Landmarks. The new agency will absorb the responsibility of the mortgages. The mortgages, however, as an institution under the Constitution, are included in the provisions on judicial authority, because it is precisely the registration and control of property rights - legal by the nature of the procedure - entrusted under the Constitution to the median and unpaid mortgages with the relevant provision on judicial authority, Article 92 of the Constitution. There is therefore a very serious issue of the unconstitutionality of the relevant provisions. The S.T.E. it has acted in this regard, as has the Scientific Committee of the Parliament recently in its report on the subject. But there is also a huge risk: the substantial weakening of the legal safeguard and protection of the property rights of individuals in the country. You did what the World Bank says without turning to Greek reality. Too bad to destabilize the system in this way. I shall conclude, Mr President, with little tolerance. Intermediation: I told the committee that this was a negative achievement. You have turned the universal acceptance of all the factors of our rightful system into the need to strengthen the institution of mediation into a universal rejection of everything you come and legislate or almost everyone else. Today, the judges are posting a job and the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations has decided abstention, all except for Lacekimoni, but Athenians. But that's all. I think the proposed arrangements here serve a timely desirability. In fact, they guarantee credit - at the beginning - for the resolution of a number of differences, that is, they buy time, but perhaps in the course of the course they may cause a temporary decongestion of the burden of cases in the courts. Not at all. Lawyers know that the provincial courts are not overloaded with cases due to impoverishment and financial impotence of ordinary citizen to resort to justice. I fear, however, that temporary decongestion in the course will lead to extra overloading later, when it proves to be ineffective to recourse to mediation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u32	I'm done. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the WEU, the Organisation for the Promotion of Alternative Methods for Dispute Settlement, which speaks of a mandatory information protector. All parties involved must know that mediation is beneficial and good. That will embrace and make the institution really effective, without a negative prejudice, without a rejection of it. Therefore, at this stage is the organisation - information about mediation and not coercive it through the introduction of compulsoryity, which creates additional distrust and margin for the mistrust to make paradoxical tactics in the resolution process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Comrade, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u34	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u35	Yeah, but you got to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u36	The main issue in the debate is compulsoryity. I conclude with one sentence from a British court ruling. They said: "To oblige genuinely reluctant parties to refer their differences to compulsory mediation is to make them inadmissible in their right to access the court". But to encourage parties to agree more to be ordered and therefore forced to do so. We call that a blockade of access to the constitutionally regulated natural judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u37	Mrs Aphrodite Theophevette has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this bill gives us the key to the third assessment, without delays, without any further measures, as many people have been denied for many years. Despite the destructive anti-pollution line, there is no international economic centre that does not anticipate a successful exit from the memoranda next August. We have upgraded the country's credit rating capacity from international rating agencies, decline in unemployment, continuous decline in government bond yields, rise in Greek exports. 2018 will be the year of exit from the memoranda, a great success for the country and on a substantial but also symbolic level. In one respect, the imposition of the memorandums was based on excessive debt, on the one hand, and on the lack of basic structures such as a reserve, a fair system of taxation, an effective public administration, and the use of technologies. Such a basic structure - and I would like to tell you about it - is the National Stock Exchange, which would ensure reliable land policy integration. As we all know, it is a basic development tool and prerequisite, before the "A" i.e. for any design, in order to ensure both dynamic growth and the quality of life of the country's citizens. In each organised and progressive state, the Register has been completed with any government, whether liberal, social-democratic or co-operation. The completion of the register is considered to be self-evident. It is a critical factor in social, economic, environmental and democratic planning. How much would the authorisation process for small or large investments, small or large public or private projects, if we had already completed the Land register, namely a specific spatial description of the properties, which would have stopped any environmental, cultural, etc.- Oh, my God! What were the reasons why it has not been completed for twenty-three years? What were the reasons why more than EUR 2 billion was wasted in order to complete about 10% of the Greek area? Why was 20% of rights recorded in twenty years and 10% in the last two and a half years? The fact is that the first real estate was mainly urban, while as far as we go, we refer to the properties of the exotic area. Of course, as you know, there is also a need to put up forest maps and it took some fifteen years to put up 0.8% - or 1% - of forest maps. Did it really be a political choice not to complete the register and the forest maps, to cover all kinds of interests, to break public land and to have a hydrocephalic public with complex mechanisms which, while being used as a result of customer relations, were gradually deviated that this was, in view of the public nature of basic development structures? We therefore welcome the decision by the two Ministries, the Environment and Justice, on the new structure, because the National Register is and must remain public property and it must therefore be carried out by a public body in favour of the interests of society as a whole and the rights of workers must be guaranteed. This is because it is also social in nature, as it affects the safeguarding of rights, the protection of the environment, the control and transparency of land use, the development of the degraded areas and the development of the real estate market in them, while mapping isolated areas, facilitating investment, the rental market, rural land and urban property. Because the previous speaker mentioned it, there is no private body in the European Union. I am referring to the mortgages. Worldwide, as stated in the Report on the Bulletin 2014, the strategy of design, management and control of components of a real estate system - that is, on the one hand, legal information, rights and on the other hand, technical information, that is, technical characteristics, size, form and dimensions - all this system, in half the countries, is done by the same body, but in all cases it belongs to the public. In no country has the State lost control over the preparation and management of the register. It's still a public mission. Minister Stathakis said that at the end of 2020, 75% of the country's realisation will be completed. That's the way it is, because the remaining 25% refers to claimed real estate. And that's again for the two-way relationship, because there's no real estate register. There are claims and disputes that need to be resolved in the courts. Furthermore, Minister, I would also like to add to the register and the rules that we put in the quarry areas a point: in both cases we should look at the issue of island regions and the definition of quarries and the abolition of mortgages. Our islands have the peculiarities we all know, the peculiarities of exclusion. In other words, the twenty-four months which are given as scope for integration in these areas and after their entry into the Greek register should also apply to the quartz issues, that is to say, areas which probably do not have the necessary distances, etc. But the islands also need to be covered for private and public projects from these areas. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that every reasonable disaster and election is not helping. It shows not only a lack of arguments but also a lack of proposals that we need, which we now have to do to get the country out of the crisis. These proposals need the country to contribute to a dialogue and they cannot be concealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. John Rabbit has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u40	I will start by saying - we will emphasise this once again, so that people can hear it and know what is happening - that the way the bills are coming to Parliament and with which the House decides and legislates is really unacceptable. We come thousands of pages - a thousand hundred, a thousand two hundred, a thousand three hundred, as the case may be - and then they tell us ten, eleven and twelve hours that we have to go to committees and discuss four hundred - four hundred twenty articles. Some Members enter, most of them, and without even opening the first page to see what is going on, come and vote, because very simply these are the orders that come from your commanders, from the "coops", the international loan sharks, which are so many years away from our homeland. So the Greek Parliament is legislating, but it has nothing to do with Greek society and the Greek people. But the Greek people think, but the Greek citizen wants you to vote here. And you have the courage to say that you represent the Greeks! You do not represent any Greek citizen. You only represent your interests, represent the commands given to you and make the New Order game in which you are true slaves. And this bill will pass. We see that threeteen and tenteen families are really looted once again. We see that all the benefits of those who are the pillars of the Greek society and the Greek nation are cut. But that's exactly the problem with you, that with such people you don't want to have contacts, such people you want to punish them. Let us say something else and make it clear: the money taken by a third party or a multitude of families is not an allowance, in essence, but it is a reward for what they are doing. It's a reward for what threeteen and tense families get in all the advanced states, because they support their nation and their society. So this is where you deny it. After so many years you have come to the Greek people, you have reached the last points. You really rob them, cut everything off even from these groups that you should be careful of. The Golden Dawn has repeatedly stressed that money still exists from you now the Greek Parliament's lame and predators, which must be cut from the money you give illegal immigrants. And it's too much money. They can therefore be cut off and given to our Greek fellow citizens who need them. There's money. To cut off from those who smuggle our borders, to live illegally here, to commit crimes all the time, and you "screw them" and above you give them money. To see once again where you have arrived - you have seen it a hundred times, but you have no problem, because you are literally fatheads and you have accepted the role that has been temporarily assigned to you - I will say this. On Friday night, while the debate was coming to an end, while almost all the Members had left, a legislative improvement came from Tsakalotos, which said that it no longer obliges the financial stability fund to submit a statement of assets. That's a scandal! You have come and have actually given the members of HIDED and the Supreme Court, you have left them to operate uncontrollablely, because you know very well that what all of them are doing is illegal, contrary to Greek legislation and contrary to the interests of the Greek people. But you, by giving them immunity and without anyone speaking underneath, neither by Civic Opposition nor by any party other than Golden Dawn, are an alibi to them. And so you promise them that there will be no consistency for them when in a short time you will empty us the corner and others will come here to succeed you, but they were before you and they have reached Greece here. Because you're all involved in the little kitten of enslavement of our country. So you are going through the night, within the dark Ministers of the Greek "Government" bills at the expense of the Greek people and the Greek public. That'll be the time when you'll pay for it. You know, no one is above the law or above the judgment and the Greek people, as much as you've set him up financially at the moment, will react. He will react, because the way you act is authoritarian and disgusting. We will also be talking about topical issues, because about the Golden Dawn, we always count on national issues and give particular weight and we are prepared to sell our lives even if we are to save our country. There are these days the issues that are heard about the "Macedonian", which you have created, because there is no "Macedonian", there is the "Skopje". There are some hardships there on the northern border of our country, which, in this way, I want and see that they have a government of submissives against them, not only now, but also in previous years, want to take the sacred name of our Macedonia. They've seen people here who don't care if you sell the name. Besides, you left-wingers never cared about your ideology is that and you don't care if you sell out the name of Macedonia. But you have a problem, because while you thought that the Greek society would not react, you see that it stands firmly. You see that the vast majority of the Greek people, even now that they are fragmented financially, which is going through a very difficult time in everyday life, reacts to what you want to do. If you dare, democrats - Golden Dawn has told you more than ten, fifteen times for different bills or laws that you want to pass - do a referendum to see if you represent the Greek people or if you represent your international bosses, see what happens there. If Skopje is called "Macedonia", we know very well and we all understand it - unless some people do not want to understand it - that in a short time they will also raise a question of a "Macedonian minority" within our country. Don't you know that? Did we tell you? We were telling you about a week ago, when you brought this law to the so-called abolition of the Sharia in Thrace, that this is butter on the bread of those who say Turks over there, like this parliamentarian who comes into the Greek Parliament and speaks of the Turkish minority, Zabeck, whom you have and who you have? And when we told you last Tuesday, before he spent a 40-hour good - well, he went out and talked about a Turkish minority in Thrace. Ankara herself had raised the question that their mufts should be elected by them and not appointed by the Greek state. You have opened foreheads at the expense of our countryside everywhere. You're inappropriate. You're nationally dangerous. You're politically funny. You have to offer only one good, get up and leave quickly. We will stress that at the rallys of 21 of the month and whenever syllables are held - because they will always be in favour of our Macedonia - the Golden Dawn and all Greek citizens must be involved. "Macedonian" will be what will drown you and send you an hour before where you came from!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would like the floor to make a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u42	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u43	Refers to how payroll is financed in the register. The last subparagraph of paragraph 6 of Article 20 of the plan makes an express reference to an exemption from the rule of accession to the State. We remove this part and replace it with the express wording 'the cost of payroll is covered by the fees collected'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u44	Please be distributed. Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the multi-legislative plan that we are discussing today, the last in a critical period of eight years that we have already been through, which concerns the legalisation of some sixty prerequisites for the closure of the third assessment, is the first in the years of the crisis, whose positive arrangements are clearly more than the negative ones. This is essentially a series of interventions concerning mediation, the register, the simplification of the procedure for the authorisation of mining activities, health issues and a number of procedural issues, public administration issues and the strengthening of the tax system. Most importantly, however, there are no new budgetary measures in view of the closure of the third assessment. In other words, there is no new burden on citizens. In particular, with regard to mediation - to which I wish to limit my current intervention - it was introduced in Greece by Law No.3898/2010, which regulates mediation in civil and commercial disputes, incorporating the relevant Community directive into Greek legislation. So the institution has already been on a seven-year course. Unfortunately, however, it only managed to convince a thousand seven hundred seventy-seven lawyers and other professionals to make available from their laps and, in times of financial sluggishness, substantial sums as tuition fees for training providers in order to train and train them as ombudsmen. However, the fact is that the number of mediation in Greece over the years has been pitiful and cannot be hidden behind the secrecy of the procedure, which has been used as an excuse to cover the inability to collect data. The only evidence collected from the country's primary courts concerning the number of successful mediation practices submitted to them showed that the first six years of the institution's operation had been deposited in a total of about a hundred minutes. So this picture is absolutely frustrating and this image attempted to overthrow the Ministry of Justice by setting up a special legislative committee consisting of senior judicial officers, university professors, ombudsmen and lawyers with long-term experience in the institution, aiming precisely at reforming and the qualitative upgrading of the institution, so that Greek citizens and the judiciary themselves can acquire the right system, trust in them and use it as an alternative form of extrajudicial resolution of their differences. The aim is therefore that the Greek citizen should acquire an intermediation culture, that is, a concept of a friendly settlement of his differences, as is the case in all the advanced countries of Europe and of course worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, because a great deal of inaccurateness has been said about mediation, which is allegedly talking about privatization of justice, we must clarify that mediation does not compete and does not seek to restore the justice system, since it has nothing to do with it. It works along with this and constructively, giving individuals who have the power to make their differences available to them the opportunity to choose another peaceful way of resolving their differences, but who is faster, more efficient and more economical. The Ombudsman shall not issue a decision, he shall not substitute the Judge, but the parties themselves shall conclude, if they so wish, in agreement with the Ombudsman, who must assist the parties and dismiss their feelings. So those who are talking about an attempt to privatise justice have no idea what this is all about. This draft law introduces the obligation of mediation to a very limited number of only nine categories of cases, which by their very nature are receptive to mediation, as they all require the creation of a constructive climate of dialogue, which will ensure the voluntary and longer-lived agreement of the parties involved. The most characteristic example of such differences is family differences and differences between co-owners where corrupting court struggles poison the relationship between the parties involved and disrupt normal social co-existence. We do not mean the obligation to resolve the case by means of mediation, but the obligation to try to resolve a dispute by mediation. The Parties, after being informed of the institution, shall have the right to terminate at any time and without prejudice to the procedure and to refer the matter to their natural judge. This provision on compulsory attempts to resolve certain urban and commercial disputes through mediation does not innovate, but follows tested over a number of years and successful European standards. In the Czech Republic, in particular, we are seeing compulsory participation in information meetings on the institution of mediation, with a court order for all disputes. Thirteen Member States with precise legal systems make mediation indirectly compulsory, as they link it to economic incentives, through the reduction of legal expenses and expenses, while in five Member States, including Germany, England, Hungary, Lithuania, mediation is compulsory in certain categories of cases, with a more specific and exceptional example Italy. Our neighbouring country, whose citizens have a culture similar to Greek citizens and a judicial system with great delays in the administration of justice and similar problems, managed to resolve two hundred and fifty thousand cases every year through mediation. So one can easily understand that the success of the institution will manage to solve years of problems of our judiciary, will dismantle the judges' pins from those cases that would be resolved, in any case, in compromise and which, in any case, are plentiful to distant judiciaries, in order to be void. It will, however, limit the number of cases brought before the courts, which will help speed up the time of extrajudicial judgments. The Ministry of Justice has been in talks and dialogue with all the parties involved, with the legal associations of the country, with the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and has even proceeded to amendments until the last minute to ensure that the provision of compulsory mediation is fully compatible with the Constitution and our Union law and does not create any obstacles to freedom of access to justice. It has therefore further reduced the number of categories of cases subject to mediation from eleven to nine, limited the length of that appeal by fifty to thirty days and reduced the cost of recourse to it from EUR 250 to EUR 170, excluding the financially impossible citizens who are entitled to legal aid or those who receive legal aid from them. I would also like to point out the reform of the Code of Conduct for Ombudsmen and the introduction of disciplinary law for ombudsmen through the new provisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I must stress that the current mediation arrangements give all Greek citizens an historic opportunity to acquire a friendly culture of settlement of their differences, a culture that follows them everywhere, in their homes, in their work and in their family. Let's not let any syndicate voices tarnished this effort. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the Multifibre Arrangement opens the way to disbursement of the EUR 5.5 billion dose at Eurogroup on 22 January. After completion of the assessment, the upgrading of the Greek economy by international houses is expected to begin, as well as the discussion is expected to begin to identify medium- and long-term measures to alleviate the Greek debt, which will in turn pave the way for the crucial negotiation of exiting the program and the memorandum era. The truth is, however, that everyone, both internally and abroad, other than Anti-Population, admits that government policy has led to an improvement in the fundamental economic data, but also to a stabilization of the economic climate with concrete results, such as a reduction in unemployment by seven points, the creation of about three hundred and twenty-thousand jobs, an increase in the average income available, an increase in industrial output, an increase in direct foreign investment, an increase in private deposits.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u47	I'm closing, Mr. President. Of course, we are not celebrating with the vote of all the prerequisites, many of which are both heavy and difficult. The majority of Greek citizens are facing and will continue to face serious problems. In August, however, the country came out of this vortex. We are finally finishing with this great adventure, ratings, doses, infrastructures and threats of bankruptcy. All our wishes are to finish as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, just after Mrs Bakoyannis, I would like the floor, as a parliamentary representative, to ask the ministers two questions for an amendment and a legislative improvement tabled on Friday evening. The answers will determine our position on roll-call vote or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u50	All right, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with an observation which, I imagine, you have heard many times in this Chamber, but I feel the need to repeat it, even for the Minutes alone. You brought a bill to the House, consisting of four hundred articles, a thousand five hundred pages. Even the most honourable Member will be able to place himself on every article in fifty-seven seconds. Fifty-seven seconds, ladies and gentlemen, for articles that change our lives too many of our fellow citizens. Fifty-seven seconds you ask the Opposition to testify to your opinion. The argument that this is the last multi-project that comes to Parliament, and then the evaluation will be closed, I have heard of it many times. I have also heard the arguments made by the Ministers that 'you yourself have done the same'. Some of us in this House were saying the same thing back then. So they repeat them again today. There can be no serious parliamentary dialogue with last-minute changes. You cannot proceed only with promises - as you do today - to the Greek people trying to blur the waters. In fact, then, I will also stand up to very few of the articles, what time allows me. Firstly, I will repeat the issue of luxuries. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that Greece has a demographic problem. And there is no doubt that over time all parties and all governments were trying to support the multiple family. They didn't do it for voting reasons, Mr. Fotio. They did, because they were deeply convinced that this country can't sometime, in a hundred years, end up being 6 million of what it is today. You come and cut off the luxury allowance. You are saying that in a multitude of four children, with EUR 22,900 a year, you will cut off the allowance of EUR 3,200 and you will do it EUR 1,016. Possibly some of us who have large families and too many children have a sense of what a child really means to a family. So when you have four children and you expect them to live with that support, something's wrong. It is 40% reduction in family income to over 37,500 euros. He's a publutides! He gets absolutely nothing, he doesn't go to have four kids, he doesn't go to have five kids. In essence, that is, the government is abolishing demographic policy. I have heard the argument made by Mrs Fotios, who wrathfully appealed to the opposition saying that "we support the first and second children". Really, that's it. I shall therefore make a proposal to Mrs Fotou. We shall vote for the provision which increases the allowances to one and the two children, and instead of answering me 'I will' because 'they' have heard the islands so long about the equivalent when taxation has been abolished - you will now come to legislate here on the bill for the multitude. You will give them now and not 'will', Mrs Fotio, because now you are cutting them, as you are cutting off the ESS and eventually the pensioners are still waiting for what they will get. The second issue is the question of seizures, ladies and gentlemen. The subject of seizures is too big. I do not know whether the majority of SYRIZA have understood what is really happening today in Greek society. We have a thousand seizures a day. One in two Greeks owes the tax office, owes the insurance funds. You realise that what is being done today with confiscations of EUR 500 and beyond - that is, EUR 500 can be seized by the borrower - is monstrous. Because there may be three different seizures on the same borrower from both the insurance fund and the banks and the Greek State. Do you realize what will happen to this man? With the well-known logic of SYRIZA, you expect this to happen later, i.e. when the New Democracy government exists. But you are deeply at night, because the reality is that the state, namely the Greek State, is going on - and is going on today - in auctioning with zero protection of the first people - as you usually call it, and as it has a basis - housing. That's the reality. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are doing so by celebrating. I've seen people vote hard measures. People, however, who celebrate and vote hard measures, that is all SYRIZA has done. Thirdly, I heard Mrs Jackson's enthusiastic speech on mediation. At the edge of her speech she said two, three things that are right. He said: 'Yes, there is mediation in other European countries.' Yeah, but how? With financial stimulus. In other words, they gave incentives which made it clear to the party concerned that this is in his interest and that it has one hope that mediation will work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You, what have you done, ladies and gentlemen? You're making it compulsory. What's mandatory for a small business, you know? It means it starts with a cost of 500 to 1000 euros. Do you think 500 to 1000 euros have many Greeks today to give them to start an intermediation that they do not know if they will end up positive and do not know its outcome to go to court next? Is that the way to support the mediation institution? I too am in favour of the institution of mediation, but I am in favour of some logic which will ultimately not cost the Greek citizen what the way you have brought the mediation cost today. Third and last, I want to say a word about casinos. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I am responsible for the development sector and I am tired of coming to the House and asking the ministers questions and I say 'four children, give tax incentives to the newly-innovated, innovative businesses. Do something, get into the logic of the whole world, the whole of Europe. A tax incentive for an enterprise to move forward, etc.’ I came to a conclusion. The only thing that matters to the SYRIZA - ANEL government is the tax incentives for gambling, the only one. There has never been a bill before in the Greek Parliament that the only winners are the casinos. So far I've been saying you're doing it for the OPAP. I yelled, I said, okay, I'm ideologically against gambling. But, I said, OPAP will open, go to Evrytania, Karpenissi, there will be seventy square feet, drink, eat, go all the youth will play gambling. We have voted against it. And today you're coming for the casino? I'm not telling you that you didn't have the conversation with local government, you didn't talk, you didn't do it, you didn't agree. The Municipality of Mykonos cries, even the unfortunate Micheloannakis shouts for Crete and all that. To accept the logic that tourist areas must have casinos. Special tax arrangements for casinos why would they have, Mr. Chakaloto? It's not an operation? The company wins, loses and is taxed like all other Greek citizens. Why does this company have to have a special tax regime? And don't tell me that the three memorandum belligerents, who come and impose politics, are here to impose special tax treatment on the casino, because you tell me, Mr. Chakaloto, I don't believe it. So I would ask you very much, even at the very last hour, for reasons of equality and equalisation, to behave a little differently, put some tax incentives on new, innovative young people, who today come out and pay for the monsters who pay taxes and contributions, and that is where we shall vote. But get serious about casino issues. It's a pity to have you, besides everything else, and the retreat of the gambling government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u54	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u55	I will give Mrs Bakoyannis L.4354/2015, which has been voted on by this House, regarding the protection of the first residence, which is valid until 31-12-2018. And I am truly surprised by the parliamentary presence of so many decades to ignore the legislation in force. The law is very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u56	You say the law, Katseli?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u57	As amended by Stathakis law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u58	As you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u59	As you know. And to remind you that in relation to Katseli law, the Stathakis Act has three innovations. Firstly, it does not only protect from housing loans. It protects both the tax office and the insurance funds. So the overdue household goes to court to protect itself, as long as it can't serve it, from all the categories of debt. It's the first innovation. Second Innovation: Free professionals did not exist in the old Katseli law. In the new Katseli law, there are together with former traders who have lost their bankruptcy capacity which also did not exist in the Katseli Act. I would remind you that traders are neither part of the Katseli Act nor of the present law. Third specificities of the law: Every household with an income of up to 40.350 euros and a real estate of up to 280,000 euros of first residence has full and universal protection. I'm really surprised you don't know the law. I'll testify to him in the minutes of the House in the next ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u61	The Rules of Procedure shall not allow a Minister's comment to be made either in a speech by a Member. But let's be a little relaxed, it's okay. Mrs Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u62	I must admit that I too am amazed at the way Mr Stathakis presents the law, which applies. Mr. Stathakis may know the law, but you know the reality, Mr. Stathakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u63	Much better than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u64	Do you know that today we're talking about homes that are being auctioned? If that law existed, how can there be?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u65	Tell us one!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor but to shorten the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u68	I challenge them to bring an out-of-court first residence!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u69	Minister, it's not what you call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u70	All right, all right. I challenge you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u71	What is the autonomous piece of legislation to protect first residence?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u72	You've confused two things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u73	Don't refer us to any other laws. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Colleague, we need to help the process. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u75	Please! I repeat: I leave the general remarks and I expect something specific. So I challenge you: a first residence under the conditions of the law that has been auctioned. What you mention and create, obviously, confusion, is private by individuals, that is, you have borrowed someone and turned private by individuals. Neither the banks fall within either the public or the confiscations with the EUR 500 nor any of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u76	Is that the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u77	Individuals, creditors by individuals, who are engaged in commercial activities. It has nothing to do with it at all. I challenge you for the last time: A residence of a hired or freelance professional protected by law and being auctioned. Mia! I am addressing all the wings of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Stathakis and Mr Tsakalotos, because you are here and because you are talking about auctioning, I would like to tell you that on Friday afternoon you tabled an amendment to auctions in the public sector, taxes and insurance funds. I asked you a question on two issues and no satisfactory answer has been received. The first is that the Public Revenue Code in relation to the Code of Civil Procedure is not the same to protect the first residence. It does not explicitly provide for any protection of the first residence, even if the debtor fulfils the criteria of Katseli. Will these procedures be assimilated? That was the first question. The second question was in relation to the price that the auction under the price of the objective value may begin in one code, while the other code does not provide for that. The second question in relation to this amendment was precisely this and I asked you to have an explicit legislative improvement on these two, because, Mr Stathakis, the first residence is not explicitly protected from 1 May in relation to the public and at the same time, Mr Tsakalotos was not committed on Friday after 31st-12-2018, that any negotiation has taken place or that you will put it into the negotiation for the protection of the first residence in relation to the Katseli law. Therefore, instead of bringing legal improvement and ensuring and committing to the Greek Parliament for the protection of first residence with effective negotiation for after 31-12-2018 in relation to the Katseli Act and the public debts since May, you have brought legal improvement on another issue on Friday night. Mr Tsakalotos, we want an answer to this, because we do not have a clear answer on these issues to satisfy us and we will also put a roll-call vote on them. So second thing in relation to where you were...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you're supposed to ask questions. We don't speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, now they are being tabled, what are we to do? Thank you, but I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u83	Finish, please, if you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u84	Thanks for the tolerance. You had a clue - page 1292 of the bill - that all the members of the Board of Directors of the Supreme Council, the members of the management bodies of the direct subsidiaries, essentially submit an asset statement. And you brought the legislative improvement in which you add to the phrase: "Its direct subsidiaries..." and you put "the other than the Financial Stability Fund". And despite what you legislate, you have sent an informal briefing from your Ministry over the past few days that it is essentially not excluded for the members of the administration of the Financial Stability Fund. The question is clear: Are the members of the Financial Stability Fund obliged to submit any time? Or are you excluding them today? And you said other things about the judges in the previous period and you said other things today, because the lenders asked you at the last minute and you brought this legislative improvement. Apart from the fact that such a serious change does not take place with a legislative improvement. It's an amendment to discuss. He's not sneaking in. And we're not trying to make fun of the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u85	Minister, I do not give you time, but please very briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u86	I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u88	I won't answer the questions about auctions because I answered. You might have missed me when I answered these two questions. For what I wanted to say to you, what we are doing is a big step forward. In previous governments neither the HIAD nor the EBRD nor now the superstition had to do anytime. We agreed with the institutions, when the new supreme institution became a new institution, that it would go to the HFSF as one of the surplus funds without any change of regime. That is what the European Central Bank insisted on, namely that the transfer of the CFSF as part of the surplus fund - we had agreed, without perhaps seeing all the consequences - would not have changed regime. So what is now true is that the executives of the CFS are doing anywhere. The rest of the General Council don't do anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u89	So you're excluding them...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u90	But not to lose the main point. The main point is that this bill has a very large expansion of people who have to say where they belonged to both the HICP and the EBRD and the superstition itself. That's what I think you should keep.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Chakaloto, that is to say the administration of the Financial Stability Fund, you exclude it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u92	The executions, yes. Because we had agreed that a term to go the CFS under the superstition was not to change its governance system.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u95	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Theocharopoulos at least acknowledges - and does not lie to the New Democracy - that there is protection of the first residence until 31-12-2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u97	The banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u98	...and vis-à-vis the banks and everyone else, I repeat, as well as express protection against the government until March.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u99	May.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u100	May. Good. Speech. So the first residence falling within these categories is not threatened by the public, whether it sends a confiscation or not for EUR 500, 1000, 2000, or by a bank or another source. Now you're telling us what we're going to do on 31-12-2018. He said Mr. Chakalotos...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u101	It's about the first residence...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u102	Please, Mr. Comrade. We cannot monitor this dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, it is about the first residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u104	Yes, but an oral dialogue of this type does not help the House. We don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u105	We directly state that the system is fully protected. What we're gonna do then, here we are to talk about it. The government is committed and applies the full protection of the first residence for all these categories of social layers that they have, I repeat, first residence under EUR 280,000 of objective value and income below EUR 40,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students and two teachers attending from the 13th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, three years ago the Greek people were facing very serious dilemmas and historical choices. And then it turned out to oppose an agreement, which, as a professed architect, did not come out, opposes the prospect of thousands of redundancies in the public sector and complete dismantling of the private labour market, opposes the prospect of a definitive dissolution of the social state and, of course, the historically inherited and consolidated state of politics with economic power, with the victim of, of course, public resources, public money, public space. The Greeks and Greeks voted to combat unemployment, which has fallen close to 20% and will fall even further in the next few months to build social state institutions, such as social solidarity income, to support the child. And because a criticism has been heard and our political choice and our planning with criticism that is unstable - I would say - are mainly concerned with families who have no one, one or two children. There is the great possibility of intervention and support to the state and not to the smallest number of luxuries. However, opposition is deliberately confusing with the solution of the demographic problem. Greece has a very low fertility rate, 1.3 children per woman at fertile age. It is one of the lowest in the European Union. So it is well increasing the total budget for support for the child, which is well given to increasing the allowances for families who have one or two children. And, of course, the Greek people have also voted for negotiation in order to finally make the debt viable in the context of a European solution. Today, we are faced with the completion of the programme, with a clean out of new measures, from the programme, restoring the country's ability to meet its lending needs in the context of a European solution. Here, let me say this: there is a lot of talk about the prospect that was supposed to be about to go out on the markets in government, Samara. In this argument, a lie is condensed, a blatant indifference and a significant hidden truth. What's the lie? Lie, actually, I think it's an eyewitness. There was no case for going out on the 12-year-olds markets to be in 8% and for the country to have a fundamental liquidity and bankruptcy risk, just as we inherited it. There is also an indifference, because the conservative party, the New Democracy, the Right in our country, was ready to call a'success story' an exit to the markets, which was supposed to happen while unemployment was at 27% and the vast majority of Greeks or were in the range of poverty or were at the risk of poverty. And there's a hidden, but important truth. Who's that? The New Democracy was wanted, at least at the practical level, an exit without a European solution to the debt issue. What does that mean? Does it mean that it was fully integrated and ideologically and politically into the prototypes of the leadership of the German Ministry of Finance, which he said under Mr. Shoeble? That each country needs to settle its courtyard and its own control over the markets. That is where the fundamental difference lies. We have sought and achieved a European solution to the debt problem in order to establish solidarity in relation to funding between European countries and Europe to become an economic and political area where countries, progressive governments, can with their policies and without the pressure of increasing their interest rates and the threat of bankruptcy from the so-called'markets', be able to pursue policies to protect society. This is outside radar, the priorities of the conservative party in Greece. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to reforms that the New Democracy could never understand, and how much more to propose, especially at its wheel, is the most failed Minister for Administrative Reconstruction that the country has ever had, the Minister for Dismissals and the nominations at night by means of the ministerial signature of directors to the public. Not only are we bringing about the very important reform for the placement of public officials and the establishment of the register of directors, but we are also moving quickly towards the digitisation of public procedures. Already, the Ministry of Digital Policy has developed the electronic document handling system and a remote digital signature for its six hundred employees and next month, along with Olga Gerovasili, we will proceed with the development of the project as a whole for the public. So it is returning to normality, even in the field of information, because I would like to remind you that in the field of information - and particularly television - we received a public television caricature which was the course we all know and unauthorised private stations, a public one that was drunk and systematically removed from the obligation to regulate and intervene in this very sensitive area. At the moment we have the ERT that has stood on her feet, taking steps long before private channels to penetrate new technologies, such as digital radio and hybrid TV, which is the future. Of course we also have private television stations, which will now be licensed. Here I would like to call on the Conservative Party to revert to the recent past in relation to the arguments it has put forward about this burning issue that has so much troubled Greek political life over the last three years. He didn't hurt her before! Before they had all entered the autopilot of the assignment of public space! The argument for inexperienced television stations still support it? Honestly, I'm wondering. The National Broadcasting Council and the Ministry of Digital Policy have decided that there should be seven licences that would enter the notice. Only six candidates came. This means that there are limits to economic sustainability. Unless we want to bring down the bar so much that neither a programme limit exists for workers nor, of course, for the quality of the signal emitted. Here I think this is a very serious opportunity to make your self-criticism and as the public will receive for the first time from television licences, to - within introductory terms - 'coordinate' and to express positions that ensure the interests of the public. We are, of course, moving towards the licensing of radios. I start from this: no one should worry. Over the next few days, and as part of the agreement, the digital radio frequency map is also published, in which we will be able to broadcast for more than three hundred digital stations during the transition. There is no way that the FMs will not be shut down and no one needs to worry. Mostly, there is no need to worry about a station which is supposed to have workers, produces a programme, produce a product, and also produces a public service as a presumption. I would like to say here that, together with the municipalities, we will fight for municipal radio stations so that we can take all possible advantage of this process. There is no way in which we can move on to'shock and awe' policies. Once again, such policies were implemented in the field of information and were implemented with the closure of the ERT. We will also have a smooth transition and, of course, the regulation of the new television scenery. So no one should worry. I think that with dialogue we can also move on with this great reform without any concern either on the radios of the Church or on the municipal radios. I think it is a necessary legality and political priority, because here too we have received an anarchist regime, a non-authorisation regime, at risk from the institutions - and that is one of the few times I say it - to have the pressure to authorize FM, for analogue radio. There would be a risk of closure. There really would be too many problems. Why? Because capacity is much smaller, because if we went to the regulation without taking care of the transition to new technologies, there would be an extremely big problem. I think that we also have the marks of a recovery Greece, a Greece that acquires the characteristics of a modern country where the institutions are operating and the laws are respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Mr. Theodore Dritsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question for half a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u110	But on what issue, Mr Colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u111	What about this story, Mr. President? It'll be over...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Comrade, you're right. Just get in touch.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u113	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u114	However, any colleague would have a question to ask. So we don't have a meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u115	What will happen, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u116	Why doesn't my colleague go to ask him in person?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u117	I'll count thirty seconds, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Gioka, excuse me very much. [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Pappa, I have really listened with great satisfaction to what you have said. I would like to ask this: with the radio stations of the Church, will what happens to municipal radios? You know that the mission of the Church is social and has something to do with the religious feeling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Pappa, you have the floor for twenty seconds, "yes" or "no" for Church.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u120	I think I was perfectly clear. I repeat on the occasion of the question, Mr Ephremidis, that the battle will be given for municipal radio stations and for the stations of the Church, so that there will be the most favourable treatment possible. I would like to say, however, that we must not interfere with the procedure for the licensing of television with that of radio. Capacity is multiple, the cost of almost negligible. There is no way that this process will lead to an economic suffocation. I want you and those who hear us take this out of their minds too. Capacities are too large. I want to address all the wings. It's the technology that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u121	Minister, you have said that before. They've been made understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u122	Ten seconds. There is a great reduction in nuisance, because radiation is far lower and I think this is extremely important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u123	Until Dr. Dritsas arrives, I would like to inform you that at 14.30' the Prime Minister will speak at 15.30' Mr. Leventis, at 16.00' Mr. Koutsoubas, at 16.30' Mr. Mitsotakis, at 17.30' Mr. Theodorakis and at 18.00' Mrs. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing, like all of us, to Parliament and through Parliament, the citizens who are watching, but I feel the need today specifically for this reflection and the thoughts I will put forward to be associated with farewell to a valuable companion who will be buried in the First Cemetery, Thodoris Michopoulos in a few hours' time. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, which the House is asked to vote today, closes a circle and opens a new one. It closes permanently - we must guarantee this 'definitive' - the painful cycle of coercive, for the sake of 'financial adjustment' and 'necessary reforms', the application of restrictive policies, the recession and the poorness of the large majority of Greek society. The majority, however, not totalitarianness. Because even now, after eight years of marginal humanitarian crisis, some "offshore" or "lipolypters" of the black-band economy continue to live not only in the same way, but also trying again to salvage and reconstruct new "players" the new reality, the well-known selfish and intertwined ego of power, this ego that led Greece to bankruptcy. This build-up of bankruptcy today attempts to wash off by reconstructing the false narrative of the supposedly successful course of 2014, when we now all know that in the face of the absolute deadlocks of the upcoming evaluation, they organised their escape with the expectation of the "left parenthesis". Their aim is not to credit SYRIZA - ANEL - Oblogues the opening of the new difficult cycle again, but the cycle that is well founded involves positive goals of regularity and recovery. What are these positive targets? It's at least five: The completion of the loan contract, i.e. the Memorandum of Understanding, the renegotiation of debt, sustainable lending with a commission, but without a memorandum. This, however unequivocally different, has a relative, very significant difference, because it is a commitment to objectives, but not to instruments to achieve the objectives. It creates a relevant area, but freedom of choice and the enlargement of this area of freedom is in front of every government, every party, in every political system, to claim it, as is before and in society to claim it. Because this government has managed to create, at the same time, the binding fields and areas of freedom to keep society up. And he claimed that at every moment. The stabilization, regeneration and recovery are also positive targeting ahead. As remains and will intensify as a positive target ahead of - the fairer the distribution. Ladies and gentlemen, this prospect without any built optimism is visible. Expectation is valid, without any optimism false. It's valid, and without any celebrations. And that is true for the first time after eight years of bankruptcy and crisis. If we do not have this reading, then we cannot stand up to the real facts that we have to face up to the upcoming new difficulties. That is why the rabies reaction is being provoked. Because if in the difficult - I say again and insist on this - the expectations are confirmed and the planned and planned goals are achieved, then the New Democracy will be divided and the Right will enter into major adventures. That is why it explains everything about this rampant reaction and the refusal to participate in any reflection on the part of the Officerial Response on the imminent difficulties, the solutions and the unified attitudes that need to be held before this next period. That explains the trooper's agony before the penalty... Ladies and gentlemen, it is a systematic New Democracy's choice to abstain from the real political debate on the serious issues of the next day and to constantly devise foolish and irresponsible and dangerous tricks with a view to dismantling the government's plan. In view of FYROM's apparent ability to resolve the name, FYROM chooses the ridiculousness of the “declared”. In front of one for the first time configured step - step by step, a social state programme for the child with a significant increase in funding, discovers that the government is a'strength of luxury and family'! We heard. As we have heard on the other hand, this is a 'national crime'! Can one not think of the simple thing that, since it is considerably increasing the amount of family support and children from this government, would it be the easiest thing to change anything, not to displease any social group and have them with everyone well if it operated elections, ballots and irresponsibles? We might be wrong. But, anyway, it's a plan. It is a project that will also try to give answers - and it gives - to support all families and tritecs and luxuries. But it's a plan. I'm on my way. In this direction, therefore, SYRIZA is and remains a political force responsible for the left-wing creative perspective with contradictions and weaknesses. But that's it. It's a force that's going to fit in. and calls for this coexistence and for the competition of those who seek and want a fairer society, more human, more creative, more free, more independent and more confident. I close by omission too much from my speech. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are not yet moving in the sphere of freedom but in the sphere of need. In the sphere of forced will within the limits of real and hard negotiations. That is what we are voting on with respect to this criterion. We're not celebrating, we're not inclined. We insist that we be consulted and prepared the best days and claim them. Finally, we insist strongly that we know and recognise the importance of the fetch of the French Left's struggles that 'the only certain law of history is the surprise'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u125	Mr Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the Prime Minister told the Minister's Council that the class sign of this government will be made even more evident in 2018. We're totally in agreement. This polynomial plan is perhaps the most characteristic example that the government's class sign has indeed the seal of defending the interests of capital. In fact, this defence is now made not only by the carrot of mocking, as it has been all these years, but also by the whim of authoritarianism, by the slandering of popular mobilisations, by the provocats, by attempting to frame class struggle as a whole. That's the government's class mark. In order to find out who is fighting this plan, it is sufficient to see who is fighting it and who is defending it. Which bodies, which social forces and here in Parliament during the hearing of the bodies. Employees fight it. All those on the street in the last few days, in the Friday's strike, all those who will be at the rally today. The Association of Greek Industrialists and other representatives of capital are defending it, who have said from the beginning that the multi-project is in a positive direction. Your partners in the European Union and the International Monetary Fund are also defending it. In fact, the well-known "Geroon strong" Diaselblum made special reference to his farewell message about the government's contribution to making anti-grass measures easier. It is supported by the employers' and governmental union, part of which you are and which has prevented workers from being informed and mobilised in the past few days, when the labour movement is at stake. And, of course, they support it in their own way - but they support it in substance - the other parties, since their position, especially on the question of the strike, is clearly avaded. In particular, the position of the New Democracy with the misery of some Members of Parliament, Brutsi, who criticizes you for your athleticity, gives you the opportunity, in essence, to reproduce all this argument, that the changes you are making are imminent, something meaningless, something secondary. It is a argument that you have been resorting to in the last few days, after you have been ridiculed with what you said at the beginning, when you went to spend 'night' the measure, that the measure is supposedly for good, because it increases participation and democracy in the trade union movement. And all this, at the moment when you maintain the misery of 'persons' associations', on the basis of which an employer can agree with 15% of the employees to redundancies and wage reductions. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS, takes over the President-in-Office's seat at this point.]] Of course, all these government officials who - to say so - say today's 'Marie Antoinettes', say, 'all right, there's nothing wrong with the changes in the strike law', have nothing to do with the difficulty of preparing and organising a strike struggle. Because in what has emerged, especially in recent years, it has been the various blurred movements of the squares and the indignant, who have accidentally put everyone behind them - even the fascists - as long as the unions are outside. That's what you said at the time, "Outside the parties, "Outside the syndicates", because since then, before you even became a government, you have been hosting the organized movement and the organized class struggle. All of these refer to the strike as if it were a walk and cover the hard reality in the workplace, difficulties, threats, the fact that with today's data 95% of the strikes come out illegal and abusive. Suffice it to think that many of the primary schools, which a few days ago exceeded the position of GSEE and ADEDY and decided to take part in the strike, could not do so if the specific law you were going to pass today was in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u127	Why wouldn't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u128	I'll explain it to you. They couldn't, because the primary unions when they refer to a workplace, with workers with shifts scattered in workplaces, cannot collect within three days 50%. Don't you understand? What's the place of work? What Mrs. Ahchioglu says? Do we have 100 for two 50, 26 strikes? We're talking about shift factories. We're talking about factories spread over a number of workplaces. Therefore, this measure is clearly aimed at paralysis of the unions' activities, particularly in the decision to take the strike decision. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] So stop acting like nothing's going on. You have taken on a role: Dismantle the strike right. Whatever you say, you have taken the role of dismantling the strike right and pressing on all those who hate workers' struggles, unraveling over the last few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u129	Will you finally stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u130	Like the sigh...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u131	Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u132	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, go elsewhere and give a show.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u134	Let Mr. Gioka speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u135	It makes sense to lose their temper, because it is their own feat of what happens these days. If you see what is written and what is heard in the media by well-known and unexplained people who hate workers' struggles, you will see that they are undone. And what do they say? That it finally breaks the strike taboo. This is your accomplishment. It is yours and the New Democracy and all those parties that have been targeting the greater conquest of workers for years. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that the elements of your reactivation and authoritarianism are the changes that you are promoting in the institution of extrajudicial mediation. the obligation to make a number of cases subject to it before the court is brought before it. These provisions will work to the detriment of economically weak citizens, having to spend significantly more time and effort to meet their demands and, in essence, to be compatible with crumbs. Benefits, on the other hand, will be the various big companies, on the one hand by weakening their claims and on the other by ensuring a new level of profitability by setting up various associations and brokering companies. It is no coincidence that the institution of compulsoryity was a requirement of the Association of Greek Industrialists and the Association of Insurance Companies. Nor is it accident - and I am ending with this, Mr President - that the government is more king than the king. It even goes beyond the European Union's reactionary directive. The obligation of extrajudicial mediation applies essentially to Italy. And do you know who the country is where the institution of extrajudicial mediation is right now dominating? Turkey. Working differences. That is what you want, because the question is not whether the disputes will be resolved quickly. The question is, and what conditions are being created and for whom the differences will be resolved. All of this relates to the so-called 'post-memorandum era' and to development. You want to impose cemetery silence and it turns out that the measures will not only stop, but increase even more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. Mr Saridis, Member of the Centroon Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, to date, through their memorandums and implementing laws, such as the specific multiplier that comes to debate today, we continue to pay as a society, as citizens, an unbearable and disproportionate cost, because we have mainly allowed words to lose their meaning. And we did so, allowing that political speech to prevail in the public debate. 'Others say, but we mean others understand that we have spoken'. In this context, it is not a question of wondering where anti-government laws are being passed in the name of protecting workers' rights. When we left, ladies and gentlemen, uncontrolled action by the representatives of populism within the trade union movement, when we allowed frequent proclamation, without any real reason and without any result, of general strikes, the participation in which was ultimately determined by the same criteria as the date of the strike, namely when it was going to take place in the three-day movement, should then be aware and expect that one day it would be an argument for employers to feel that they are legitimate, to ask for what they are asking for, even though things have come and the world has ceased to strike, not because it has no reason to do so, but because the family budget is not able to do so. Words lost their meaning. And so while we voted for the recognition of the Day of May at the same time as we abolished Sunday's holiday this year until May's Day, fair and legitimate strikes will certainly be a past. As much as we are looking to see what Mrs Ahtsoglou once said and compare them with what she is doing today to understand the size of the political inconsistency that she described as indelibly the government of the 'first time left', it is not going to change anything. Conversions, cysts, obidial transformations are obviously allowed in Greece. This conclusion is not disputed by anyone. In our country saying other things yesterday, but today, other tomorrow, but here, not only is allowed and accepted, but you may also become Minister if you do so well and gracefully. And, of course, as Minister, you will be able to claim that you are building tomorrow's day responsibly, while you are cutting the benefits from the third parties and the multitude, you will be able to fight those who react because they don't understand very much that demographic is not solved by benefits, but by benefits. But no one has forced you to answer the question: what happens when there are no benefits and infrastructures? What happens then? What happens until they're made? None of the government feels obliged to answer that. Honestly, no one understands the arguments with which you support your legislative initiatives, as well as does not understand how all the changes are taking place in the public, the improvements, the modernisations, the rationalisations and all that will make the public more friendly, the services of the Greek public more friendly and more effective, to move forward at the well-known pace of the metro measures in my city of Thessaloniki, while the issue of electronic auctions has broken every record of time in its implementation. What other law, which has been passed in here, has been implemented so quickly and so directly, and has, indeed, also encountered so much social and political objections? Who? What message does this government send with this multi-project? Are you sure the way out this summer is clear? Where? From the madhouse? Words have lost their meaning, but that does not change the reality. What is being voted on here today is anti-grass, anti-development and anti-social. How you choose to characterize words does not specify their content. Same goes for Skopje. At the moment Greeks know what to expect in relation to the economy. The tax raid continues and growth is still coming. What they do not know, which concerns them much more than the pillaging of their pockets, is what the word "Macedonia" can mean for the political world. The reasons why the Central Association has consciously chosen to promote the name of Skopje as the most important of all are many and different, but equally important. Our view is that the government should explain to those who are pressing for solutions until May that the only way to convince the Greeks so quickly, so directly that the Skopje have effectively abandoned their own thoughts, as they are now described in their Constitution, as they are currently writing in their history books, as they have shown today that Mr Demetrov is asking for, could not be anyone else to forget the word "Macedonia". This is the only guarantee the Greeks would accept to convince them that they have no enemies at their northern border. Whatever else is presented as supposedly a move of good will, of good neighbourlyness, of good intentions, will go to the bronto. This position was also expressed in Bucharest and was what many people are currently calling the Karamanlis line. These last few days we have come to ask ourselves again, what is the Karamanlis line? The Macedonians thought until yesterday that in Bucharest we had won a national victory. The feeling until recently in Macedonia was that in 2008, at a national proud time, Macedonian Prime Minister Karamanlis did his duty and despite the pressures exerted on him, he refused to deliver the name. And, in fact, many add that he paid for it. Then, of course, with the help of France, we have led to what we now call Bucharest's'veto', which, of course, has never been formally exercised, but has been real enough to lead the country to elections. Therefore, according to the way Macedonia and Thessaloniki perceived things, we cannot talk about faith in the 2008 Karamanlis line, without at the same time excluding any use of the name "Macedonia". Over the past few days, due to serious expressive and communication errors and members of the government, and almost all representatives of the domestic political system, it seems to be trying to reverse this, claiming that it is a very consistent development of Bucharest's attitude to retreat to the name issue. This is for us and for no sensible people. We call ourselves a liar, who interprets the facts of that time arbitrarily to support the false, that is, since then Greece has agreed to deliver the name "Macedonia". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, Christos Mandas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the multi-brand plan in the midst of the pain of the sudden loss of our fellow fighter of the Left and Journalism, Thodoris Michopoulou. Thodoris was an activist of life with unparalleled humor, rare political insight and morality. We don't forget you, Tedor, we don't forget your smile and your courage. Ladies and gentlemen, the multi-project we are debating today and its vote is, as is well known, a key step towards the closure of the third evaluation. In fact, as is also well known, this process goes on to the basis of the technical agreement recently reached. And, however, it is as if it did not last one day, if one remembers the difficult circumstances of the two previous evaluations, when the "inhabited Europe" called on us to close, for example, the second assessment, while they knew very well that the disagreements of the IMF with the other institutions were the ones that were delaying us and eventually led to another difficult compromise in the summer of 2017. We also remember, of course, the war situation in the parliamentary procedure and the New Democracy's fire requests for recourse to the polls. However, all this is certainly behind us, not because we all suddenly loved us, nor because we have given it all, as our opponents claim, as the best servants of the system, but because, beyond the other factors that have evolved in this period, we have managed not without difficulties and losses - it is true - to have a consistent and committed attitude to what we agree and to constantly claim better positions, small but essential steps, through tough negotiation, for the social majority and for the world of work. It is behind us, because the economy, despite the great difficulties we still have before us, finds its pace and because we are carrying out institutional areas that actually modernise this incredible bucket of customer logic and interdependence. They are behind us, because we are taking initiatives that take advantage of our country's geopolitical position, and we are a factor of stability and cooperation in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in fact in the presence of a multi-legislative plan which I am absolutely sure many of its provisions would - or may - find - the agreement of a wider majority, even though they are discussed under pressure, not by an article and a law, but by separate chapters and articles. Who, then, will disagree or cancel the essential steps taken with the establishment of the Greek Stock Exchange, a legal person governed by public law that will finally, after decades, complete the country's acquisition, ensuring uniform rules and guaranteeing basic rights for citizens and the public interest? Who, therefore, disagree or will cancel the essential steps in Latin legislation, which ensure transparency, modernise the landscape and eradicate gray zones, unify the legislation that was dispersed into ten separate laws? Who, in turn, disagree or cancel key promotional options on the part of the Ministry of Economy, which extend the rapid licensing procedures and the effective controls in the operation of businesses, or even create a promotional framework for the creation of business parks, even for a single, large enterprise, or, finally, give a substantial solution for small and medium-sized bakers by reviewing the legislation which gave unilaterally privileges to large chains? Who will, then, disagree or cancel the over-priced allowance granted to pay employees in a bank bankrupt or, even more, to restore the minimum rights of employees at the CBELs and to tourist buses? Who, for the first time, will disagree or cancel the provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on the possibility - for the first time - of electronic monitoring of the execution of public or private projects or of the tendering and signature of a public contract for the installation of a full electronic analogue toll system across our national network? Who, then, will disagree or cancel the new Economic Crime Research Directorate, which will facilitate, with targeted interventions, effectiveness in the fight against tax evasion? Who, then, will disagree or cancel the new system of assessment and invoicing of medicines, which finally sets complex rules, in line with European standards, in this process? With all the above, I think that certain provisions of the plan are evident with a positive, progressive sign. I now come to some of the provisions that have reasonably concentrated political controversy and are points on which I would like to say what I think. First of all, I should like to refer to the change to form a quorum in the primary unions. Indeed, there is a change in Law 1284 concerning primary unions, which do not have a global or supranational scope. There is nothing to change in terms of the procedure of how the strike decision is taken, namely by a relative majority at the primary level, and nothing to change in relation to secondary organisations and, of course, the tertiary organisation and the way in which the strike decision is taken. This article is, of course, a compromise, which, however, effectively counteracts the extremes of the IMF, which sought to erupt all trade union law and the full immunity of employers' arbitrariness, which is now abundant. The New Democracy and the interests it serves at this point want to hide. But I'd say their rush to unleash what was conquered with hard struggles doesn't leave them. Under the pretext, supposedly, of democratic procedures, they coincide with the IMF to make the claims of workers more difficult, especially now that the conditions for reintroducing collective negotiations and conventions have been formulated. I would like to add that the criticism from our left is the criticism that the Communist Party reminds us of during the Middle War, let me say, which, in an extreme way, is approaching today's reality, identifying a force which knows very well that it defends the rights of workers with the opposing interests. Secondly, with regard to family allowances, I would just like to ask, firstly, that we be serious about the debate on demographic and its connection to benefits. If one takes a look at how demographic data is evolving in different parts of the world, one will realize that the issue of how a population is renewed or ageing is much more complex. In any case, I imagine that we all agree that multi-level interventions are needed to address the problems of our country and of Europe and that it is not the hatred of SYRIZA in the multitude family, as Mr Vorides claimed, which affects the multitude family. So what happens to family allowances is that a system of rules and transparency is finally in place in the place of a non-system. One can easily see this if one is careful to see the old way of granting family allowances. With this system that we are establishing, the total amount that goes to family benefits is actually increased by 40%. Indeed, more than seven hundred thirty thousand families in the total of about eight hundred thousand will receive very significant aid. The family allowances system is complemented by our interventions to create tens of thousands of new jobs in nursery schools and to expand school meals to the hundreds of thirty thousand school meals, as all savings from the cost overview are directed at child actions. In fact, there are reductions in half the households of three and tents, while the rest of the fifty thousand houses of threeteen and tents in the lowest income category receive very significant increases. These reductions, these problems that have arisen from the implementation of this new system - as has already been said - we believe that we will be able to deal with them in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate one way or another of the disaster scenarios and allegedly arguments which have been answered many times. Those who went bankrupt the country, who blew off the public debt and lifted unemployment continue to appear as saviours. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not hiding the difficulties. We are not celebrating and building false success scenarios. We are fully aware of the many difficulties facing us until August, but then. However, we also have a full commitment to building a country with new rights for citizens, with new institutional and progressive reforms, which do away with the gray zones of the client-state and interlocutory, which can build the conditions for as long as possible, with the connections to the environment of neoliberal globalisation, fair growth, which will be the vast majority of society, the world of work. We are building a country that is already a pole of stability and peace in the region, trying to solve problems that have been badly abused for decades, in terms of reciprocity and of general benefit to the peoples of the wider region. Those who honestly, despite the very great difficulties, despite the very great injustices, can see the course of policy being applied without bumps, I think they can see a hard and systematic effort to get out of the vicious circle of crisis with society upright. On this road we will continue and move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too. Independent MEP Mr Panagulis will now speak and then the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development will speak. Here, Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I will try in a few minutes to say my views. Once again the government that likes to be called a left-wing partner and complicate the far-right'red lines' brings a very large-scale plan of thirty-thirty-one pages and shares it a few hours before it is discussed in the House. The government unreservedly admits that it has handed over legislative power to the Troika. The President of Parliament has great responsibility for this, which, unfortunately, does not respect the democratic procedures and the Rules of Procedure of the House. We do not forget the phrase of the President of Parliament, who said a while ago cynically that "we often violate the Constitution." This multi-brand, ladies and gentlemen, impoverishes the Greek people even more, strengthens the Greek family, the Greek economy, abolishing everything with blood and sacrifices. I am referring to the order for the strike to be strangled. The greater conquest of workers undermines this bill, all these rights of the labour movement, wanting a submissive working class. October 1884, Chicago: The American Federation of Labour Unions adopts the slogan eight - eight - eight hours work, eight hours education and entertainment, eight hours rest. You're ruined by your bill, the above, won by struggles, blood and dead. For example, I will mention three examples of the hundreds of thousands of people present in Greece from the labour movement. Volos, 1909, three workers are injured by bullets. Sheriff, 1916, thirty-four miners are injured and four are killed. On May 9, 1936, in Thessaloniki, twelve workers dead and three hundred injured. You want the Day to be forgotten. Because, I will remind you, it is not a holiday, but it is a strike, a word that is no longer unknown to you and rather unsuccessful to your new language code. I deplore even more, ladies and gentlemen, because the abolition of the strikes will be voted on by people who once took the lead in strikes and incitements. Really, how do you feel? Do you have your conscience quietly? How will you apologise, ladies and gentlemen, to the court in times when our fellow men will have lost the biggest weapon, the strike, against exploitation? Have you realised that you're constantly mocking the workers? Apart from the question of strike, which you are trying to strangle, do not forget that no law and no regime can restrict workers' struggles. But now I will also stand in Article 242 of the total 399, which states that thousands of contractors, who have promised them a few months ago that you will now be permanently resident in Article 242. I want to see what lies you'll find for these people. I'm going to stand on another serious subject, the demographics. In 2016 - for those who do not know it - the population in Greece decreased by two hundred and sixty thousand. In a decade or fifteen years, if this catastrophe continues, the population of Greece will have reached about six million. And what do you do about it? Instead of strengthening new couples, tritecs and multitude families, you reduce their poor incomes, no matter the drama of the maintenance of the multiple family. With more courage, the dear and sympathetic, otherwise Minister of Finance told us that he was a third-party. He forgets, however, that foreign banks have hundreds of thousands of euros and dollars. Although I have asked him seven times in this Chamber to answer a timely question if he has brought it to Greece, he has deceived Parliament. On the other hand, the Minister forgets to tell us that his wife as an employee of the Bank of Greece - well does - takes about EUR 100,000 a year. How, then, can we steal his statement above? As an inflaming English humor or that the Minister has no contact with the Greek reality? Ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly refer to three - four issues. You're reducing the subsidy for heating oil. I will remind my friend, Mr. Stathakis, that in the beginning of 2016 three ministers from the Ministry of Finance came out and told us every quarter that they would stop the capital controls. We arrived in 2018 and the capital controls remain. The hospitals are in a terrible state. Auctions continue and the government goes on to say that it gives a hundred thousand piles to children. But this shows the drama that the Greek people are going through today. And another thing you need to be careful about, Mr. Finances, is the new licenses you give for casinos. Old casinomen pay around 700,000 euros a year. The new people will only pay 90,000 euros if I'm not mistaken. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say with love that the ministers must take care of their associations, because there are also nails and rats. I am referring to Diaselblum: "Everything was easy with Tsipras and Tsakalotos." That is why I am voting against with all the strength of my voice this disgraceful bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. The speech is made by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr. Haritsis, who will also be tabling legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to put forward two legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, at the meetings which were preceded by the committees and by the plenary in the last few days, the debate has mostly revolved into some of the provisions of the bill which are really difficult, which are the result of a tough negotiation. But almost no debate has taken place on a number of regulations and provisions which are also a majority in this piece of legislation and which, in our opinion, create a positive mark on the economy. This development, the fact that positive provisions are beyond negative, is not by chance, as for the first time we have a multi-brand plan that shifts the burden from the fiscal adjustment measures, which have so far been dominated by reform initiatives that are crucial for the next day of the Greek economy. Such arrangements are also the arrangements that the Ministry of Economy brings to the present multi-legislative project, which, as I will immediately show, catch the yarn from the respective reform efforts of the previous period. I shall therefore begin with the interventions to simplify the licensing procedures for enterprises. I would remind you that with Law 4442/2016, which was voted on here in Parliament in December 2016, companies can now with the new notification regime immediately start operating on a single day and by a simple electronic procedure, while, before, with the previous system, they needed on average thirty days to obtain the relevant licences. In this new regime, the control process and the strengthening of state control mechanisms are a key component of the reform - I will then come back - but in relation to the authorisation procedure itself in this multi-project, the law specialises and extends to more categories - framework 4442/2016. It is also extended by the incorporation into it of additional economic activities and, of course, its use is expanded to more and more productive activities of the Greek economy. It is characteristic that by the summer of 2018, it will have joined this new simplified licensing regime, according to the design, more than 90% of all the economic activities carried out in the country. Already more than twenty thousand companies have joined this new system through the new information system set up in June 2017 and allows for simplified business operations. Now with the multi-project we are integrating important activities into the regime, such as logistics, but also quartz and mining activities. The Minister for Energy has mentioned this in detail. In addition, we are bringing provisions that are important to simplify the licensing procedures of business premises. Installation permits are now given in the new institutional framework for the maximum extent of the nuisance of enterprises. This means, in practical terms, that no interim approvals are required for any addition of equipment or modernisation or extension of an undertaking, which has so far been an obstacle to the expansion and expansion of economic activity. In fact, we have been in distortion many times, such as the fact that companies preferred to pay the relevant fines imposed by the services than to go ahead and engage in long-term re-authorisation procedures. In this way, therefore, the administrative costs are reduced for both enterprises and for the public and, of course, the public interest is better protected. As I have already said, this new licensing procedure, so that it can function properly and in terms of public interest protection, requires the modernisation of the framework of controls and market surveillance. That's exactly what's happening in the plan. We are therefore completing this great reform with a comprehensive, comprehensive framework that we bring to the test, shifting the centre of gravity to the real operation of businesses. The checks will now be carried out in real operating conditions rather than in the standard way in which they were carried out in advance to date. This is a way of carrying out controls much more efficient and more powerful for the protection of the public interest, the health and safety of citizens and workers and also for businesses themselves, so that they can escape from the logic and practices of unfair competition which have prevailed so far. In the new institutional framework for control and market surveillance, therefore, uniform principles and procedures for control mechanisms are laid down, common methods and tools are introduced for the exercise of supervision and the rights and obligations of the supervisory authorities and, of course, the audited economic operators themselves, namely undertakings, are clearly identified. Mixed control steps by different services and authorities are also provided for in order to concentrate and accelerate the control process. The overlap and inability to cooperate between the various public administration audit authorities are being addressed, and an integrated IT system is also provided for, which will implement the new institutional framework and an electronic register of auditors to strengthen controls with additional potential and ensure their transparency. Apart from the individual regulations, what is very important to us is that, for the first time in the country, a simple, coherent and clear framework for the authorisation and supervision of enterprises is being established, a framework that makes a decisive contribution to economic growth and to the creation of new jobs, facilitates investment and the establishment of new businesses, reduces administrative burdens and ensures the public interest effectively. Apart from controls and licensing, that is, the completion of this very large, very important reform of the institutional framework governing economic activity in our country, the plan also includes a number of other measures which are coming to improve the productive environment in a number of sectors of the economy. I'll report them quickly. I'm starting at business parks. To date, we have an unreserved landscape, an anarchist environment in terms of industrial activity with informal industrial concentration. This is the first time an integrated effort has been made to record the current situation but also to provide incentives, institutional and financial, for the establishment of existing and new production activities in organised structures. Already by the NSRF, the new development law, as well as the Infrastructure Fund, a number of financial incentives are provided for the creation of business parks and the establishment of businesses in them. This is also accompanied by regulations contained in this multi-brand plan, which are very important, since for the first time a large business unit, for example, is treated as a business park and enjoys the advantages accompanying it. The aim is, therefore, to bring order into this anarchist field, with interventions that are important for the protection of the environment, the safety and health of workers and the improvement of the quality of life of citizens in the areas where industrial activity is carried out. The second category relates to the implementation of public projects. We all know very well that there are specific difficulties that govern the procedures for the execution of public works. So, in cooperation with the appropriate ministries, we bring in the specific multi-legislative regulations that speed up the implementation of public works, confronting problems relating to archaeological work and expropriations. The delays that have so far been borne by the public funds are inconsistent with unreasonable compensation. We therefore believe that these regulations restore a more smooth environment for the implementation of public works. The third very important area is the modernisation of the institutional framework of the Industrial Property Organisation. And because a lot of discussion has taken place in recent years on innovation, on the need to strengthen innovative features of the Greek economy, we are establishing the concept of certified patent adviser and we are creating an Academy of Industrial Property, in collaboration with Greek and foreign academic institutions. We are modernising and creating a single coherent framework for the Agency for the first time after thirty years of operation - institutionalised in 1987 - so that the financial and institutional incentives for Greek small and medium-sized enterprises are provided for the development and use of internationally regulated patents. Fourth and lastly very important area - and we discussed it in consultation at the hearing of the bodies - are the bakeries. The existing framework is governed by a 2007 Act, which laid down up-to-date criteria and conditions for the Greek market data for the establishment and operation of bakers. This law not only closed the market for small and medium-sized bakers, but also directly jeopardised the operation of hundreds of existing small bakers mainly in the Greek region, in mountain and island regions. In practice, this law was never applied, as with continuous extensions to its practical application the bakers were held in a quasi-host regime. Therefore, with the specific intervention we are bringing to the plan, after a long-term dialogue with the federations of bakers, we come up with regulations which put an end to this unacceptable situation. We introduce building criteria that meet the real picture and the needs of the bakeries in Greece, which will not affect the shops that already operate, but will make it easier for young businesses to operate in the industry. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements which I have presented very briefly come to you to improve the economic environment and to solve chronic problems that hamper development. It is the result of hard work and sincere and exhaustive dialogue with the producer organisations involved. It is no coincidence that several of these bodies were placed very positively in the specific provisions and in the hearing of the bodies that took place in the House a few days ago. We are not legislating without the citizens and bodies, but in constant dialogue and consultation with them. The doors of the Ministry of Economy are and will remain open to everyone. But we don't stop here. The next period followed by similar important legislative initiatives for industry, which is a very important sector in our development planning, but also for the Public Investment Programme. I believe that the work that we are doing in the institutional field complements the corresponding effort we are making in the financial field, which has brought our country for a third consecutive year to the top of Europe in the absorption of Community funds and in the utilization of the resources of the Juncker project. This resulted in nominal terms in 2017 to invade the Greek economy more than EUR 8 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek economy is entering a new orbit. This is not an assessment of the government. It results from the same data. It must be very poor not to see the remarkable budgetary progress, to improve the economic climate, as reflected in the MarKIT and IOBE surveys, but also in the growth of important macroeconomic sizes, such as industrial production, exports, private consumption, and especially new jobs. Far from us, of course, bi-British logical and meaningless celebrations. We know that things remain very difficult for many of our fellow citizens. But we can safely claim that the very difficult things are behind us. But these developments - and this, in our opinion, is very politically important - have not been carried out automatically or magically, but are the result of specific political choices. We believe, after all, that it is the policy that determines developments in the economic field. As the outbreak and the deepening of the crisis were the result of specific political choices, the improvement in recent months in the economic indicators did not occur at random. The development of the economy, as we understand it, in terms of justice and sustainability, is built day after day, with initiatives such as those I have presented to you to improve the economic environment, speed up economic activity and the effective protection of the public interest. We expect, therefore, that the change brought about by this plan not only concerns its content but also its structure - we are escaping from the logic of the polynomial designs of an article that has prevailed in the past - to see the attitude of Reconciliation by whether it will vote in favour of these positive initiatives in our view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, please, I would like the floor to make some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u147	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u148	The base torso is for the casino part. I explained them to you in my speech on Friday, so I do not need to tell you again what changes exist in this regard. You'll see them already. We move forward with the following legislative changes: in the explanatory memorandum to Article 399, in verses 2-4, the words ‘and the opinion of the Board of Experts of the Private Property Act of Law 3986/2011 (A'152)’ are deleted. In the recital in Article 399, in verse 5, after the word ‘Fund’, the words ‘Assessment of the Private Property of the State of Law 3986/2011 (A 152)’ are added. In the explanatory memorandum to Article 399, in verse 5, the word ‘criminal responsibility’ shall be deleted after the word ‘and’. In the explanatory memorandum to Article 399, in verses 5-6, the words ‘the said Council’ shall be replaced by ‘the Council of Experts of the Fund’. I would also like to say that we include the following ministerial amendments: the amendment with a general number of 1436 and a special number of 229, the amendment with a general number of 1437 and a specialist of 230, and the amendment with a general number of 1438 and a specialist of 231. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, too. We will follow the order of speakers first, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Megalomustakas, then, Mr. Pafile and Mr. Dendias.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I too would like to make some changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u152	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to say in the explanatory statement to the draft law - so I am referring to the explanatory statement - that in paragraph 3 of Article 59 of the draft law the word 'project' is replaced by the word 'working' in the number 3, which refers to the number of workers taken into account in determining the amount of the infringement. Secondly, Article 72 of Law 4442/2016, introduced by Article 67 of the draft law, replaced the deadline of ‘four months’ for granting the approval of an installation by the Minister for the Environment and Energy in accordance with Articles 7 and 8 of Law 4442/2016, as from the six-month period, instead of four, while adding to the beginning of the last subparagraph of that paragraph: ‘Application shall be granted within three months’. This subparagraph shall apply where an application or information on the dossier is found to be inadequate or inaccurate, in which case it shall be returned to the operator who may resubmit it, after having been completed or corrected in accordance with the instructions of the service in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u154	The Minister, Mr. Kontonis, also has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I am speaking only to inform the House of some legislative improvements. They are improvements in terms of text expressions. I would ask that they be distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u156	President Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Allow me to express my warmest condolences to SYRIZA for the loss of Theodore Michopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous governments, by January 2015, submitted multi-brand plans to meet obligations stemming from support programmes. I want you to remember the political and social climate of those discussions in Parliament, the attitude of the then opposition, the attitude of the trade unions, the attitude and the communication system. I think this will help us to have a rational and responsible debate about the principle of the bill and about the strategy it does not have, but the country must have, as we move towards the end of the third memorandum, the memorandum of Government SYRIZA - ANEL. I have also sought in the explanatory memorandum and in the debates in the committee the principle governing this draft law. It could be said that there is a reformist motto or rather an anguish to prove that the government can apply the agreeds at the very last moment, such as - like, arrogance - nor, in any case, the principle governing this bill is that "we are here, the good processors, even without a plan, but without a negotiation, because we must present as government a socialist communication and not real in August 2018 with the end of the project, so that there is a new illusion that we are now out of the memorial and we have touched on the infamous and well-familiar exit from the crisis". There have been two interviews this weekend, one by Mr Dieselblum and one by Mr Viser, who I think are actually helping us identify the principle that actually governs this bill. Mr. Diaselblum, confessing after leaving his duties, told us that the current government after June 2015, that is, after the six months of the great and tragic adventure, was not just a government willing, a government seeking to prove that it is doing "delivery", as the response to the obligations in the Brussels dialect is called, but is a government entirely enduring, a government that actually uses a double language, which still appears with some elements of radicality inside, but has delivered everything where the front is. Mr Vizer reminded us, as I have said here on several occasions - you are tired of hearing it - that on the major issue of debt any parametric changes will be gradual and will be conditional. So, anyway, there will be a memorandum, an heresy that will follow the country for many years - for many decades for accuracy - precisely because precious time has been lost, it has not been estimated and the 2011-2012 strategy has not been adopted. And when one runs away from implementing a policy that slandered it, undermined it and now adopts it, without understanding it, he obviously always has problems. So the bill again tries to serve the dual language that is foreign subjection - not only on the front of the economy, but I am also afraid of other more important fronts to the national situation, as some manipulations in the sensitive field of foreign policy - and an internal diversion. External submission, internal diversion. Because there are always internal enemies, not only politicians, opposition parties, political persons, entrepreneurs, but social enemies, the first aim of the declining middle class. And of course the internal distraction has a field on which it is evolving, which is always the field of institutions, justice, the legal order, the rule of law. Because even the acceptance of democratic perceptions is always done with an understated authoritarianism, an authoritarian democracy, a concept of a majority that does not correspond to the so-called liberal democracy. The policy of the government is the policy of communication and everything and the majors are sacrificed, as shown by the Erdogan visit and by the management of the issue of Turkish officers and the issues relating to the naming, the issue of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, where we have an extremely dangerous internalisation of foreign policy. This issue has become an internal issue, an object of dispute even in the internal market, without respecting the fact that a silent, serious, professional, responsible negotiation with a national consistency must be conducted, with a consensus leading to a result and this result being brought to the attention of the relevant institutions under the Constitution. All this is being sacrificed, because we always have to make internal consumption tactics and tactics. Of course, his 'philosophy' bill serves the well-known purpose for which we spoke in the budget, the objective of clean exit, as I said. Only now we understand what this clean exit is. Clear exit is the naked exit to which the partners lead us, having - as we have repeatedly said - founded and operating supervisory institutions until 2060, having made commitments in relation to budgetary objectives and, in particular, the primary surplus. But, of course, they keep us under discussion on debt measures, they keep us under discussion the size of the hybrid shape of cash reserves, for which I have tabled a question and a request for documents to be lodged with the Minister of Finance. I expect specific numbers and concrete responses to all the issues that are a central, central point in the debate on the state of the economy after August 2018, given that the behaviour of the markets cannot be predicted. The behaviour of the markets is dynamic and contradictory. There are externalities, as we say, which affect them and you cannot solve major problems, such as debt sustainability, using mechanisms which are short-term by nature, such as the size of interest rates, repos, the enlargement of the state's dues and so on. We will see, then, what this hybrid scheme is to be presented, to understand the size of the problem and to make the comparison, which I have proposed, with the preventive credit line of November 2014. The structural measures now, which, with some element of apostolic, blindly passionate and remorselessness, are being promoted by the government and by this multiplier plan, are supposed to lead to where? They lead to the modernisation and competitiveness of the Greek economy, right? So they serve an open competitive economy and a corresponding society. However, this needs, as I have said before, a strategic perception of how you are doing it and how you are making use of it. Of course, it must also be made up of institutional guarantees. Well, whatever you do, any interventions you make in relation to casinos, in relation to drugs, in relation to the new address for economic crime and pre-examination, in relation to quarries, in relation to the register, in relation to justice and the alternative ways of awarding them, which are extremely critical and useful, such as mediation, nothing is done if the fundamental conditions are not met. The fundamental social condition is the middle-class. Without middle-class it cannot function an open competitive society that can cover lost soil and lost time. What was said some time ago "medium-class" in Greece cannot be reconstructed with the existing tax and insurance regime and the current economic framework. Without real support to entrepreneurship, not deals with a few individual major interests, it is not possible. In particular, without a society that has actually adopted the reform programme, it is not possible. This bill and all other moves by the government do not promote this concept. They're promoting a neoliberal perception. They are addressing a society that is defeated, which is desperate, but they want it defeated. They want it to be developed, because the government is a government of redistribution of benefits and wants a society of voluntary expectations rather than a society of modernisation, development, reforms, competitiveness, equal European Greece, which demands its position within the international market. That's the big problem. The big problem arises, that is, from the fact that the current government, not because of the presence of the Independent Greeks, the government as a whole with the body of SYRIZA, of course, with all the fellow sinners, is the very political problem of the economy itself. It is the very emblem of this great and unequivocal contradiction, because the problems are genetic. The problems are recorded in the way in which the present government became a parliamentary majority and reached the position of the government. This cannot be historically indifferent and historically impunity. This engulfs the country, leads to contradictions that cannot be overcome. The country is driven through a new generation of illusions in the strategic gap after August 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too. Mr Megaloustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u159	How many have left?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u160	I announced it, Mr Constantinople, beforehand. There are two other parliamentary representatives. Here comes the Minister, and then we move on with the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, unfortunately in every bill you bring, you are going to put another series of bricks on the wall that the citizens have raised against all politicians. You are strengthening the dismantling of the political system by the citizens. You have done this because you do not do the same as others, or that is the image that the citizens have. The image the citizens have of the previous people who brought us into this crisis is that they were stealing hates that they were involved in lovitours. The impression they have for you is that you're the greatest liars they've ever been through. This is what you will collect from the world if you speak with them. Where we stand and wherever we meet, that's what we hear. You have kept almost nothing of what you were saying in the election, but now, while you are in the government, you may say another thing and the next do exactly the opposite. It is clear from the procedures, first of all, that you are following. So you're bringing us a bill of this size to read it, study it within one day and discuss it the next two. It doesn't make sense. There's no man who'll accept that as normal. You come and tell us there will be electronic auctions. It was you who said other things before you came to the government. We do not have, beyond the law on the protection of first residence until 2018, any other commitment. There have been hundreds of eighty thousand applications, only fifty thousand have been examined and 40% has been rejected. How do you see that? Normal? It matches your morality, with this moral advantage you had as a flag in the election, but even until a moment ago some of you still call it? You want to auction for public debts. What have you done with public debts to private individuals? We've asked you a question. You didn't answer her. We reconfirmed it to you. Do you want this money coming from taxes, from the overtaxation of Greek citizens, to keep it to say that you have surpluses and that there is a liquidity in your funds? Is that how growth comes? Are these the reforms that you boast of? Now you're even coming to hit the strike. And who are you doing this for? Because, if we look carefully, especially, you do it for a small number of large businesses. And you want to tell us that you don't serve interests? Do you have the right of workers in these difficult times to strike? Workers who pay 350 euros for four hours and six hours and who, when they get a job, sign that they get the gifts and return them back? Now you come to say that the strike is not a good thing, and so there should be a higher percentage that it agrees. You will do us exactly as Romania and Bulgaria are, who want an absolute majority. You made us living, you reached us there, and now you want to take us to that area too. Let's get some ideas and images from other, more developed states, because we want to get out of the crisis, not immerse ourselves deeper. You said you wouldn't privatize, you won't spare the national wealth and you're coming now and you're setting up the Energy Exchange. And you're doing well. If a state manages this properly, it will have benefits for the state and for citizens and for the whole country. However, there are some objections we have on this article, to the establishment of this company, as many of them have not been cleared up. I'll mention some: The first problem that may arise, if the Minister does not have the necessary explanations, we shall identify it in Article 117B and in particular in paragraph 1, where it provides in particular, both during the setting up and throughout the life of the Hellenic Energy Exchange A.E. that the total participation in it of companies in which the State holds all or a majority of voting rights must not be reduced to more than 35% and that it may amount to more than 49% of its share capital and voting rights. However, this article, which is supposed to ensure that the rate of government cannot fall below 35%, is set out in Article 80, namely paragraph 7, which allows 67% of the share capital to be transferred to, for example, any stock company or bank. In words: ‘For each primary acquisition or transfer of shares in the Energy Exchange, as a result of which the share participation rate reaches or exceeds 20%, 1/3, 50% or 2/3’, i.e. 67%, is required prior approval of the RAE...’. We absolutely must remove this contradiction from these two articles. In fact, we are afraid - because we have seen a great deal happen in the poor Greek state with those who ruled it - that 35% will be reduced, because a potential share increase in capital will make a proud contribution to participating in the public sector, so PPC will also lose that percentage. Our proposal, a proposal from the Central Association, is that there should be a clear and irrevocable clause according to which the public cannot have less than 49%. It is very important for a country to control its energy. We now go to the second point where we want some explanations from the Minister. It is Article 82, and in particular paragraph 5, which says that access to information and transparency of transactions is required to operate in order to operate a stock exchange. It's perfectly normal, because that's how free competition works. However, what do you say in this article? These items, price, volume, time of trade, shall be made public under reasonable commercial conditions and as close as possible to the time of training of each transaction. The RAE may, in fact, allow the Energy Exchange to transfer the publication of this information over time. How will I know I'll sell the power tomorrow if I don't know what the price yesterday was? We want this paragraph to be withdrawn and replaced by an article that ensures direct access to information and transparency of transactions. What is a country without energy? A country wants its energy, its self-sufficiency in products, it must have its weapon systems. If we lose one of these, then we lose the proper functioning of a country, the balance goes. We become victims of every chimpanzee and fall into pits from which we don't know when to get out. The next problem is who the clearers of transactions will be - the banks again - like the ones who will take the energy into their hands. You've been banking a lot of big business. Among them they'll do the checks, they'll do the cleansing. Do you see it moral? Of course it isn't. We have seen what problems have been created in other countries that have implemented it. Another problem we are detecting is bypass, that is, bilateral transactions outside the energy financial market can be traded. For example, a large chain of supermarkets will be able to get direct current from its country. He'll work in Greece, and the currency will go out. That's not what we're asking. We don't need this to get out of the crisis. The biggest problem for me, because we have said that we want to have a people's and social policy, is what will happen to small producers. Is there any provision to secure them? We know how big business works. We know very well what will happen on the market and how they will be removed and forced to sell their properties, their photovoltaic parks, where you - and when I say 'you', I mean the previous political system - give them simple loans to unleash the crops and put photovoltaics today to come a big business and get their hard work, their work and the hard work they have put forward to achieve all of this. And all this, when we, the last of Europe, pay the North Europeans to buy our pollutants. That's what the Energy Exchange does. Instead of correcting basic problems, we continue with pathogens and we do nothing that will help our economy, if we don't take these things into account. You come and you are strengthening a sector that has suffered too much damage according to the recital, the casino industry. If we want to strengthen tourism, and that is necessary. You come and give tax relief. What, though, do you do with other sectors of the economy that have suffered such big blows from the crisis? What you do causes the common feeling. We're selling out everything. You come and set up the register. You're right. Some issues had to be resolved in this country at some point. However, you come to do digitisation and strengthen the public. I think all citizens want a public lighter, smaller, so that everything can be done faster. He had three hundred forty-six employees, and now you want to have a thousand twenty-seven. And what happens after digitisation? You know very well that by digitizing everything is done very quickly. What about them? In every bill you bring provisions, laws, articles, which suit people, who are very afraid that all they serve is to strengthen the party army. You have in all the provisions for loose ends settled by a joint ministerial decision. Why don't we legislate right? I do not think any of you are proud of the way you bring these articles and the provisions. You have not even taken into account the register and the amendment we have tabled to you. What about the land register lawyers? We would also like you to take the other parties' proposals seriously into account in this Parliament. That's a democracy. To close, Macedonia is Greek. That's it. We cannot negotiate with the neighbours for our name and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the neighbouring country will also come and say: "If we change the name, you change the name of Macedonia as well." Do you feel proud of that? How are you going to return the Macedonian MPs, the north-easters back to your villages? Macedonia is one, it's Greek and it's over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u162	Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u163	It is obvious that the government, in line with the constant and tested history of social democracy, of course adapted to the modern conditions, and indeed in a smart and sophisticated way, is trying consciously, seemingly in a dual language - but one is the language - to encapsulate the people, firstly, to the logic of the lesser evil stirring up and lifting up the bogeyman of the New Democracy that they are worse - so prefer me to do better than New Democracy, but I am not the worst evil - and also using political payments and at the same time attacking the JRC to show that there is no other way than the management of capitalist barbarism. That's what you tell the world, that's why you hit the Communist Party of Greece, and that's why it's a two-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three birds. The first is that you are testing the system towards the New Democracy that you can better pass on the requirements of capital and anti-grass policy and with fewer social reactions. And on the other hand, re-examine the fact that you are also hitting the KIC that resists this policy, which calls on the uproar workers, which reveals the classic substance of SYRIZA - ANEL government's policy. So, in the plan with all the positions that have been made, you attempt to hide from the people his class substance, his strategy, to hide from the people that it is a single strategy and that everything has a follow-up, it is nothing random, nor that it is individual reforms, as you say, and you tell him it is a result of compromises with more well and less evil, so cynical. Why am I saying it? Because we'll see the good and the bad things along the way. And much worse right now, knowing about the international circumstances - unless you do not read what is happening in general and what is predicted - knowing the European Union's policy and the discussions that are taking place, which are all but changing Europe, are probably changing it, but to the worst of all, what do you say? So we come out of the memorials, so we go into normality. What regularity? Six hundred laws of memorials and a hundred percent of yours. We can't count them anymore. We've lost the account. Will they be abolished? Or aren't these memorial laws the ones you're bringing with the evaluation? The laws are commemorative. Secondly, the European Union, the Memorandum of Memorandums, budgetary control, six months, more stringent framework as a whole. These will stop exist when - as you say - you will come out of the memorials, maintaining all the Memorandum Laws? No, of course not. The same barbaric, anti-grassroots policy will continue after the end - as you say - of the memoranda. So attack the JRC. Because all the strategy followed by SYRIZA is revealed. Secondly, on a socio-economic level, false separation, middle layers of poor incomes. We share poverty without even harming the interests of capital. Really, from the big business, from the business groups, shipowners, industrialists, traders, bankers, what are you asking them to give more to deal with poverty? Nothing! On the contrary, you give them more. And you put the separation of privileged ones - unqualified in the modern version. In the unavoidable big chapter, the overthrow of the basic class contrast that you say, no matter how much you try to stain it, there is and becomes tough. And it's the contrast between capital and work. Of course, you're trying to say and you're not saying it, say it openly 'yes, we're choosing this way. In these circumstances, we serve this development, capitalist development, the interests of the system and there we try to do something better." For other parties that support this system, and that is why they do not want the world to become impoverished and mobilised. So you hide this basic contrast. Retreat to all capital requirements. All of them! And the compromises that are made - which are too temporary and are going to come back more vigorously, and that will seem - to be capitalist growth, to ensure profits, and this government is also trying to create such an institutional framework, so that it can best ensure the profitability of capital if it seems that there can be at least a temporary recovery of the economy. At the same time, are you projecting the country's geostrategic upgrading at an international level that serves who? The Greek people? Do NATO participation, market sharing, transport routes, serve the Greek people? What will the worker gain? Nothing. On the contrary, she can also be paid in blood. Now, as far as the plan is concerned, as I said before, it is not a sum of good and bad. Indeed, Mr Tsakalotos says - they have good news - that this time the good news is more. We'll see if more is good. The total escalates the attack on the working class and the popular strata. And on the other hand, because it has two sides, it gives even more benefits to capital. And the question is, and here we have to answer: Who do the articles of the bill serve, with few administrative exceptions? We start at the top and it's for us top. It's the whole strike thing. It has been a long time since the eruption - which now has a SYRIZA seal - of the right to strike. In fact, what's amazing? Not to say tragic, because it doesn't matter. That you are now taking the step in the arguments of BSE and all those who oppose the working class. Isn't that what they've been saying for so long?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u164	No, they don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u165	Come on, Spyros, they don't say that. Call your trade unions from the factories if you have anyone. That's not what they've been saying for so long, is it not what BSE says? "There are many strikes, there are no employee participation." What's wrong with them? Their pains got caught, why don't so many participate in making the strike decision? No, of course not. You adopt the employer's arguments openly in the effort to defend the defenceless in that you strike the heart of the right to strike which is the workplace, which is the factories, which are the businesses. That's where you hit it. And now I'm saying he's got a SYRIZA seal. But let's get down. Let us see what the situation is about the strike right as a whole, how it has been shaped over time. Because we, Mr v.1264, did not vote for him in these times. Why didn't we vote for it? Here's the results. 95% of strikes are considered illegal and abusive and some, in fact, even before they are announced. That is a framework, then. The second concerns workers' associations. 15% of workers - make it by employers in no time, with the condition that they exist - may sign operational contracts that reduce wages, etc. Will you abolish it after you're tired of joining? Why? What's that? What's with 15%? Do you like it? You agree. Go out, Mrs. Ahchioglu, and say whether or not you agree with this law. And if you don't agree, will you remove him? No, of course not. Additional obstacles. Third is the lock out partly. The lockout has partly been voted on. He may not pay the workers, even when they don't work during the strike. It's a step. That's how it goes, step-by-step. And finally, this article comes, what the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK dreamed of to a certain extent, both the industrialists and all the capital. You come and you bring it and you're even trying to tell us it's no big deal. Is it more than doubled or not the percentage needed to make a decision on the strike? And let them go. For you are saying: 'We are changing nothing to the percentage that the decision is taken'. Let's say practically. In order to be able to make a decision, there must be a quorum at the general meeting. The quorum, which was a third and a fifth, - to know the world is doing - is now turning to 50%, that is, more than twice as much. And what do you think? One has said 'we want workers to be involved'. Okay, are you serious? You are ignorant of what happens inside the factories from the shifts that are an objective problem, from the huge problems each has to collect his children when he comes back from work, leaving here and goes to the Oinophitas and works twelve hours and is paid seven, from employers' terrorism, from the line of unemployment outside. And you're telling us that you're improving the conditions for making the decision? What is this thing? If there is no quorum, no decision shall be taken. It's over! And when it comes to topical issues and immediately, they cannot, they cannot - objectively - make no progress, beyond anything else, on the part of the workers. And we now have here and you adopt the arguments of those who hate the labour movement. And Mr Brutsis comes out, uncircumcisedly, shamelessly, and speaks of 'parasites' and 'working fathers'. Search for them in his area, in the IAEA, in the area of others, who have been professionals for so many years and who play the role of supporting anti-grassroots, anti-government policy. It's a lot of parasites. The biggest are the capitalists. Those who don't work and suck the labor and labor. These are the biggest parasites. Parasites exist everywhere and in many sectors, which have occasionally been enriched, in various mechanisms of the urban state. These are the parasites. And SYRIZA comes on the other hand and says there's little employee involvement. You'll stay in history. But can I tell you something? Laugh. You're so laughing. If you think the workers will be subjected, you're making a big mistake. Close them in jail. And I don't just mean the communists. Others will follow, because the reality is so barbaric that it will give birth to great struggles, and in practice they will abolish that law that you brought. And you see now - "He gave courage to the villager, to go up to bed", they say to my village - the representative of the Centroon Association came out and says: "Why 50% plus one? 90%. Why that? More bore you! Strikes bad!'. The mighty one is the worker and the powerless one is the capitalist. So let's get on the road. Who do electronic auctions serve? I will say this briefly because it has been analysed by our speakers. Step by step or step by step. The point is, you guys are getting along. And slowly, at the end of 2018 and with the new year, we will not only enter'red', but also 'green' and 'blue' loans. This is the experience at least if people do not react. Secondly, indebted enterprises. The banks are upgraded. And you move like a sex of figuratives that would precede the workers six months' wages. Why? I don't understand. Why should they take six months? Get everything they owe them. It will be at least a measure, reformist though - it does not radically change things - but why not? And let's get the banks lately. Unless the bankers and the partners are hungry there. Who is the service of the ban on the conversion of fixed-term contracts into indefinite contracts? The workers or the urban state itself? The heavy and unhealthy enter the Profruit. Now we are going to talk about this - it says - from a zero base to the public, so we can then go to the private. These are capital requirements. In the European Union, the debate on privileges - it says - has begun since 2000. For what heavy and unhealthy? So are we going to talk about modern production conditions, computers, which half the women have paralyzed their hands? Are we going to talk about those who have problems with modern technology, or are we going to cut off the previous ones and leave some to have them, for example? For the disability, start with. Now - it says - we are dismantling the supply criterion and going to a non-responsible criterion. [[At this point the time bell is ringing, the honourable Member speaks.]] Mr President, all the parliamentary representatives have spoken for 15 minutes. I have my dentistry, too. Why are you doing this? To raise benefits? Say it. Are you doing this for you or for you to cut? The line is to cut from everywhere. What we can cut off from the workers from the urban state wants to give backing to the big capital. For the extrajudicial compromise, and for mediation, the lawyers have proved this very well, even though we do not agree on everything. Ultimately, he'll be the car accident worker across from the insurance company. Who's gonna win? That's not what you're saying, because he'll pay more in the course and eventually he might not end up anywhere and go back to court. Why 'compulsory'? Why are you extending the extrajudicial compromise to other issues? Who are they serving? Who asked? BSE and insurance companies. Which workers asked for it in the courts, the legal world? Nobody. So here's the sign you have. And attack the JRC. And Mr. Mandais is talking about the logic of the Middle War. However, many of them were conquered in the Middle War. And they were conquered after World War II. And you come now and smear the sickle and cut according to the orders of the chapter. I'll tell the other side in a contour. Now the energy - which you were supposed to be claiming to be a social asset - is getting into stock market gambling. They buy as much as they want cheap, and they sell expensive. They're gonna scratch the world in fact. That's what's gonna happen. Secondly, it is the tax arrangements for capital. We have a reduction in fines, a reduction in taxation in the reserve when it is invested, and even with the stunning 5% of 29%. Resuspend it after years. Also, you have a tax exemption for companies that have a patent. What for? What businesses do they have? The little grocery store you said it was 90%? Who's serving at the pharmacies hours? Is he serving the pharmacist, the self-employed, or is he serving the big companies that, together with liberation, come to scan everything, put employees in the pharmacy? Why are changes in the quarry and mining code? In order to facilitate business groups, to remove obstacles to end up - because this has happened in all previous years - the country's mineral wealth. In conclusion, there are no good and bad. There's a single line, Mr. Mada. And the single line was given to you by Mr. Dieselblum, the European Union, the BSE, the crows, the funds, the banking groups. They're the ones playing you. Have you seen any of the workers, from the self-employed, and I mean in total the world of work you say, the working class, the popular strata - agree? They're all opposite. They're the only ones who play you. You will have the people's answer. And don't look at them like that now. You know, what time brings, it's not time. There is a lot of injustice, a lot of anti-population policy, and it will erupt. We're calling people into class caves. In Mr Balta's question - I do not know if he is here - where the JRC is taking it with the mobilisations, I say that the JRC is doing what it does is calling on the people to fight, otherwise they are sending him to hell! So if you think that with some indirect threats to some thermo-heads - I don't know if it is - we're going to retreat, you're wrong. The JRC's been closing a hundred years. It's been through fire and iron. He may have weaknesses, he may have made mistakes - and strategically - at some point, but he never worshiped capitalist barbarism. We will continue on this road and you will be across the street because that is where your policy puts you. We will table a proposal for a roll-call vote on both the principle and the article on the strike and the auctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the 8th Lamia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a lyric colleague of the parliamentary majority speaking yesterday began his speech by addressing the New Democracy the question of the 1900s poem "What is our homeland?". In fact, he answered the question himself. It will allow me, therefore, to borrow his introduction and I, for what our country is, to start talking about what is not our homeland. Why, ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation here in the thousands of five hundred pages, which you require to discuss once we read it, understand it and judge it in two days, is not our country. I would also ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to see - and I challenge you - on page 737 of this legislation, on which the Minister of Finance has already made legislative improvements - said them, of course, at the edge of his speech, saying the truth, legislative and non-legislative - Article 399, which extends the exemption not only from the board but also from the board of directors' boards. Why do you agree? Who asked for it? What is it that you're covering here? Why does this have to be done? Why should these contracts be defined by law, by definition beneficial to the Greek State, and there should be neither criminal nor civil liability, not only for the board of directors, but also for those advising the board and thus on the presumption that they should be responsible? What new truce is being edited through provisions of monstrous legislation, which no one from the majority and partly from Minority never reads? Ladies and gentlemen, all these legislations are being debated in accordance with the urgency or urgency procedure, these legislations in the misguided drawing of provisions. Here we have provisions for hairdressers - and don't say I have repellents - both ovens on the one hand and the Land register on the other. We have provisions for business reserves on the one hand and on the other hand we have provisions on strike issues. In fact, I have to tell you that I had the unprecedented experience of me - I was a student in England in the 1980s - of living the great battles with the strikes of the miners of Articleur Scargill against the Thatcher Government. It was the Thacher government that legislated 50%. Mr. Stathakis, you're a little older than me and you were just in England. Well, then I think you stayed with the JRC. That's what I've been told. However, I never thought I would see a professor say that he is an Orthodox Marxist and come here to suggest legislation like Thatcher legislation, which, in any case, we have always supported it directly, to be honest. But it is a mental satisfaction that Mr. Chakalotos comes and tell the JRC what good this article is. We had disagreed with PASOK on this article. Clear words! We're not hiding about what we are and what we think, and that's why we've never been through. And we very much thank the SYRIZA who is now making us the great pleasure not only of bringing it, but of supporting it. Well done, superiors!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u168	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u169	Now let's go to: Ladies and gentlemen, let me understand, in order to understand what this legislation imposes on this legislation to limit the support of the three-tier and multi-tier family, but to grant tax exemptions on casinos? What is this arrest of the Greek economy and of the Greek society, which shows that such treatment, support for casinos on the one hand, deprivation of the multitude family on the other hand, is what will lead us to development paths? To understand that, because we in the free economy have never supported these things. Did we, too? Is SYRIZA the new liberal party, which will lead Greece to a new economic bloom through the casting of the entire Greek economy? Otherwise, that's not understandable. Our previous governments - our last government - have had a conception with two pillars: on the one hand, the protection of the minimum guaranteed income of people who need it, on the other hand, and on the other hand, they are aware of the great problem of fertility, protection at the start of the child, but, in particular, of the third and multitude family. In whose name is this overturned? I would like to repeat what Mrs Bakoyannis said to the government: to put an order now - we will vote for it too - with which the third-party and multi-text family will be further strengthened. After all, our diligent rapporteur, Mr Dimas, has given you concrete examples here. It is in Practicals: The rich family with 23,000 euros and with three or four children was getting 1,980 euros and now it will get 1,344 euros! Is that a social policy? Four kids with 26,000 euros? Other dipping people took 2,640 euros and will now take about 2,016 euros! Why are these things? I'll be back in the rest. I will not go into this, which was also said by Mr Dimas in the 2013 tragedy, where the current Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, MP, then - broadly signed - said: 'Emphasis and condemnation of the poverty of the threeteen and tenacious families'. We'll remember that. We're on now. EKSIS: When we told you about the excess and about this legal squirrel that you had - beyond being an absolute volunteer of the Greeks, 100 years of all public property under foreign control - that it would not work, did it take eighteen months to understand it and come now to abolish the EKS? Not that it'll work now. I tell you that it will not work now either, because whatever you go through, whatever thousands of pages and bring them here to vote, you ignore the reality criterion. None of this will work in the end. I'm going to the institution of compulsory mediation. First of all, we all agree that mediation is useful. Yes, sir. In the way it is introduced here, who has recommended it to the government? Let's know. Who is the institution, which supports these provisions? Because as far as I know, mediation is supposed to help to award justice, create better conditions for its award, and actually facilitate judges and prosecutors. How, then, does it explain that those who were supposed to benefit from this legislation are the first to come and disagree vertically and directly that this legislation cannot function? The Association of Judges and Prosecutors was very clear. Lawyers. Why are they all seated and against this great intersection that this government finds, supposedly, in order to solve the problems of bringing justice to the country? Why is there no serious person here putting solidarity with this regulation, but everyone is saying that he is not going to go ahead? Besides, it's a barbaric arrangement, because the cost, which it costs is huge. Only six hundred euros for mediation, before we even enter the normal procedure, which is even compulsory. You can't choose or choose. It is a huge sum for the Greek family today and for him who wants to move forward and seek the protection of justice. Because the protection of justice is not primarily sought by shipowners and the rich. The weaker needs the protection of justice. So on the back of this weak government puts another EUR 600 to never find any sense. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me, by the way, this new instrument, which you enter here, the Economic Crime Investigation Directorate, which is added to all other specific instruments, what is the benefit? I foresee that this is not going to work. The Minister of Finance has made us an explanation previously unbelievable. We cannot - it says - give the existing services, because there are conflicts, so we are building another service to which they are going directly. He told us something, namely, where you hear it and say, 'I hear these things?' ‘Do I dream about them?’. ‘I'm in another world?’. 'Do we not understand what we are hearing?'. "Do we not be recommended by people who see reality?" ‘What are these?’. How many audit bodies should the Greek public have? It's about six to seven now we're talking about. The eighth of what will he add? Even - barely the exceptional staff that exists in many of these institutions, such as the ILO, the CEFOP, etc., will be deprived of opportunities to go to do his job. This is going to happen. That's why they're all vertically against this arrangement. In any case, that's the government's judgement. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time, in view of the supposed record of the clean exit of August 2018, to see in the eyes what this government is. Besides, I hope that we will not have many times the dubious pleasure of discussing with her in 2018. I believe that 2018 will be a crucial time to see changes. Yesterday - we have also referred to the Chamber beforehand - two interviews, which make the scene quite clear to us. One was the retired President of Eurogroup, Mr Dieselblum, the supposed fanatical enemy of the present government majority. Mr. Dieselblum was supposed to be the head of the spear, the high priest of evil, the great enemy of this government, the one with whom the government of the people was toughly negotiating here on our right. He was kicking him. He was hitting him. And after so much battle, from so much struggle, from so much rivalry, what did it feel like to do? To thank the government of the people for their brilliant cooperation and, of course, to blame the previous governments for not being as persuasive and cooperative as Mr Tsipras's government. On the other hand, it is Mr Vizer, the head of the Euro Working Group, who is not an institution in the European Union. But how does Eurogroup apply? Through ratification of its decisions by the Council of Ministers. There are no conditions, the Eurogroup as an instrument of the European Union. So, is Mr. Vizer coming and what does he say? ‘Net exit in August 2018? They laughed at you. After you have paid 75% of the debt and yet after about 2060.’ That's what they tell you, who praise you on how you work with them. And you come here to tell us about the net exit and all the other things you want to sell to the Greek society. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to me, extremely important, beyond the limits of the legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. If there is something, which determines the course of a country - I have told you repeatedly here - it is adequacy and respect for its institutions. One of these institutions is the institution of justice, the faith in the protection of human rights. I have to say to you that I have been absolutely amazed by the efforts made by the Government through the Minister, Mr Musala, and by the Minister who has been chosen for this indulgence - to overturn the decisions of Greek justice on the protection of Turkish officers, who have asked for protection status to be recognised and recognised by Greek justice. Finally, it is certain that soon you will leave power. However, what you can do now is allow the country to maintain its institutional dignity and not to be humiliated against the Turks, operating not as an independent European country that respects the European acquis, as it stands, and human rights, but as a last subordinate to the sultan, to whom it also gives an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, too. We proceed with the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Fotios. Please, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I dedicate this speech to Thodoris Michopoulos, a left agonist, a journalist, who has always been next to us. In particular, these difficult years encouraged us and encouraged us. He was with us and the night the third evaluation was closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are voting on today shows the most positive correlation of powers between our country and its lenders in the third assessment because of what we have achieved. That is why the majority of the measures we are voting on are positive for the country. In eight months' time we have come out of the memoranda, which means that we will not have to borrow in exchange for the imposition of harmful measures for the country, as the lenders have often admitted. So we move on to the new era with a structured plan and let the New Democracy be destroyed and lying, as it does all these days, especially in the area of social protection. In the area of social protection, we have achieved this assessment to provide 315 million only for the child, when the lenders did not want 1 euro to be provided. In fact, they asked for reductions in family allowances. It is money that comes from the cost savings we have made from every ministry and for the first time they do not go to the "black hole" of the debt. Forty - sixty million, then, for family allowances, forty million for school meals and fifteen million for infants. Because the child is our care, regardless of whether he is in a single, dotted, threesome, multiple family. In whatever family, the child has the same needs, the same dreams and expectations. For this reason in 2018, we will establish a large benefit and service plan. For the kid! And we'll put it into effect immediately. Now we're going to family benefits. We put 260 million extra on the existing 650 that we found. I mean, for the first time we had a 40% increase. We have designed a new system that restores a great inequality between families and one and two children to threeteen and multiple families. This was because the former regime used the threeteen and manyteen families as a fig sheet to hide the lack of politics it had in the demographic problem. In 1993, the intergroup committee of the Parliament came out of the alarm when it said there was a demographic problem. He proposed ten meters. No one's done. The births in 1993 were a hundred and two thousand. Twenty years later, in 2013, births are ninety-four thousand. In 2015, which we took over, the births were ninety thousand and eighty and - strange thing - in 2016 - they are the latest elements of ELSTAT - they increased to ninety-two thousand ninety. Of course, the fertility index is at least 1.3 instead of 2 that it had to be. So if we encourage one million families with one and two children to have another child, you understand that the indicator will improve. What does 'encourage' mean? It means security and not job insecurity. That is why we fought and unemployment fell from 27% to 21%. That is why we have created for the first time three hundred and twenty thousand new jobs. It means fighting poverty. That is why the CRL has strengthened and strengthened some seven hundred thousands of our fellow citizens with 760 million euros. It means hurting child poverty. That's why there's every day around the country a hundred and thirty thousand school meals warmly that you do. It also means free kindergartens. That's why we're setting up four hundred young people for ten thousand more children in 2018. We received a regime in which only seventy thousand children had free access. Today, a hundred thousand children have free access and not only from working mothers - because that is what you have done - but also from unemployed mothers because there is a child in both the unemployed and the poor families. It means no child in institutions and no open hug empty for all these parents who have waited for so many years to adopt a child or become foster parents. That is why we are voting for the law of acceptance and adoption in the next few days. It means rent subsidy and loan for stable housing. It means EUR 600 million for six hundred thousand families in this measure. It means a hundred family support centres that we establish in 2018. It means a set of benefits, incentives policy, tax exemptions - Minister of Finance - a subsidy for public transport and so on. Already in this bill, we bring the abolition of the end of the paperwork for the three-tiers and multiples from the families. This means relief for all scales from EUR 54 to EUR 108. You didn't say a word about it. It means increasing for the thirty - thousand families with a parent, one - parent, all, regardless of whether they have one, two, three or four children. They'll all see increases. You didn't say a word about it, because you didn't care about the only parental family. I will give you an example, because you like examples. A parent with four children and an income of 20,000 euros up to 22,500 euros a year, while taking 220 euros a month, will get 252 euros a month. This means that we in total do not make an allowance policy, but we have a plan and a programme for the child. I said before that the system was uneven. Where does the inequity consist? Ladies and gentlemen, inequality consists of and is evidenced by the following example: a two-tier family with the old system was receiving EUR 960 and has just taken a child, that is, a three-tier family, taking EUR 2,940. With the new system brought by the tenant family, the child will receive EUR 1,680 and exactly twice the money, that is, 3,360 euros will be paid by the third family. Is that unfair? So, from now on, in all income categories, the relationship between the two children and the three children will be one to two, i.e. the third family will get twice as much money as the tenant family gets. I believe that this is a regulation that is stable and fair. With the regulation we bring about thirty-eight thousand families in a total of eight hundred thousand, 92%, they will see great increases. They will see these increases, despite false and destructive. We're talking about 92% of families! They'll see them quickly, because we're building a new system in the OGA that will provide family allowances almost every month, every two months, not like the old system. Over, fifty thousand threescore and multiple families will see great increases. A hump about that! You have misled all public opinion. You say we cut the benefits. Fifty thousand of the hundred thousand in total, polytexts and threetext families will see very large increases as follows. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will take some time because everyone is talking about this. Three-family: He took 2,940. It'll get an extra 420 euros. Four-family family: He took 3,920. It'll get an extra 1,120 euros. Five-nine family: Take 4,900. It'll get an extra 1.820 euros. I'm not going to go on. You understand that. In fact, of the remaining fifty thousand families of three and more, belonging to the two higher income categories, more than half of them will see minimal reductions. In these cases, you have created falsehoods that we are punishing third parties and multiples. We know very well - and listen carefully - that when a system is redesigned with many parameters, such as this, problems are created, such as those created in a section of the three-tier and multi-text families, and that is true. So the new system needs a period of adjustment, much more so that we recognise that in crisis conditions no family can afford a reduction in its incomes which are specifically tax-free, that is, family allowances are all tax-free. We therefore categorically state here that we will address these reductions in 2018. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I'll finish with the disability benefits arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u172	Finish in a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u173	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is a pilot project of great importance to the benefit of the disabled. The electronic disability file shall be created. The OGA takes over the entire procedure by electronic means. They are linked by the HICP and the OGA to the CSDP by an entire electronic system. The red tape is being abolished. No documents and supporting documents shall be required. The suffering of the disabled is abolished by the multiple movements of the former system. There is no change in the laws granting preferential disability benefits. On the contrary, we will be able to pay a fixed date from OGA the new benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fotou. I would ask Mr Dimas to speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u175	Why three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u176	There's three of them. Three minutes will be the seconds of the speakers, rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u177	Six minutes hadn't been planned?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u178	No, it's not six minutes. I'm so sorry. It won't be six minutes. It'll be three minutes with a tolerance. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u179	The procedure is, however, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u180	Not from the emergency procedure. It was five minutes for the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u181	Aren't we going in a row?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u182	No, we're not going in a row. They asked for the floor by Mr Dimas and Mr Constantinople, the Prime Minister, the Ministers, etc. We have a whole process ahead of us. It is over by the speakers. The vote will take place at seven o'clock. I'm telling you right now. They've given us the list of parties' leaders. Mr. Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. "Thirds and multitasks are a small population group". With this phrase of the Deputy Minister of Labour a few days ago, the attitude of the Government SYRIZA - Independent Greeks towards the third and tenacious families is confused. For this reason today, Members of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks will vote to reduce their allowances. Three-way family with income of 23,000 euros with the law of the Samara government received an allowance of 1,980 euros a year. By law SYRIZA - Independent Greeks will receive EUR 1.344. So she loses one third of her allowance. Another example: Multitude family with four children and an annual income of 26,000 euros by the law of the previous government received 2,640 euros a year. By law SYRIZA - Independent Greeks will receive 2,016 euros. So she loses one quarter of her allowance. The outrageous thing is that while over the last three years you have loaded on the back of families EUR 14.5 billion unnecessarily austerity measures, you do not consciously keep EUR 50 million to stay the same for third-party and multi-text families. Indeed, the Minister has advertised a little earlier on how the budget is increased by 40%. While you are increasing, Minister, the sum, you are reducing it for the three-tiers and the multiples. Say it straight. You consider them to be a small population group, so you don't care. In any case, we can all agree. Third-twelves and multiple families in the next election have no one, but no reason to vote SYRIZA or Independent Greeks. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Give it up, ladies and gentlemen. You're right. I'm glad you recognize it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u184	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u185	On this occasion I would like to remind everyone of the policy of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks in the last three years for the family. In this year’s school year forty - seven hundred fifty - one children were left out of nursery stations, although they met the criteria. Greece has not been able to absorb one euro from the school fruit and vegetable programmes for the school years 2014-2015. Indeed, I tabled the question that I personally asked in 2015 and the really disappointing answer from the Ministry of Education. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Otherwise, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks were the ones who shouted that children faint in schools, because they have no food to eat. You degenerate the entire day's schools. You have abandoned support institutions, such as aiding teaching or parallel support, and are allegedly being cut off to support the family. You have, however, moved on to the auctions even to the first place, while today you are voting on auctions, even for debts of EUR 500 to tax. I read from the Polynomial Plan: "From 21-2-2018, the auctions are conducted exclusively by electronic means, regardless of the time of the cheque and the imposition of the confiscation." In other words, from the famous slogan "no house in the hands of a banker" we went to the new slogan of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks: "The home of the owner by e-mail to the banker". [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You're upset, and I understand it. The Greek society is unfortunately upset by what you are voting on. In conclusion, the plan you are bringing to the House today is a mixture of monumental commitments, left-wing ideas and painful disguises for many social groups and guilds that until recently closed their eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos has the floor and then Mr Marios Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has submitted a legislative improvement just before the Friday sitting, in Article 380, which excludes all subsidiaries other than CFS. The Government first excludes the members of the HFSF from the scandal for the purchase of public property. And now it also excludes them from the obligation to state 'from you'. After the criminal and civil liability of the members of the CFSF, which you have found and have devoured within and outside the House - you come and act - now what is he doing? Excludes ten people from filing a statement of property that the country's last police officer deposited! The government has been calling for judges who do not want to publish the word 'whereabouts' so long? But what hypocrisy is this, colleagues of SYRIZA, who will vote today? And you know what the worst is? You've been fooled. We weren't fooled. We found it. Legislative improvement was brought to you to make fun of you. Otherwise they would bring in an amendment. They'd put it in the setup. But it's okay. You licked where you spit. Let's go to second. Today, a government newspaper, the "NATIONAL" - no matter what, you laugh - is talking about protecting the first residence from tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u188	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Stathakis said so too. And where does he refer, ladies and gentlemen? In a ministerial decision of 2010 by George Papaconstantinou. This is what the 'NATIONAL' newspaper says today. The government, Mrs Papanatsiou, claims. You were claiming another yesterday. He says it's the encouragement, people who have first residence not to go out to auctions. But we didn't have electronic auctions, Mrs. Papanachius. And you know what you told us yesterday from the Step of the House? We asked you 'by what provision?' And you told us: on the basis of Article 975 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Ms. Papanaceu, which one do you agree with now? Do you agree with Mr. Stathakis? Do you agree with the law of Katseli? Do you agree with "NATIONAL"? Do you agree with what you said? With what? The protection of the first residence with the law that you did not vote on - which you do not know well, but you use communication - you know what it is? He's got a limit, Mr. Papanatsiu. One who has, for example, 140,000 euros first home will not be auctioned online by the public, but the one who has 145,000 euros will be auctioned by the public. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u190	No, I won't allow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u191	It can't be, Mr. President. I'll go to three issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u192	It's all done, Mr. Constantinople. You don't understand. It's all done. You'll be done in a minute. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u193	Consultation. At the time, colleagues of SYRIZA, who are reducing taxes to five casinos from EUR 720,000 to EUR 90,000, you are also reducing the third-party allowance. Let me better take what Mrs Fotio said: 50 000 beneficiaries were excluded. As for bankruptcy law? You say 'the workers will first', but the other paragraph comes and what does it say? 'From now on'. So who? No one. And I'm finishing up with the last thing about mediation. Look, Minister: For mediation neither the lawyers nor the Ionian Islands region, which is SYRIZA, nor the mayor of Corfu, do not believe you - and I am tabling a document in the Minutes - which says that compulsory mediation creates problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u194	Please, you're done, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u195	We, Mr President, who have voted for voluntary mediation, support this effort, but with the compulsion of this effort you will blow it off in the air, build a customer system, and above all hit the people of small ones, the weak ones, as the lawyer has told you, and you do not have the power to denounce him what he is lying to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor. Then the ministers will talk. There is no question of replying to the second part, Mrs Papanatsiou. Ask whether it's with the ministers and if it's a sign of serious inaccuracy, to be said. This is done for the economy of time and the process. Please, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. First of all, I too would like to express my condolences to the Michopoulos family, regardless of which political and ideological view it has been the bewilderment of my condolences. Of course, the unfortunate event for the journalists' family has trimmed. After the losses of Beskeni and Aliferopoulos, Michopoulos was the third, and I hope we don't have another event. Clearly, we had the loss of Jimmy Panussi. I also want to express to his family - I do not know if any condolences have been heard from the Stepping of the House - warmly condolences. I will begin with Minister Pappa, who in his speech said that no party would dare bring the reforms brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Clearly, Minister, no party would dare to reach the poverty and impoverishment that the country is driven by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government because you would have gone to the rails, you would have climbed the tractors, you would have burned the Constitution, had all Greece been full of indignant if anyone dared to bring what your government brings. Postgraduate tricks over. You've thrown it with your Minister on the voodoo now. And you insult more than half Greece. And an announcement did not hear about what the former Minister said after his resignation, which, by the way, was ironic. The "first time left" chooses to cut the allowance from sixty-five thousand families to give them to others, of course they also need them. Clearly, all families need it. Where they have arrived with the tax-payer, they all need, not only those who have one and two children or three, four, five and so on. Instead of looking to lower the client state and find a way to subsidise these families, you choose to cut them off from one to give them to the other. As with the bonus you give each end of the year: you put it on him from one pocket and take it twice as much as three times the other. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the point you have drafted is not the last one. It has only fifty of the prerequisites you have agreed with the institutions. There are so many others in the next multi-project that you will bring into the next space and there are others that follow from the third memorandum that brings wide your signature. Remind me of a personal difference, I would remind you of the further reduction in pensions, about 18% calculated, abolition of spouse's allowances, reduction of subsidiary and main pensions, further reduction of duty-free. You will soon tax the air we breathe! As far as this multi-brand plan is concerned, I have all referred to my own positions in the committees and also to my prototypes: electronic auctions, strikes, real estate registers - good ones, but also a thousand posts that you want to increase your client state, for your ruffles, are many - casinos. You've all had it in gambling. We thought it was over with the "shoes," but now we have other casinos. Help tourism, but find another way to help tourism, not through gambling. The truth is one: in 2018 - I have told you, I will tire you, but I will say it again - all millions of Greek citizens will pay and lose at least one or two wages or one or two pensions from what you have taxed them and you will continue to tax them. Because I don't like to say just about you, don't think if the next ones come - if they're next, the next ones in public are - they'll do better. If they could do better, they would have done two - three years before they ruled. We are not in favour of another party because we now have to talk about you who are ruling. We are judging you that you currently have the rule of the country in your hands. When the next one comes, don't worry, it's gonna be their turn to judge them, because it's not just your fault for the last three years. Forty years, all together, and PASOK and New Democracy, and you, of course, have led us here. I cannot omit - give me 30 seconds more, Mr President, and I shall finish - the issue of Macedonia. Mr Dimitrov, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has now raised our name, on the basis of statements made by him and on the basis of the latest publications released a few hours ago. It says: 'If you want us not to have a name and no relationship with Macedonia', you also change Macedonia'. As you can see, it's endless and it doesn't end as easily as you think some people do. As far as what you are all saying is concerned, I would like you to tell us what the national line is. The national line, ladies and gentlemen, is not in the few days of 2008. The national line is of the people. Ask the people, to get the answer as to whether they want to hear the name "Macedonia" in some state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u198	Thank you. Mr Kontonis has the floor for ten minutes, and I would ask that the time be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, with the closure of the second evaluation, a very intense debate took place in Parliament. You remember the period before this debate what intense criticism the government had taken to delay the closure of the second assessment, which we all knew was not due to the contradictions that the government had with the institutions, but to the disagreements that the institutions had with each other and could not enter into a substantive dialogue with the Greek Government. At that time, the Qualified Opposition called for the fall of the government, calling for elections. And today the third evaluation is closed. In fact, the third assessment is closed without budgetary measures and with many positive provisions in this crisis and under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be at one point to show that the very plan that we have before us is the fifth of the negotiation. In some cases, the government has made regular concessions, but it has succeeded in including very serious issues in the multi-brand plan. He has asked us to extend the validity of the measure which finally puts workers at the first stage of satisfaction, from a company or company that went bankrupt, that is to say, to have retroactive effect. This means that this provision is absolutely positive for the world of work. This provision reinstates workers at the first level of beneficiaries of the property, which is now managed by one trader or another. We must finally say in this Chamber the achievements of this government. It is also positive - and no one says it - that the cost of family allowances is increasing by EUR 260 million. Why don't we start with this and then discuss the distribution? However, the fact that there are these positive provisions and, on the other hand, they are silenced - and they are firmly silenced - do you not understand that this has close legs and that society understands much more than you want to admit in this Chamber? Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of discussion on the issues that concern the Ministry of Justice. I have referred several times to mediation, and I have responded to the objections which have been made. If we want to have a serious dialogue, we have to say that mediation is an institution that everyone welcomes, but, when it comes to its implementation, there are stumbling blocks and reactions. And there are stumbling-ups and reactions because trapped attitudes do not want to leave new ideas and even ideas tried abroad to bring positive results to the administration of justice. The first point, therefore, concerns the argument that it was alleged that mediation in certain private differences was compulsory, that there was an exclusion of the party from justice. Absolutely inaccurate, I'd say, fake. I do not want to use such expressions, but is there a provision which says that it is compulsory for the parties, for the parties to reach a practical compromise? Oh, no. It is necessary, however, to follow this procedure. Some would have been right to say that 'yes, access to justice is not forbidden' because some parties may disagree and immediately appeal to justice, but access is, in the end, forbidden because there are high costs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you see in the bill that there is an indirect way of banning citizens of access to justice because of the remuneration of ombudsmen? If you see, for small differences and special procedures, the Ombudsman's remuneration is EUR 50, that is to say, EUR 25 for each party, and for the remaining parties it is EUR 170, that is, EUR 85 for each party. Is this an indirect ban to address justice and a barrier so that it does not go to justice? I believe that if anyone expresses such a claim, he will not receive a positive comment from anywhere. However, such claims were heard by some legal circles, which, fortunately, were not expressed as a whole. I am referring to the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, mentioned by Mr Denkias. He failed to say, however, that of the fourteen members who took the decision, eight were in favour and six were against the decision taken by the association, in a way that was scientifically sound and complete of the bill that we are discussing today. Ladies and gentlemen, it would also make sense to discuss further what the JRC Parliamentary spokesman said that there are class barriers here, but even in the provision on labour disputes, which he mentioned and which is not included in the bill, the costs of mediation are laid down in the original draft. So where are the class barriers in this process? Just the opposite. Absolute protection exists, even in the full payment of the ombudsman's remuneration by the employer. Ladies and gentlemen, I have again said that with this bill this country is in line with an international situation. And here I would like to say to you - because much has been said - that it is not only Italy, which manages a similar situation with our own in terms of the framework of law. It is both Germany and England and Croatia and Hungary and Lithuania. While in France, Belgium, Serbia, Bulgaria and Poland the trend is towards the mandatoryity of certain differences. That is the reality of the European Union today, for which no one is speaking. Some even distort it. But what are the objectives of this bill? I have repeatedly stressed that a successful institution must operate first and foremost - and in Italy it produces annually on the two hundred and fifty thousand cases - and in Greece, which, as an informal institution, used years in many areas of our country, to strengthen the sense of resolving disputes not only through the break-up and judicial conflict and dispute but also with a spirit of consensus. To dismantle the courts from cases which can resolve in a way consensual, differences in private law. And, of course, there must also be an institutional upgrading of all those involved in the justice process, but not in the courts, first and foremost, of the partnership and institutional upgrading of lawyers. However, the savings of resources and of private and public resources from this process will be huge if it is completed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u200	Finish it. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, we have previously heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy succeeding against electronic auctions. I would like to repeat once again, whether it is electronic auctioning or the traditional auction we know, that is of no importance in terms of the protection the law provides for first-resident borrowers. And, finally, we want to hear a clear position from the New Democracy: is it in favour of modernising this system and for electronic auctions or is it not? Because by means of electronic auctions there is absolutely nothing to change in the protection of first home. And here it is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, to remember what happened at the last sitting of the House last year. I had asked the opposition parties, who claimed that they should be auctioned first homes to bring me one here in the House, not in the cafes, not in the TV windows. Here in the House, there should be one such example, not only to show that there is no first home auction. But, if there is, the government should take all those measures for further protection. Since then, ladies and gentlemen, until now no one has tabled anything at all. And why hasn't he testified it? Because there isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u202	Please, you're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u203	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. He made a mention of honorary and derogatory for Mr Mousala, claiming that the government is trying to overthrow decisions of justice regarding the eight Turkish officers. I, Mr Teddy, would like to ask you: do you know of any decision of justice that the government is trying to overthrow? Because the only thing the government has done is to have stated explicitly and unequivocally that the Ice Bay decision, as regards the procedure that had been discussed for the handover of these officers to Turkey, is irreversible and has legal effects vis-à-vis all. Therefore, the claim imposed cannot be implemented. The appeal, lodged by the Ministry of Migration Policy, does not refer to decisions of justice but to the decision of the Secondary Administrative Commission for Asylum. I would therefore ask you very much not to make any impressions when you refer to justice - and you know these very well, because you are a recognised legal person - to refer to real elements and not to fantasy scenarios, which are irresponsibly moving some circles. Not you - I stress - some circles. In any case, however, it is done irresponsibly. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u204	The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor. Keep in mind, for the economy of the debate, that only Mr Stathakis and Mrs Ahtsoglou, who will speak among the heads of the parties, are left in the minds of the Ministers. The speakers are over and there are four of the special speakers left, four minutes each. I mean, what I told you is that we can start the vote at 19: 00. I also say this for colleagues in the region, because today planes have special flights. Please, Mr. Xanthe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth asking ourselves what the economic, social and political environment is in which this debate and the vote on this multiplier plan are taking place. According to counterpopulation, it is an environment of destruction, collapse of the economy, bankruptcy of the country, non-existence of the government, imminent political overthrow. I think that this is exactly what, in my view, is the structural lie, the structural unreliability of criticism by opposition. Because society knows very well that for the first time the account of the final exit from the Memorandum of Understanding and the Budget Committee has acquired very specific and measurable material requirements. This is reflected in macroeconomic indicators, in indicators of unemployment, in private consumption, in investments, in the resolution of time-consuming problems, which were really afflicting both public life and citizens. The truth is, therefore, that, by closing this endlessness of evaluation and the commitments contained in this plan, in my view, the horizon for a sustainable exit from this terrible suffering and adventure, which Greek society and the country have entered, is now more visible and there is an increasing positive expectation for the people. In fact, - and this is very important - as has already been pointed out, this multi-legislative project includes very important, institutional changes - not fiscal measures, institutional changes - which face time shortages in the organisation of our country's state and public space. And I think that is reflected in the health measures. These are not public expenditure cuts. Obviously, we do not claim to be facing all the outstanding problems. They are, however, interventions that serve a central political objective, which is the equal and universal coverage of citizens' health needs through an upgraded public health system. A very important area of change that we are legislating with this multi-brand plan is the scope of evaluation of pharmaceutical innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to have a picture - in this area, that is, in the field of evaluating innovative medicines, there was no institutional procedure which would provide for effective control, on the basis of scientific criteria, of the real added value that a new medicine can have. This is the first institution in the country. As for the first time in the country, the interconnection of this assessment with the negotiation between the state and the pharmaceutical companies accessible and viable compensation prices, especially for expensive medicines, is being established. This is a very important innovation. It is indeed a critical intervention that ensures the survival of the health system and citizens' access to quality safe and truly innovative medicines. This, in my view, is an intervention that has the technical and scientific support of the World Health Organisation. It is an intervention that we have discussed in detail with the stakeholders. And I think that through an overall set of criteria it is ensured that the drug debate is transferred from the cost debate to its therapeutic value. This is of enormous importance and gives citizens, especially patients with chronic conditions, who expect new innovative medicines to have a better quality of life, to improve their life expectancy and possibly to be regarded as having guaranteed access to these medicines. There is also a criticism of insufficient negotiation on the part of the government against lenders. For the first time, a negotiation procedure was established and operated in the country between the state, the EEAS and the major pharmaceutical companies. We already have two such successful examples last year. One is about hepatitis C medicines and recently about malignant melanoma. This means that patients who have an indication of these medicines can get them, with the indications they need, of course, at prices that are really sustainable for the health system, which ensure that no one is excluded from the medicine necessary for purely financial reasons. More importantly, we have at the same time taken the lead as a country in transnational cooperation. There is an alliance between the eight countries of the European South, the Valletta alliance which prepares central negotiations, on behalf of all the citizens of these countries, with the multinational companies, which, in our view, will change the landscape in politics and relations between the national states and the industries. This is a very critical change that introduces this bill. A second field is the question of modernising the legislation governing medical clubs and the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association. It's a change that's agreed to the Panhellenic Medical Association. It modernises scattered decrees, royal decrees, forced laws of many decades ago and actually upgrades the role of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association and medical clubs, as also institutional interlocutors and advisors of the state in matters of public health. There is the question of working hours, there has been a lot of discussion on this, which concerns the operation of pharmacy. This is where we want to be very honest. The release of working hours has been introduced by a Memorandum of Understanding since 2011. We have six years of liberated operation and incompatibilities in the pharmaceutical market. Because there have been distortions and without it being a prerequisite for this assessment, we have raised the issue and succeeded in entering a framework, entering some insurance barriers, not what we would like. We have not managed to put the critical regulation that was to enter a maximum time limit on the daily functioning of the pharmacy. We have, however, made arrangements such as the compulsory participation of extended hours in on-calls, nights - bilaterals, the compulsoryity of the declaration of extended hours to pharmaceutical associations and regions, the minimum compulsory hours for all pharmacies, the prohibition of seasonal pharmacies, the abolition of certain symbolic misleadings, which are actually being reversed and competing pharmacy today in their operation. In a context which is inconsistent and unregulated, we have put in place regulations which, in our view, also ensure the proper functioning of the market and the citizens' access to medicines and the sustainability of the micro-medium pharmacy against the expansionist trend of so-called expanded pharmacys. It was not desirable, but we won the agreement with the institutions that we will re-examine it in the next few months and come back with a more complete and, I believe, a more convincing proposal. I think that, in fact, with all these changes, in my view, a fundamental political position is reflected in this plan that in the same Memorandum, in the same austerity environment, with the same ruthless commitments to creditors, a different political plan can be put into an austerity environment different economic, social and political priorities and that the huge, fundamental strategic difference between the Left and the Right, as Mr Vorides said the other day, has not been eliminated. We believe that at this juncture we have actually demonstrated that if you have in your ideological world-regulatory agenda baggage the idea of removing inequalities, the idea of social redistribution, the idea of supporting social goods, social rights, the idea of equality for people, then you can leave a print of social bias and sensitivity to the governance of the country. This is our great difference, that is why society, despite the pressure it has received, despite its discomfort, despite the tiredness of the protracted austerity, continues to expect a positive conclusion to this monumental adventure. I think we can really prove that the bet and the honest management of the Memorandum obligations and the sustainable exit from the crisis with society is realistic, it is possible and it can be completed in the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much. I invite Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I take the Step today earlier than I had planned. An extremely unpleasant event is forcing me and I call for the understanding of all of you and, above all, the Heads of the Anti-Population Party. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's debate and vote, a large and difficult cycle is closed, because in fact the legislative part of the prerequisites for completion and the third evaluation is being completed and everyone knows that, with completion and the third evaluation, we are now breathtaking from the end of the programme and the final end of the memoranda. I understand that this reality, while at the same time giving courage and hope to our millions of fellow citizens, who have suffered all these years very great sacrifices and are finally seeing light and outward, at the same time giving light, hope and courage to our millions of fellow citizens, gives rise to irritation and embarrassment to many. First of all, in the old political system that went bankrupt and plundered the country, not only because there will be no sign of a convincing wish on their part to the citizens in relation to what they have said throughout the four-year period, since even the most fanatical opponent of the current government is clearly made - I repeat - if he agrees or disagrees - that where the previous governments have failed again and again, this government seems to succeed. But it is not just the old political system that is frustrated and embarrassed. Those who had believed that the difficult choices we made in the summer of 2015 - they were almost certain - were choices that did not come out, those who believed and continue to believe and want this life to prove to them that the Left cannot play a leading role in developments like today - in relationships that were difficult, in bankruptcy within a union of states, which has no positive ideological and political mark as far as the interests of the labour forces are concerned - and that, when the people are ahead and trusted at difficult times, they must escape and hand over the country's rule to the opponent, the old political system, hide behind the security of the the theory and from the legal certainty that will come at some point, not by influencing developments, not by acting proactively, but by waiting some time on the Monday's presence, as the thousands do. We therefore made a very difficult decision in 2015, a difficult and historic decision. And honestly speaking without knowing, without having the certainty of what's going to come out of us, we made the decision to fight, to get our hands dirty, but not to escape. And almost everyone at that time had anticipated that this battle would be lost. But they forgot that, after all, history lasts long and that we will all be judged not by the juncture, we will be judged by history, mainly by the function of two factors: the alternatives that we had in front of us and that we have every moment in front of us but also the result produced which, as we know, needs time to be produced and also to be visible. Today, however, it begins slowly, cowards, to become visible. Next summer we leave behind the hardest period the country has experienced since 1974. And that is - I repeat - that some, instead of cheering them up, as I believe the majority of the Greek people, creates them irritation and embarrassment. We leave behind a period of cruel, unfair and multiplely harmful - not only economically - for the vast majority of our people and for our country as a whole, a period which will have lasted until the end of eight years. And it would last much longer if the Greek people had not made the courageous choice to send the parties that led Greece to bankruptcy and who plundered its potential at the headquarters of Anti-Population, parties that since 2010 have been ruling only with fear and then, since 2015, have only been fighting against catastrophe. Since the day we took over the rule, they have been permanently open to Pandora's box. I speed up - so that we do not forget, because we are entering, I repeat, in a year that I firmly believe will have a historical footprint and it is good to record - how the first time they reacted to the very great and difficult effort, in this big bet that we made in September 2015. I think there is no other Chief of Anti-Population historically - Mr Mitsotakis in this regard - who only a few months after the leadership took office called for elections in early 2016 and predicted that the first assessment would not be closed. And when we were in difficult negotiations in the spring of 2016, it emanated the certainty that the country will end up on the rocks. Later, when the first assessment was closed, he almost assured us that we will not achieve any of the programme's budgetary objectives and that it is the law that the cut - you remember it - will be activated. Although he was misguided by developments and at the end of the same year, in December of '16 instead of a cut came a dividend, he continued to the same violin and confirmed that this time the second assessment would not be closed and that the country was again heading for the rocks. And when the second evaluation was closed, despite the unprecedented difficulties of this evaluation and then closed with a zero extra budget balance, compared with what the lenders were asking for at the time, he said, "has closed, but in exchange for a fourth memorandum". When we went out on the markets in favourable terms later, he questioned it, comparing our own exit, the summer that passed us, with the exit of the Samara government at a rate close to 5%. And later, when the third evaluation was launched, he again assured that the third evaluation will be delayed so much that it is most likely that the programme will not be completed in August 2018. And some New Democracy officials or officials who move in the New Democracy environment informed investors that a major political and economic crisis is ahead of the country and that the evaluation will not be completed. And when it seemed that the third assessment is closing - even in a record time compared to all previous ones - and that the loan interest rates fell to historically low, the trophy has changed again, but the hawk has not changed. The third assessment is closed, we are told, but we will not get out of the memorandum in 2018, because we will have a special control regime by 2060, as will all the countries of the European Union that were forced to programmes and official lending. Of course, all these years, that is, all you have always anticipated and the same. In the New Year of 2016 you told us it was an election year in 2016. In the New Year of 2017 you told us it was an election year in 2017. And, of course, just recently, on New Year's Day of 2018, you informed us that it would be an election year and in 2018. I don't know, Mr. Mitsotakis, if you've hired an astrologer, an oriental or a psychic... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...but you know they tell you what you want to hear! I advise you to see reality and accept reality. I know that this is exceptionally difficult for you. But I think it is necessary. It will be good for you both in your prolongation and in your political system to accept that despite any predictions and any expectations, Greece has changed its way. And he does it at the wheel, not the parties that really led it to the rocks, but having the ones that you had anticipated that they would lead it to the rocks and now lead it to a clearing. Today the country, whatever you say, no matter how much you destroy it, is a country where its economy is finally recovering, a country that now achieves real growth rates in relation to the Eurozone, extremely important and, of course, a rate that you had not seen during the years of the crisis during which you have ruled nor in your dreams, Mr Mitsotakis. It has been reduced - because I consider that some of the most important economic indicators are more important and not only are growth rates at 1.7% - within three years of unemployment by about seven percentage points, and a decade-old record is recorded in attracting foreign direct investment close to EUR 4 billion in 2017. Also, bond yields for ten years are much less than 4%. They reached 3.6%, i.e. at 2006 levels four years before the crisis broke out, when no one could imagine what would come. These are the levels at which today's ten-year bonds are found. And this positive outlook for the Greek economy is also expected to be confirmed in the next period. We are, of course, waiting for it to be crystallised in the negotiations with our partners and in the crucial debt issue. And it is the goal following the formal conclusion of the agreement on evaluation in the next Eurogroup to go further with the concrete measures necessary to regulate the Greek debt, which is crucial, in order to give an even greater impetus to the country's growth potential, both in 2018 and in the coming years. It is true that we have never hidden that in the context we are still in - we have not come out of the programme - each negotiation also results in successes and compromises, in concessions. We never hid that. After all, that is the main reason why we are working so that in the summer of 2018 we can completely leave this restrictive framework. However, even in these circumstances we always come to negotiations with a view to making use of every possible margin to widen the possibility of taking measures for the benefit of the social majority. We have achieved this to a very large extent in all three evaluations, despite the fact that all three compromises obviously had some retreat on our part. In the third assessment - and I would remind you that some people then came forward after the second one - to anticipate that it will be much more difficult and much more painful than the second one, and it turned out to be unfair - and in this draft law in particular, positive arrangements are quite more than any changes that are taking place in another direction than we in the negotiation. So let me begin by the arrangements that are at the core of our strategy, because I would like to remind you that this House is not sitting only in order to implement prerequisites, despite the fact that we are in a memorandum period. In the six-month period between the second and third assessments, the government has brought to Parliament a comprehensive bill on health, primary care, higher education, research, labour and social rights. It is therefore at the heart of our strategy that the self-evident reform of the Land register should finally take place, as well as the approval of forest maps throughout the country. It is incomprehensible in the year 2018 that there is no official public authority responsible for these issues that are elementary for spatial planning and environmental protection, as was the choice of the New Democracy and PASOK to have this huge void for so many years and to live in the era of golden buffalo and fetuses of the Ottoman period. I really want to ask myself: you, who call yourself so-called reformers, modernists, liberals, capable and excellent defenders of law and the rule of law, because in forty years you have been unable to move into such an institutional section and have only ratified 0.8% of all forest maps? What has changed now in two and a half years we have managed to do so far and have repaid 32%? You're talking about reform. You stand forth in great reformists, but this is also the big mistake, the great damage you have caused - if you like - to public debate, because in the collective consciousness of citizens, when the word'reform' is heard - you are responsible for this - the mind goes only to cut pensions, to austerity, to negative reforms, and the country needs structural reforms that you have never dared. For the first time these structural reforms are an attempt to promote them. A separate example is the fact that, despite your strong opposition, we managed to put a order in the broadcasting scene after thirty whole years of lawlessness. As much as you fought and as much as you continue to fight this important effort, lawlessness in the broadcasting landscape now ends. But I'm coming back to the bill. It's not just forest maps. It is also a number of provisions, such as the ranking order of creditors, where a positive privilege is created for workers who are engaged in the bankruptcy of a company or for further simplification of licensing procedures for companies, where a number of painful bureaucratic obstacles are circumvented. These are, therefore, those which you have not succeeded for so many years, despite the fact that you are called reformers. I just want to mention some of them. Why? Because I believe that they are showing a basic distinction towards what is currently happening in the country in relation to what has been the case in the previous years. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not only have a plan and aim to get the country out of this really negative, difficult bankruptcy situation and the memorandum regime. But we also have a vision of Greece - slowly becoming a modern European rule of law which will, among other things, have a strong and effective legislation in terms of the needs of the citizen, public administration, which will respond to the modern needs of the state, business and citizens, without the chaos of the pluralism and bureaucracy which each time favours a network of blackmail, customer regulation and mediation. Our vision goes through and through the end of a practice which the previous governments have established and served for decades, the grey areas in legislation, the incomplete mutual provisions, the legislative gaps even in obvious issues, all that was finally resolved by photographic provisions and ministerial decisions to maintain a customer regime for governments and their parties toward citizens. Let me also address two further issues in the Multifibre Plan and which have become the subject of extreme distortion that leads to misleading and ultimately hypocrisy. And I'm explaining: Firstly, on the issue of family allowances, in the previous budget we adopted 260 million euros more for the child. The total budget of family allowances for 2018 is EUR 650 million at EUR 910 million. This increase also goes hand in hand with an attempt to rationalise the distribution of allowances. In this way, seven hundred thirty thousand family from the eight hundred thousands who receive family allowances will see a very significant increase, as well as a doubling of the allowance they receive, with substantial reinforcement of the benefits of the first and second children. What is the reason for this rationalized and, in our view, a fair system? We increase the allowances for the first and second children and change the rates from the third and above, so families with three children will receive the allowance of the first child not by three but by four. Families with four children will receive the first child’s allowance not for four but for six. Families with five children will receive the first child’s allowance not for five but for eight and so on. I don't have to tire this House. This restores a great injustice towards families with one or two children, which is the vast majority of families in our country, and that is why seven hundred and thirty thousand families are favored. And, of course, it rationalises a system that was deliberately distorted and not to address the problem of birthhood in our country. In order to deal with the problem of fertility, the first and second children must be subsidised. Thousands are these families and thousands are the new couples today who want to have a first or a second child and do not have the opportunity. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It was a distortion that you had created in the context of a consistent conception, in order to favour, by means of customer regulations, specific categories for voting reasons. And I ask you: if that is not populism, then what is populism, Mr Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u208	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u209	Is it polite for you to try to defend the worker's right? Is it for you that we gave close to the one and a half billion social dividends to those who needed it, and not especially to the category that you gave it for customer, votership in 2014? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But now I come to the about 100 thousand three-tiers and multitasks. Half of them will also see increases in the amounts they receive as aid. There is indeed a small numerical category, which will suffer some reductions. We are prepared - and in the next few months we will make announcements, after considering solutions - this loss in respect of the year 2018 to be covered... [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] ... that there is a transitional stage in which the transition to a fair and rational system will not bring about significant reductions in those who had benefited in previous years. We will not, however, allow this incredible distortion to continue in a sector where we have an absolute priority and every year we increase the budget - and this year we increase it by EUR 260 million - in circumstances of crisis. However, there is also one issue on which misleading can benefit some politicians, but it certainly does not help anyone. And I refer to the issue of a quorum for proclaiming a strike in the primary unions. Let me briefly refer to a short period of time of the negotiation of this government during the second assessment, with regard to labour issues. We had three issues on the table: collective agreements, the liberalisation of collective redundancies and the introduction of the competitivity, the so-called lock out, on the part of employers and the trade union law, where, indeed, there was a demand - I would remind you - for the clause on the redundancy of trade unions. What we achieved in the negotiation: Then - I would remind the House - when we did not see any mobilisation or any manifestation of support in our attitude by the then official bodies of the trade union movement, and in particular by the GCC, which in the summer of 2015 knew how to speak, he knew to stand in favour of "NEI" - the GSE - in the referendum, in the "intent Europe",... [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] ...but when we were fighting for the return of collective bargaining, they had mouths and they didn't have words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u210	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u211	When we fought for the return of work normality in Greece and gave the battle to join - and it joined - the declaration of Rome, I remind you that we had only the European trade unions with us then. Our trade unionists had their mouths, but they didn't have a word. So what did we do? We have succeeded in reintroducing collective labour agreements, prevented the irrational and anti-pollutant demands in the second and third pillars, the retreat, the release of redundancies and everything else the package contained. And what's left? The change in the quorum in the primary unions. What does this arrangement say? This provision stipulates that, in primary clubs, which are not wider local, when a general meeting is convened to take a strike decision, the "50% plus 1" of the financially settled members should be present. Look, he doesn't say half the club members should vote in favour of the strike. It does not say "50% plus 1" of all members of the club vote in favour of the strike. The arrangement stipulates that they should simply be present at the general meeting in order for the general meeting to have a quorum. This provision does not apply to associations in the whole of Greece, i.e. associations of workers in a supermarket or banks, where, as provided for in Article 1264, the board of directors takes it, it does not apply to associations of a larger size, such as the Attica Association. The Board of Directors shall take the decision there. This provision does not, therefore, alter the way in which a decision is taken on a strike, which is always taken with the relative majority of the present. I do not want to stay in the GFCM leadership, nor do I want to denounce the attitude of the JRC and the POMM. I'm being honest with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u212	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u213	I will not denounce it because, ladies and gentlemen, it would be an exaggeration to ask the WEU to understand the framework of the negotiation or not to claim. The JRC also has a different view, a separate view, publicly recorded that the country must come out of the Eurozone and the European Union. Otherwise, if we disagree, there's no reason he's ever explained why and how he's gonna be better there for the powers. But he has a distinct view. What I would like to denounce, however, as completely false and also immoral, is the campaign conducted on the grounds that the rule of quorum in primary school is a total abolition of the right to strike and, more importantly, the unconscious lie! - that this government is supposed to implement literally the requirements of creditors and BSE for the deregulation of the labour market. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So you are listening to them - rather than looking at what the IMF and BSE are asking for, but above all - if that is not satisfied with you - you only have to ask Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy, genuine expressors of the views of the IMF and BSE, to tell you their positions and opinions on employment and what they have been asking for. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So what the New Democracy is asking for today is not a quorum in its primary '50% plus 1', but a majority in its decision '50% plus 1' and not just in the primary. So do not scour the defeat in the world of work that the right to strike is abolished. The right to strike is and continues to be a sacred conquest of the working class and is neither abolished nor threatened by this government! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We want unions and trade unions to be massive, combative and lasting action against the phenomena of employers' autocracy and a violation of labour law. We've made a huge effort in difficult and adverse conditions. Ask and compare the results of the Labour Inspectorate on previous governments and on this government. Ask and compare. The Labour Inspectorate from a seal has turned into a real weapon for workers. Only two figures will I quote: When this government took over in 2015, the part-time-time relationship was 60-40 in favour of part-time work. Today this has been reversed. He still needs effort. We're not satisfied. However, the fact that it has been reversed in 60-40 for the full, is an important conquest for the data of the crisis that we are going through. And that trend we reversed with hard work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u214	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u215	And, of course, today's new jobs are three hundred and twenty thousand more. And most of the new jobs are in full-time jobs, if that's what it says. I'm going to report another lead. We managed to drop the undeclared labour rate from 19% to 13%. This is the really essential service we offer the workers, concrete and tangible, without screaming and mourning for the evil they have found us, but with a constant effort not to escape, but to give in favour of the forces of work, so that whatever carcase there is to be in favour of them. Think of what would happen over the last three years if they stayed here in the governance positions in relation to jobs. Think of what would happen when and now also strongly support the views of the International Monetary Fund and the Greek Industrial Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u216	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u217	So next time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u218	Who are these "they" here? Be more decent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u219	They ask me who the 'these' are here. They're the ones who led the country to bankruptcy. They're the ones who looted the public wealth. These are the ones whose years of growth were taking misery and sea-loving. They are the ones who have the great responsibility for the bankruptcy of the country, and now they are swinging the finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u220	"They here" do not exist!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u221	Don't bother!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u222	Don't shout. Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u223	Don't bother! Mr Mitsotakis will shortly speak and he will highlight the real ideological differences, he will show the real difference towards a government that is fighting for the benefit of workers despite the unfavourable correlations and some who are seeking to return to the positions of power to continue the devastating work they have produced over the past few years. But this will not be allowed by the Greek people at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u224	"They here"? Aren't you ashamed? You're a Prime Minister too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u225	They've been clarified. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, to withdraw the gentleman!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u227	Please, Mr. Davaki. They've been clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u228	Have you ever heard of this Chamber before...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u229	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u230	Are you President of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u231	Please, Mr. Davaki. It is a matter of clearing up the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u232	You calm down, so I can go on? I would therefore like to close, ladies and gentlemen, particularly by referring to those who speak on the left. The next time your executives and unions visit the Ministry of Labour, they don't need either TV workshops or broken windows. Dialogue needs, updates need, vigilance is needed, if your real concern is - and I believe it is - to improve working class living conditions. That's what it takes. Vigilance, dialogue and understanding of what reality we are living in, what connections and in what context we are trying with every power to gain ground for the benefit of the forces of work. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I conclude by saying that today's vote will be crucial for speeding up the country's exit from the memoranda in seven months from now. And that's what makes some people so nervous today in the Chamber who are offended because I told them "they here", when they tell us from here this Step "killers, cheaters", "fals". Hey, they're here, these gentlemen who have ruled over all the previous years! They're offended! But irritation is reasonable and we must understand it. The hard stuff is behind us now. In front of us we have a great deal of effort, gradually healing the wounds of the crisis and bringing the country where we believe it really deserves. We have a big bet in front of us. And this bet we have described as the bet of fair growth, the bet on increasing wealth and wages, strengthening real production, investment and innovation. And you know, this bet will not only be won at the level of numbers and indicators. It will be judged in particular in the field of the real improvement of the standard of living of citizens, the increase in full-time jobs, the increase in workers' available income, the further upgrading of the social state and social services, the more effective operation, in order to really serve the needs of the citizen, the public administration. I firmly believe that 2018 will be a landmark year for the country's final transition to a new era. And I am now sure that, however difficult this may be, we will manage. And we will achieve this by persuading those who are today both frustrated and embarrassed and on our right side and on our left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how to operate, forty students and students and three teachers from the 3rd Gymnasium of Pyrgos (first section), as well as thirty-five students and schoolchildren and three teachers from their 3rd Gymnasium of Pyrgos (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u234	I welcome the ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers. The Prime Minister left, of course, because he had more serious tasks. Previously, when he was in opposition, he complained that the Prime Minister was missing. However, this seems to be the joint illness of the Prime Ministers. You will tell me: Why would they be listening, since there is nothing to accept from what others are proposing? So they better go. He said at a moment of his speech - and this time I think it was 'all the pounds and all the money' - that the government's policy is in the climate, global, international, in reality. That is where Mr Tsipras lives and based on this reality. So in 2014, who promised to tear up memoirs, he was in his world. By the time he's actually here, he's been to Mars and he's promised. Anyway. And that's a confession of honesty. That's something. The bills of the 'pasparat', the bills with a thousand three hundred pages, do not understand what bills they are. Within 40 hours the House had to read them, decide to bring further amendments to them. Has anyone read this from the majority, from the government? Because you are not a popular majority, you are a parliamentary majority. Another popular majority. Isn't that right? Why did Kammenos take the election? How long did SYRIZA get? If we sum it up, it was 35% and 3%, 38%. How long has it been now? Let's go be 20%. So you're a popular minority with a cathedral law, occasional parliamentary majority. These bills that come in this way - quickly to be voted on without anyone reading them - what kind of bills are they? Where are they looking? They're looking forward to not reading them either. If, in other words, one of you told you three years ago that the time would come when SYRIZA would set up a casino, which SYRIZA would cut out luxury, three-square, four-square, if he told you they'd cut off tax exemptions, you'd call him crazy. You'd say a left government can't do that. Now, how was the Prime Minister justified? He said that within this climate of international reality, so only he can govern, that is all he can do. Here's a good excuse. Forensicing against society and having the international climate as an excuse, that it won't allow you to do so. Mr Tsipras accused the Left of being against the euro against Europe. Were few in SYRIZA who were against Europe and against the euro? In discussions that I had with ordinary voters or officials where I was going all over Greece in 2015, I am damned if at 10 o'clock SYRIZA, one or two were for the euro. Everyone else called the same thing as the JRC. It's just that the JRC has a consequence, even though it feels the country's suicide. On the contrary, Tsipras did his thing. It calls it'realism' and explained it that way. I guess he didn't explain it at all. He said a word about delusion and that was all. I think this bill is a bill of shame. Those who vote for it will be ashamed of you in the day after you voted for it. Keep my note on it. You'll be ashamed and apologise to both your children and your grandchildren for voting for it. The Prime Minister has made promises that he will correct the injustice made in luxury. So, what's that? First we do the injustice and then we promise to make a correction? And you all applauded that. Is that a policy, first, to cut benefits and then applaud you by your MPs, with the promise that you will bring them back? Is that a policy method? It is for business to say that it is not damage because - the Prime Minister said - it does not ask for 50% of the subscribed but for those that are cash-driven. Did he say that before the election? Did he say that I'm going to bring it up from 30% who's now at 50%? A Prime Minister is only entitled to do what he has said. That's what I think. Only what he has said is entitled to do. Listen to something, I myself as Vassilis Leventis and our party, the Centro Association, - this party was forty years ago in the House - we were against trade union immunity and I thought that great damage to business was created by unnecessary strikes. And many businesses in Perama, Lavrio and Chalkida had been closed down because of uncoordinated strikes. Then it was the time of trade unions' almightyness. And indeed, at that time some intervention was needed to stop this immunity of the trade unions. But now that the workers are half the unemployed, now that more than half of those working are in the system of semi-employment, I feel, ladies and gentlemen, that the workers need support. And I think what Mr. Tsipras does is a crime against the working class. Now the terms are overturned. We first had the trade unions' intransigence because of which unemployment was being created. We now have the intransigence of the rulings, which create chains of 'luke and unemployment'. You see, a party when it assesses reality cannot be the same infinitely because reality itself is changing. Then we had to protect the businesses. Now we must protect workers from the troika, from the irreversible policy of governments, and so on. That's why I think SYRIZA is being criminalised when it introduces this 50%. He needs to explain why he's importing it. To stop strikes, he does. All the other ways and explanations he says here are prophecies in sin. Mr. Pappas made a call for the channels. I have no objections. This had to be the notice. It says, however, that the advertising tax was deducted and entered an annual rent of 3 million. And he says it's the same. So what did we do? What did we put in the canals? What money did we get, since the cost of advertising tax is about balanced by that rent that comes in? What's the change? In their own hands are about the channels. So, why is this - now lasting two years - an attempt by Mr. Pappa? What does he want to fix, since they stayed with them and won't get any more money? I don't understand this battle. Do we have political training here? Do we have vendetta? You have identified, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - if not you, then Mr Kotzias, and if not Mr Kotzias, then the "circles" of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - the Church with the Golden Dawn. When you don't like something, explain it as you like: The Church is identified with Golden Dawn. Why does it match the Golden Dawn? Because it is of the opinion that Macedonian should not be given to the Skopje. That's what you say. But that's disrespectful. Some hierarchs may be far right, this is true, and they may have made arson statements, which are inconsistent with the spirit of Orthodox religion, but not that religion is identical with the Golden Dawn. That's an abomination and you take it, you're attacking a terrible charge. The Church stays at its height. He doesn't want to interfere in politics, as you say. Where did he intervene? She said her opinion, but you don't want her to have an opinion either. You want a simple association to have an opinion, but the Church is not entitled, in you, to have an opinion. We are saying to you, the humble party of the Centro Association, that you are now seeing a small party and now you are many here in SYRIZA, but to see in tomorrow's House how many of you and from New Democracy - that we will also correct the law in the gender identity. We can't let 15-year-old children define themselves. I also think yesterday a poll came out saying that 70% of the people do not want the name Macedonia to be delivered. So why are you blaming the Church? Because he took a position with the majority perception? Why do you blame her on the Church? I think we are also ungrateful here, because neither Mr Skourletis' father nor Mr Friends nor Mr Tsipras's father fought, so that we can be free and enjoy ourselves here - supposedly - a democratic city.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u235	Who are they who fought?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u236	Some others and not you, sir. I don't know your name. If you have a Macedonian father to tell me again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u237	Where do we find him? We're refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u238	Okay, but you're giving Macedonia to the Skopje. You'll be very happy to give it to me. Now I'm going to say a few things about the New Democracy. Here I have a 1959 government paper with Prime Minister Constantine Karamanlis. He is in connection with the State of Yugoslavia and is calling Skopje "The People's Republic of Macedonia". With the signature of Constantine Karamanlis, sheet number 238, Official Journal of the Government of 5 November 1959. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I watch the channels parade by Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Hatzidakis of the New Democracy and say that "we are in the national line of Bucharest". Is Bucharest a national line? Bucharest is Nova Makedonija, is complex with the concession of the word Macedonia. Is the New Democracy seriously defending this, that the name Macedonia should be given to the Skopje? Is that your position? Mrs Bakoyannis said that, as Mr Hatzidakis said, you have a national position, it is the position of Bucharest. Unless you don't know what you want and what you have. You've been lured into a trap by Mr. Tsipras. Instead of defending the position of 1992, which is a national position of all political leaders, for the sake of Costas Karamanlis, who you have in your ranks, you have considered Bucharest as a national line. But Bucharest, ladies and gentlemen, is not a national line. Bucharest is a national defeat. National minority is Bucharest. And stop invoking it because you will be punished by the people of Macedonia. And it's not just Macedonia that she doesn't want her name to be given. Why, do you think Crete wants to? The Peloponnese wants it? Does Athens want to name Macedonia to the Skopje? Some people say in defeat, yours and SYRIZA, "always, the whole world calls it Macedonia. And what happened? The political leaders in 1992 did not know? Did they not know that both Russia and America and all the Great Powers had agreed to recognise it?’ They knew it, but they had a patriotism unnegotiated in 1992. And the time she's been slapping ever since should not give any tender tenders. On the contrary, it must arm the country with diplomatic arguments and a diplomatic struggle to win the battle. While here in all the channels you are setting up "pads" that say "pads" that say "pads", the time has come for the crew of time, we can't withstand this looseness anymore", that is, you're setting up treason, I'd say, because betrayal will eventually be. I, too, hope that we will cancel this betrayal, because neither the opinion of all of us can be taken into account nor can you tell us that the Golden Dawn does not want to. Let's do whatever they want on the far right! The extreme right of the patriots doesn't want to! After all, the extreme right is against Europe and against the euro! But we in the center are defending our homeland. And the Maker and George Papandreou would not give, they would not grant. Don't the House do this crime! I told the President of the Republic himself on 1st of the year: 'Do not commit this slip to agree. You will be charged with a great stigma, far greater than that of the Zurich and London agreements." In the Zurich and London agreements, do you know what happened? Turkey was not a guarantor, and Karamanlis and Averof gave it the place of the guarantor. A child to have there should understand that by giving the Turks the place of the guarantor sooner or later they will get off to understand Cyprus. Karamanlis didn't understand and he came here and put on ads that the Cyprus issue was solved. And George Papandreou tells him in the House "not only he was unsolved, now the tragedy begins". So, let Mr. Tsipras also notice that on the other hand there are people who are sympathetic, that they are reasonable for the first time in Skopje, they are not like the previous ones. Notice that all of this tends to get the name. Greece has nothing but the name. If we give the name, they'll drop some statues, they'll withdraw from the websites some perfume articles, to convince us that they're moderate and modest and in a few months they'll return and the statues will return, and the articles on mutilation will return, and then I want to see who of this Chamber will do plentiful about treason and what you'll say to the younger ones! Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I think we've handled this wrong from the start. We had to provide financial compensation, we had to fight to change a name, and we had to take over the fixing of their state either economically in NATO or in the European Union. We have had many and varied exchanges to offer, as long as they also convince us that they do not have allergy gaze. You need to understand that. With a temporary withdrawal of statues, I am not convinced that they have no anti-corrosion eyes. Furthermore, Parliament has no right to grant anything. There in Macedonia blood was spilled on people who left Crete, from the Peloponnese and fought. With what convenience will this House grant the name Macedonia? With what convenience? Is that your name? If it was yours, give it to you! Some of you have been saying 'give it up' since 1990. Because a reporter told me 'they matured'. But I'm saying, they didn't have to grow. Since the '90s, the coalition has been saying, give it up. Most of the Coalition - Papadimoulis, Kouvelis - the governors of the Coalition, who are even now, have been in the position of "put the name over, there's no problem, looking at the rest". How do we look at the rest? What insurance policy are we going to look at the rest of it? Are we going to let us trust the gentlemen? So we're showing in this Chamber naiveness? Then I have another for Mr. Muzala. He said he has evidence that eight Turks are involved in the coup. He added, of course, I don't know. He has evidence of the fact that the Turks are involved in the coup, but he doesn't even know! And the Turks took it and "clicked it" that Greece holds coups. Or man does not do for politics and has shown urgency or has to retire. As I requested from the last time, you will withdraw Mr Contonis, who continues to fight against justice that I do not understand. Justice publishes documents, sends them to us in the information booklets, and, on the other hand, Contonis swears. Where will this situation develop? What state has benefited from the conflict between justice and political life, which country has benefited? And why don't you MPs go to your Chief and tell him that fight is over? Why are you offering justice to the New Democracy? Justice is a pillar of confidence for all Greek citizens. It must not be identified with a party or with a party of justice. We have asked for an independent authority in the polls. Make a company finds, counts, control them, within forty-eight hours, and then a newspaper or a channel announcing the result. Three times the Prime Minister has said yes, but he's not moving. I don't understand, that Prime Minister when he says yes does mean no? I'll translate it from now on. I will take note of them not if they are done, because yes will apply as yes, no way. What do you want to keep this mess going? Yesterday he had a survey of a newspaper - the "PRO theme" - we have no problem saying it - where he had 2.8% of the Centro Association and in which he was doing it, the company "Marc", 3.40 average price and nine MPs in the Centroon Union. So if you were to read in, the Central Association was inside. If you read the front page only, it was outside. Of course I don't believe in 3.4%. I believe that in the end they shaved the groom, because in 2015 they were talking about Lafazanis 6.5% and the Central Association 2%, and Lafazanis the poor man runs now and supports where he does what he does and the Central Association is in Parliament, because that was the will of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, I accept that the international scene is very fluid - there is no doubt - and within such a fluid scene, indeed, parties are forced to be redefined. But here, in the case of SYRIZA, we have no redefinition. We have the west that went to the east and east in the west. The horizon points have now lost their value. Compressions were destroyed by SYRIZA. There's no more value on ships to have compass. Because instead of going to Crete you can go to Volos. I fear that Mr Tsipras will remain in history, as the Prime Minister fighting in the midst of a painful reality, to prove that there is neither a base nor a consequence in politics. But I mean something for Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Mitsotakis insists on the reinforced bonus of the fifty seats and on returning self-power. That's where he insists. Mr Mitsotakis should be very careful, because if Mr Mitsotakis comes, he will also sign it. It won't cut taxes. What will cut off, be wages and pensions and impose new taxes. Because where's he gonna get money? If the New Democracy party had solutions, two and a half years ago, it would have presented them. There are no magical solutions. I can accept that he wants to reduce taxes. But today, in order to reduce taxes, you have to bring investment and invest, we need a normal political climate, a strong government and not a government with a limit of fifty-two, fifty-three Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I would ask you to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u240	So Mr Mitsotakis is hostage to a painful reality. Even if she becomes Prime Minister, she will owe that to Mrs Gennimata, because she did not vote for the simple proportionally a year ago. That's where he's going to be Prime Minister. But even the Prime Minister will collapse in six or seven months at most, because he has lied so much, that he will bring investments, that he has solutions to one and the other, and that he has been taught by the mistakes of the past, which the people will be disappointed very quickly. So then both Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis will have to ask me for an apology, but above all for an apology from the Greek people, because we could already have created a serious government. Tsipras now says the government is serious when he says we leave the memorials in August 2018? And Vizer comes out and says that to make debt adjustment, there must be another program, there must be other conditions. And Draghi goes out and says "In your hand is to go out". So maybe we don't get out. So the strangers come out and warn that we're not dating. Only Tsipras believes that we are dating and it looks very similar to Mr Samaras, who, with his statements in December 2014, said that we are dating. They are two Prime Ministers who lie with a party purpose, that is to say, to convince the audiences without compromising the cost for the country. It's too much the cost. So when we eat another semester with the Mitsotakis Prime Minister and collapse, and when you all realize that Vassilis Leventis entered this Chamber and said it forty years later Odyssey across Greece outside the House, then you will understand how much this House has committed, which applauds the lies of Mr. Tsipras and soon is ready to applaud the other lies of Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u241	We will now give the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, it really needs a great deal of political enthusiasm, to escalate the attack on the populace, and at the same time to claim that you are already in favour of the socially weak. It really needs political unwillingness, political cynicism, to baptise privileged people, those who are not yet part of the extreme poverty group, and to ask for new sacrifices from the wage earners, the self-employed, while at the same time strengthening the large capital. You are talking about the so-called fair development that will come next year, even describing August and the so-called ending of the memoranda as a point of philosophical turn of your policy. But no one can cheat too many for a long time. Who are you kidding? Do you think the Greek people will not know the whole truth? Will he not understand who pays for the giant primary surpluses you signed and predict to launch the surplus for 2018 until 2022 at 3.5%? He won't know about the continuing surplus by 2060? Will he not know about the new measures that are coming in 2019 and 2020 and, of course, whether everything goes well? But if the economic situation changes, the measures will be even more painful. Is it true who will pay for these surpluses? You are concerned about the so-called over-efficiency of budgetary measures, about the fact that you have achieved - this verb - higher surpluses than you predict. However, the surpluses that you have achieved, ladies and gentlemen, have literally achieved by bringing workers, employees, self-employed professionals, farmers with low taxes, impeccable insurance contributions, wage cuts, reductions in allowances. As if not all of this is enough, fair growth brings you further measures in the next period. You bring a new "Axe" to pensions, which will further reduce the standard of living and ultimately the life of pensioners. Keep it well in mind. When you see it going much below the life expectancy today, you know that you've put your hand in, because that's what you're, financial executioners that you're busting workers for the interests of big capital. Aren't you now doing this with the family allowance, which is affecting, in particular, thousands of families of three and tents? Aren't you aiming at disabled people's benefits? Aren't you opening the way to hurt the long-term sufferers? At the same time, you are also deleting the allowance for unhealthy heavy work in public sectors. Really, where does that all lead? Cool executioners of the people's strata are being made, and that's why you'll be sure you'll be answerable. Next time to achieve the primary surpluses you want, you bring a new tax raid to employees and pensioners, reducing tax duty to less than 6000 euros a year. You refer to 50 % plus 1, as if you know nothing about employers' terrorism in places of work and the role of government and employers' union. Mr. Tsipras just now tried to convince both the Greek people and some of your gullibles that you are bringing changes that will benefit the country as a whole, the people, the workers. You have the courage to talk about the law that you do. You are trying to show even the provisions of the plan as provisions that restore social justice. However, as long as you are trying, reality is cruel, it is impeccable and crushes any attempt to cover it up. Of course tongues blundering the truth say, the ancient Greeks say. You yourself admit that you are constantly slapping your hands - Mr. Tsipras said so - to sit in the chair of the government authority. That god you worship the chair. But, as you always see, the political fraud has close legs. Politician is the term. It cannot be covered and disorientated for long. Whatever side of today's multi-project we look at, we will always see the same uniquely beneficial and always uniquely lost. The moto that suits you is not 'the law that is being acted'. What you should have said, if you had had had even a small dose of political honesty, would have been 'any unjust thing for our people, what the big chapter asked us to do is act'. The capital has asked you, for example, to undermine the right to strike and to do so. His representatives applaud you and congratulate you, unless you say that BSE, which wants to demolish whatever labour right he has left, is interested in the proper functioning of the unions and the great involvement of workers in the strikes, in order to have greater efficiency and in order to give them more pay and more rights. Your ability to reverse reality will be truly proverbial. But the point here is, you're starting to blow off the right to strike. The pain did not take on you nor your political bosses from BSE for the expansion of democracy in the workplace. What you're interested in is how you're gonna put further obstacles. Anyone who has at least one hour passed through a factory or even outside at least one place of work knows about the continuous shifts, knows that the place of residence extends along several tens of kilometres beyond the place of work, to gather 50% plus 1 of the workers in the union, to have a quorum. Because you know people work at a factory, but they stay in the surrounding villages, in the surrounding cities, they get away from the workplace. In fact, all day they pass it by moving and coming back. In most factories, in most workplaces it is forbidden by employers within the workplace for the assembly to take place. Where, then, will this quorum become? And that's a primary union, not even a branch. It's a factory union that we're talking about. Much more when something happens exceptionally, when workers must immediately press, claim from their employer, seek to resolve matters that arise daily in the workplace from fatal accidents to redundancies and so many others. The assembly of their union with 50% plus 1 of them must be organized immediately so that they can get a quorum and then decide within a few hours to declare the right, which has been conquered by blood, of the strike. Who also does not know about employers' terrorism that the many places we are talking about today are really ghettos? The problems of rebuilding the movement, raising the participation, improving the trade union function that exist, are not the responsibility of the urban state, its government, the BSE government, supposedly try to resolve them with various legal repressive measures in substance. They concern only the internal procedures of the trade union movement, workers, through their statutes, their assemblies and their meetings. Workers are the only ones responsible for deciding how, when and what to do to improve their function, their participation, their racing activity. And that's what they're gonna do. But you're also unbelievable except for the others. All conquests and workers' rights have been conquered all these decades, all over the last century against government leaders and laws, against the objectives of BSE. So today's laws tell you again and from the Step of the House, they will remain inactive. They'll be overturned in practice. Of course, it's not just the gruesome things you're bringing. The capital in the banks has asked you to speed up the auctions so that people's homes can get out of the hammer and, above all, to blackmail the popular mattresses, give them what they have and don't have the banks, so that they don't lose their home and do it. Bring in a generalisation of electronic auctions and incorporate there the unjust debts of the people's layers towards the public, debts that have been incurred by a tax system, aiming to break tax layers, to extract people's economies, to fuel your own capitalist development. You don't convince anyone when you're talking about a gentlemen's deal, so that it won't become a first home auction. And that is for two reasons: firstly, the morality of capital is only its profit. When the time comes, they will join without any quarrel and as many first homes as they ask for capital. Besides, if it were otherwise, the first residence would be legally protected, but it is not. So shells, promises that don't convince anyone. The second is, however, the most important reason, because the goal of the banks is not to immediately pull tens of thousands of local families into the hammer together. The aim of the banks is to blackmail first, with the threat of auctioning, workers, to unite them with the Katselis law, in order to repay the greatest possible portion of their loan, after they have managed to cover any other asset of economic interest. The goal of the banks and loved ones, now, to you funds, is to convert the popular layers to de facto dwelling renters. After all, the European Union has been seeing this for many years as a problem, he says, in the Greek economy. The high percentage of self-residential activity, that is, which prevents mobility, as he says, of workers, who keep them tied up and prevents the capital from exploiting them in their proper manner. That's how you bring the tomacle busts of auctions for all. Whoever doesn't pays, loses his house, his savings, his car. And you have the courage to dance over the misfortune of all those who owe the tax, to scorn about how much your "papers" are receiving, about how big the surplus you have achieved. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what do the electronic auctions, which you promote for every debt to banks and tax? They're showing you don't go as easy as you thought or would. They show that society itself is against you. They show that it is not justice in the name of the Greek people to auction but only in the name of the great capital. It shows that your policy has lost its popular base, so you're forced to proceed to auctions on mosquitoes from far away, like thieves. Of course, capital has asked you for many other things. He demanded, above all, that you shape those conditions that guarantee its profitability. Really what a surprise, of course, that too! What the big chapter has asked you to do again has been done. The bill you bring is intended to facilitate capitalist investment as required for the capitalist recovery of the next period and it does so by sacrificing workers' rights. From the Land register and the Mining Code to the mediation and your attempt to abolish the strike, the class mark of your policy is absolutely clear. You sacrifice all people's rights in the face of the profitability and attraction of big capital. That is why, Mr Tsipras, we tell you that you are the best servant of major groups, banks, shipowners, BSE and capital. The criticism you are being criticised by the Qualified Opposition, that the bill you bring is a technical welding of unrelated legislation, is ultimately more de-orientative, and, of course, the New Democracy helps you in fact. You're not unrelated or clipboards. A common factor, a common thread that runs your bill, is to ensure the profitability of the groups and the areas you choose to open up, are not random, are not new. You are bringing a number of critical regulations to those areas where your political bosses have decided they want to invest because they see opportunities for great profits. That is why the various changes that you are bringing today have been proposed by others from the World Bank to the various chambers of cooperation with other countries that are working in our country. You bring the new Land register, which brings together in a single structure the current Land register and the mortgages and you want to convince, how your aim is to modernise a system that has been in existence for decades. But you cannot explain why the World Bank is so insistent on this regulation going ahead. For the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce, the Hellenic-German Chamber of Commerce and other Chambers had made their own flag in their previous studies, the need to modernise the framework governing the real estate in the country as a key axis of development long before the crisis took place. As much as you're trying to hide behind thick words, the answers are rather simple. Your aim is to form a framework of land use and land ownership, which more effectively serves the needs of the few, the great capital, a framework whereby investments will be promoted at high speed, by circumventing the uses of land that local communities need, allowing the rapid concentration of land in the hands of banks, monopolistic groups, which see the beaches and mountains of our country as a fillet, to proceed to new major investment projects. Of course with the greatest courage that you can see, you may ask: “Where is the evil?” The bad thing we say to you, gentlemen, is that, in order for these investments to be made, the land must change its hands, that the land must leave the poor farmers, for example, from the popular layers, from the inhabitants of the islands and go to the banks, groups, investors. That's what you're trying to achieve, with the provisions you bring. An entire system where every possible use of land and every right to property is registered and concentrated, because the development path you are serving today wants tourist investments to extract the tourist product, and these require a concentration of the land in a handful of hands. The multi-project you have submitted brings new changes to the Mining and Quarry Code. What do the changes actually anticipate? New arrangements to deliver the country's mining wealth to investors in order to stimulate Group profitability. You follow the same course of complete delivery of mining research to investors, without even ensuring a record of mining wealth from a state structure. It's not your policy accidental. To maximize the profits of a few investors, IGM is dissolved. That is why now with the Multi-Project you are bringing even greater freedom to mining groups, to exploit the wealth that exists in this country. You have reached the point, to guarantee to large mining enterprises that within four months they will take all necessary leave, bypassing even environmental protection studies and any kind of pre-authorization. With this bill, you prove that you are kings of the king in the field and electricity, and once again show what political ass means. You who have been accusing financial speculation all the previous time as the central factor for the crisis and poverty of the people, are today, indeed, taking a brave step. Good for you! Proceed liberalisation, trade electricity one step below with the Energy Exchange. Is this lacking to address the problem of energy poverty, in which half the population lives, and the huge energy expenditures that consumed people's incomes for the vast majority of the working population? The stock exchange investment and the energy gaming are missing? Why are you doing this? Because you want to enable even more capital to be placed in the energy with even greater ease. You want banks to enter the Greek energy sector, every group that has unpaid, ponding capital without great difficulty. It turns out that the energy auctions you introduced were a germane rehearsal. Now you're bringing in a generalization of the situation. You allow large industrial groups to buy cheap electricity to shield their profits. As a result, it will be a new launch of the costs of the cost of energy paid by the employees. With the so-called 'people' in dealing with bureaucracy, you are bringing in a new licensing system. What's the direction? Make what you want, and then we can do no control. No one doubts, Mr President-in-Office, that BSE and the other investors are rubbing their hands, as the current framework for the suppressive protection is gradually poured out. The marble, however, will be paid again by the workers, populaces inhabited close to where the investments are going to go. It is provocative and, at the same time, indicative of the provision you bring to Article 128. There is talk of a typical nature of liabilities in an undertaking and of a risk calculated on the basis of its potential occurrence, forgetting the most substantial indicator. Indicator of the severity of an accident at work. What are you actually telling us? You tell us that the safety of workers, the protection of public health cannot interfere with the profits of monopolies. At the same time that you are preparing to tax out the vast majority of workers, you are promoting new tax relief for large capital. We recognize your great political courage. You're trying to convince yourself that your multi-project has positive aspects. You may, of course, also have some examples of some social groups who will also see some duplicate possible improvement. But he's misled, gentlemen, by the government. You are about to show the 2 euros on the day of the family allowance as social justice. Most importantly, however, you must understand that your attempt to separate workers is not working. You are in vain trying to show the vast majority of employees, the self-employed as privileged, to justify the attack on them. The trick, of course, is now known. Any hired and self-employed person is not yet impoverished, you are baptized and privileged and baptizing him like this, you can cut his allowances, raise his taxes, get less pension and who knows what else we will see, if we listen to your Minister of Finance who even specializes in English-speaking, unfavorable Christmas fairy tales of Disney, to convince the natives that a poor child - in here said these from this Step - may be happy and a rich boy can be miserable and unhappy. So, what kid is left to be sorry for the rest of us to help? Of course, the unhappy rich child, to stop being unhappy and not the happy poor child. And they lived well and we did better. All that says is, in fact, to question the so-called "evidence of happiness", since he first uses it to answer the right is supposed to be, again, joking, of course. In other words, as is all classic, urban political thinking, regardless of whether it is left or right, they are trying to manage it, as they say with a philosophical figure. To come back and connect it to what I was saying, you are trying to achieve something like that even more galantic surpluses. Of the ten you get, give back a scumbag, of course, some crumbs to extreme poverty, equal to throwing ashes in the eyes, while the rest goes to fuel the great capitalist profitability. The distinction you are trying to make, the social cannibalism you want to build, so that the real impoverished will put them to the lesser impoverished, that real wealth, industries, banks, shipowners will not work. It won't work, because all you promise the impoverished is that you'll make everyone else miserable. You do not promise any kind of substantial improvement in the impoverished. All you promise is even greater support, even more gains for big capital. Even your word has become wooden as you like - it is your favourite expression - for others to say, monotonously recurring, absolutely predictable, even with the same phrases, the same arguments, the same chips that remind you of advertising advice that previews you. We've all got bored of your constant appeal, which as robots you repeat for the notorious bright future of fair growth, which wherever it comes and all on the road is. You should probably change the tape. Workers have gained enough experience now to understand what you mean by the well-known tape of fair growth, that your fair growth is only growth for very few. It means profits for banks, investment opportunities for industries, new tax privileges for shipowners. And in order for all these profits to come, in order for this development to come, workers should work at low wages, people should pay unbearable taxes on the one hand and spend more and more of their income on health, education, electricity and water. With your multi-brand plan, you can prove a great deal of how much your class and every bourgeois government calculates life, happiness, health, safety of workers and people. You literally show your class teeth. You prove in practice because among you, industrial groups, banks, shipowners, their state and all their political servants and among others, that is to say, the vast majority of employees, the self-employed, the poor farmers, there is literally abyss. Because the profits of your class are based on the misery of our class. To shield the profits of a few groups, you need to take homes and land with electronic auctions, poison the environment and health, putting in wherever you want and in any way want mines, industries, warehouses. You want the Greek people to work with the wages of tolerance, with taxes that are becoming increasingly gigantic, with pensions that are slashed, leading pensioners to poverty and early death. To shield profits, you even want to remove workers' right to resist through their union with a gun to strike. With all this, you simply remind us of why you, the political staff of capital, the ruling class, cannot coexist with the vast majority. That's why you're increasingly resorting to the whip of authoritarianism when the carrot you give doesn't work. As for the political stripping in Trump, the good words of Geron Daiselblum and other corpses about the Prime Minister of SYRIZA - ANEL, your obvious promises, than they show, to Erdogan, who now have the role of lagoon and your ministers to gradually cultivate the tradition of eight Turks in Ankara, or your diplomatic rounds in the Balkans and adjacent FYROM country, which increasingly remind you that you are acting like NATO's "birds" against Russia's influence in the region, for all of which we have neither the intention nor the time to mention. We hope that we will be given this possibility next time from this Step, so that you can finally inform us what your official positions are and what exactly you have reached agreement. Because so far there has been an official silence in the tomb. Only halves, greetings and various journalistic information and leaks. All in all, of course, you confirm that you are doing the job of those who have decided to serve, grinding your hands, as the Prime Minister said a moment ago. That is why you are escalating the attack on our people and against the JRC. We are not the ones who have escaped from reality, Mr Tsipras. You have escaped from all logic, from values, from the left. And you've joined the realism, of course, of subjection to the chair of the bourgeois power. Fortunately, the JRC and the labour movement never had your realism, and that is why all rights were conquered by our working people in the past. You won't smile much longer, though. You won't get past it after all. Laugh if you think the working class of the people accepts the situation as accomplished. We're telling you, we're not going to abandon the rights conquered by blood of the working class. You will always find us in front of you, no matter how much mud you put on the fan, no matter how much slander you're striving for, no matter how much authoritarian you place, no matter how much money you pay. And we will remind you that it is 'better laughing for anyone who laughs last'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u243	Mr Nicholas, we will necessarily give Mr Michaloliakos the floor because he is present. Mr. Michalokoo, one question. Would you allow Mr Nicholas to speak on his second-guess, on behalf of the Independent Members, for four minutes? Otherwise, under the Rules of Procedure you have every right to take the floor, as you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u244	I have no problem giving up my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, I regret that the House is once again in the face of clearly defined situations. I have had the opportunity, and this weekend we have been through, to meet with a large number of citizens and to discuss the multi-brand plan, the situation in the country, on our national issues, for all. So I did my own personal golaps, which show a universal rejection of the polynomial bill. And I can assure you, in passing, that they are universally rejecting and any name of Skopje, which contains the name of Macedonia. I'm sure we know what the laughing matter is. In here talking about measures and memos, and out there talking about life. So I wonder when we will look society in the eye and when we will really listen to it. Where is the patriotic, social right and where is the popular and sensitive left to support the people's hopes and get them out of Golgotha? Do prerequisites offer hope? No, it's categorically not. He needs growth. And handcuffed growth in the economy and society will never come. That is why I cannot vote for regulations like those before us. I do not believe them, I do not support them, I do not obey them, just as I did on the previous governments of Papandreou, Papademos, Samaras, Venizelos. Mr President, today, if we want the country to come out in a few months' time on the markets and start building a new memorial history, we only need a realistic, developmental account, a roadmap for growth, jobs, competitiveness and exit from the recession. I would wholeheartedly vote for a project that would present a clear developmental footprint and which will finally move away from the logic of the eternal budgetary cut and the false reforms. All the countries of the European Union recently and the United States of America have set the main priorities for economic policy and development priorities in a five-year bill. I'm asking. Do we have anything in common? With the negative vote today, I would like to point out, among other things, that there is a need for a development plan and the need for another policy, which will now emphasise the comparative advantages of the economy. There is a recorded economic story which we cannot, however much we want, ignore. Economics come out of the crisis with consumer enhancement, with investment, public and private, with sectoral policies, with development programmes and incentives. The faster we integrate a development plan, the faster we will see the Greek economy untiring. So let everyone understand it. The Greek account, which in order to set up its finances, must be poor, is dead. Greece must be rich, and if we here do not find the way, then we are not worthy either of the people or of their history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr Nicolopoulos, and the consistency in time. The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliacos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the multi-legislative project, of the memorandum which was imposed, I would like to mention a news story that went through the top of the newspapers, disappeared from the television stations and, of course, did not deal with the House. According to the statement by the Secretary of Christoforikos in 1997 and 1998, the former Prime Minister, Mr Simitis, met fourteen times. But the "SIEMENS" case burns many in this Chamber, so a conspiracy of silence has spread and no one says anything. Often - densely in this Chamber if anyone is suing a member of the Golden Dawn, the request to waive his immunity comes in no time. And we have, in fact, broken record in this regard, so that there have been more waivers of immunity from the Members of the Golden Dawn in two, three years' time, than against the Members of all other parties for forty-four years. So, among other things, we have read recently - and the case-file will come to the House where it will have a formal procedure - in the case of 'Athens 1997'. In particular, during the days of PASOK during Simitis, it had become a world track championship in Athens and while its cost had been estimated at 5 billion drachmas, it reached 19 billion. We read that under his decision No 2313/2017, the Board of Appeal has taken an initiative requesting the referral of the Director-General of the organization - one of the thirty-eight - to acts carried out in 1998. With the same adjournment of the Athens Court of Appeals, the criminal prosecution against the rest of the accused, including the Deputy Minister of Sports of PASOK - ceases the change movement we were talking about, to remember what change - Andreas Fura. Twenty years he made this case come. In this respect, the New Democracy, which ruled from 2004 to 2009, is not innocent. But then buried in drawers was the Fura case and the other PASOK agents. Nice alliances, nice deals! In this respect, the Fura case is directly related to the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. In this Chamber we as Golden Dawn, personally, have proposed that we break - if you like - an irregularity and vote for all the Members of all the parties and the three hundred for the abolition of the law on the liability of Ministers. Nothing happened. No one's responding. And so the famous Revision of the Constitution that SYRIZA had spoken about and had made a full festive phase, doesn't even sound in a year or perhaps a little more elections. No preparations for the Revision of the Constitution and the abolition of the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. Perhaps he will know more and address Alma theatre, Mr Kimoulis, where the theatre performance "Mavrouli" is played, because he was also in the Committee on Revision of the Constitution. Maybe he could tell us a lot. We have a multi-branded today on the agenda of our lenders. In all this, a strange strike article which, if not imposed by foreign loan sharks, we would vote on. Because, indeed, what has been happening in recent decades in the country is tragic and is one of the main reasons for the destruction of our national economy. In a business where there are a thousand employees, there is a union with a hundred people, a majority of fifty people are required and the company is stopped directly. You destroyed thousands of businesses you left-wing, and SYRIZA isn't excluded from it. Together you were hand in hand - the trade unionists of the SYRIZA and the JRC in this disaster. I'm continuing with Articles 1 to 42. Land registers and mortgages. For uptake of organic posts in accordance with Article 17, no competition of the AACC shall be required. Your children again will help you, including some of them - because you refer to us many times - are also accused of felony. So there is no competition from the AACC, and this development is a proposal from the World Bank, which the government has accepted without any objection. Of course, government supervision and data ownership cannot be guaranteed by the public. Articles 73 to 99. Energy exchange. Many in this room on their phone have received calls from companies that buy electricity from PPC cheaper than costs and sell it to citizens. It's capitalism in its most wild and brutal form. And you, supposedly socialists, on this issue of energy the major for the Greek people not only do nothing, but go on selling, literally, PPC. I come to Articles 207 to 209. Auctions and protection of first residence. 'No house in the hands of a banker'. Actually, all the houses go into the hands of the bankers. The horizontal protection of the first residence ended at the end of 2014, there is still by the law Stathakis a deadline but it is also to be closed. The most important thing, however, is what Minister Eukleidis Tsakalotos said on the subject. Specifically he said: "Or we are massively launching the electronic auctions or going to recapitalise the banks in the fatigue test that will start from February, jeopardising both the completion of the program and the net exit." It is therefore a presumption that electronic auctions will begin and there is no protection of the first residence of Greek citizens. Of course, it has no objection to this and the New Democracy cannot object, because it is a cheque on creditors, a check on the memorandum which it has voted on. I will stand by Articles 214 and 215 for the luxury benefits that you are cutting them down, you even reduce PPC's luxurious invoice, and all this in a very unfortunate situation for our country, where Greece is threatened with demographic death. Cut the benefits of the threeteen and the tents when Greece literally dies. She dies, having to face a Turkey, which is demographically in explosion. It would be worth it, to read in this Chamber what the unmistakable professor Panagiotis Kondylis wrote in his book "The Theory of War". Greece at the beginning of the 20th century had a ratio of one to two with Turkey. In the 1928 census, there were six million two hundred thousand and Turkey thirteen million six hundred thousand", one by two. This proportion over time reached eight million four hundred thousand in 1961, while Turkey thirty-one million, one in four. And as we go, this ratio will be very short on one by ten. The most important thing is that the majority of the Turkish population will be young people, while in Greece we will have an ageing, literally, population. Of course those articles are not missing, from 357 to 378, which provides for the creation and authorisation of new casino companies in Crete, Mykonos and Santorini. Here, then, is the way you will save Greece. You're gonna make it Las Vegas. On the one hand they'll be favelas, they'll be slums and homeless, and on the other you'll have casinos. Because, as you know, unhappiness arises, gambling rises. I would, however, like to respond to this great lie, which was repeated here today by the Prime Minister, in a few months' time, that the end of the memorandum is coming. You asked New Democracy? For I do not see, in what he has announced, an end to the Memorandum. Because the end of the memorial to which the Prime Minister referred is air words and nothing else. Once this superfluous debt is in existence, it is not possible for there to be genuinely national independent Greece, a free national economy, but there will be a sound comitology. And how is it possible - I am referring to the New Democracy - if it governs within the next year, in the next few months, to bring about a blooming of the Greek economy? By reducing - it says - taxation and attracting investment. Here there is an obligation of the country to have a surplus of 3.5% by 2022, that is, a total of EUR 32 million. And by 2060 there is an obligation to have a primary surplus of 2%. How can you reduce taxation and achieve this primary surplus? You're not doing anything! You will continue the policy of the Memorandum. Besides, it is no coincidence that this memorandum of SYRIZA, you also voted on 14 August 2015. The Greek economy can only be bloomed with auditing and a debt complaint. With this debt, no investment comes and no growth will be made. And that can only be done by a national government, only when the Golden Dawn of the Greeks comes and has the country's things in its hands! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, has been the subject of economics. I would like to say, however, that for us, for the Golden Dawn, it is not a more important issue for the economy than a national issue. They were poor and at times the Greeks were much poorer than today, but on national issues they were inconsistent. Greeks were being dedicated in the early 20th century, when the Prime Minister's own son-in-law, Paul Melas, was leaving to shed his blood for Macedonia! Neither did they calculate the recent bankruptcy at the time nor the economic issues. As we speak of Macedonia, I would like to turn to the New Democracy, which is supposed to represent the centre-right party, which since 1974 has been defeated and ideologically and politically defeated by the Left, which, in fact, has been afflicted and said that it respects its history. We do not respect it, and on the occasion of the issue of Macedonia I will prove it. In the Middle War, International requires a decision for independent Macedonia and Thrace. [[The ending bell of the speech time of the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, do not press the bell. The previous speaker spoke thirty-five minutes. Thank you very much. What I'm going to say is only about the JRC? No, gentlemen of SYRIZA. For once there was a party, the JRC, from which you come most of the SYRIZA executives and from which came the Interior JRC in 1968. He never refused, however, and he denounced the history of the JRC. So it's your direct concern. From the Interior Century we went to the coalition and from the coalition to the SYRIZA. So it's your story of the JRC and we'll see if you can be proud of it. In 1924, the first spokesman of the JRC, George Georgiadis, who refuses the autonomous Macedonia and Thrace. Delete from the JRC, which denounces as an anti-national. Then there goes a gentleman named Chargologist Nikolaos, who accepts this unspeakable position of autonomous Macedonia and Thrace. It takes seven thousand dollars from Moscow to support the KIC - the left! - and then what does he do? He's leaving for America, stealing the money! We have after the following decision - a monument of national treason at the third extraordinary meeting of the JRC on 26 November 1924. This is your concern, gentlemen of SYRIZA, or else condemn this story. The Conference's decision was therefore to "Independence in Macedonia and Thrace. Local capitalism oppresses ethnic minorities in Macedonia and Thrace. The Greek pluralism is oppressing part of the Macedonian and Thracian people." I come to the famous history of the Left, Ioannis Kordatos, Secretary of the KKE from 1920 to 1924 and Director of "RIZOSOPASTI", who is deleted from the KEE for his opposing position towards the party's resistance to Macedonia, and writes the following article. Here's what Cordados says, which you say represents you. "The International exercised its influence and insisted on the sixth conference of the November 1924 Party to replace the central Cordatus. Since then everything has collapsed in debris. The end of irrationality was the motto of Macedonia's autonomy" - SYRIZA gentlemen who are going for a complex name - "the JRC has created this issue with this. This policy gave the party the final blow, because it was disapproved by the people, because communism in Greece appeared as an ally of Bulgarian chauvinism." That's what Cordatos, your Cordatos, gentlemen of SYRIZA and KKE say. And, of course, we come to the times of the coup d'état, where your party - and it also represents you gentlemen of SYRIZA - made decisions - of treason with the main one of this famous PP, where he said that in northern Greece, the Slobomacedonian people gave it all for the struggle and fought heroicly and self-sacrificingly and that the Macedonian people will find their full restoration. That's what the JRC said at the time. This is what SYRIZA will do, accepting a complex name. Hands off Macedonia! Your plans won't pass! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I won't finish here. It was then the conference of the so-called Slavumacedonians, which is a pointless term, because both Slavos and Macedonian can't be. Or Macedonian, you'll be Slavos. A conference was held in Vitsi, where the famous Karagiorgis spoke and among other things said: "Turkish beans, Serbs and Greek compatriots, captains, Pavlomies and Captain Bardais, who shook the nest in the neck of the Macedonian people". That's who you are! You blame Paul Mella for being a criminal! Did you ever deny it? Did you report it? Of course not! [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a big deal of Macedonia. A New Democracy MEP, Mr Kurchos, came out today and said that we were in agreement with SYRIZA. Who? We are! Here for your minutes the first card of our newspaper twenty-five years ago, on 10 January 1993: 'No compromise for our Macedonia'. We talked about it then and now. But you all left-wings were absent from the national rallys and said fascists about Macedonia. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Your plans won't pass. Golden Dawn will give the fight against everyone if they have to. Every complex name in any geographical form - erga omnes, without erga omnes, we do not care - the name Macedonia will not go to the Skopje. The Greek people will react. You should know that. Your plans won't pass. Hands off Macedonia!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Mavrosh has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Today is the last day of discussion and vote on the multi-project with the prerequisites or otherwise 'the multi-project of the chameleon'. You know the chameleon is that sympathetic animal, which, depending on the environment, changes that appearance as well. So SYRIZA changes appearance, rhetoric and attitude depending on the environment. If he is in the opposition environment, as three years ago, he disapproves by shouting. If he's in government's environment, he's praised for applauding. The policy of double books. On the left, write everything you say to get power and on the right what you do to stay in power. Of course, by four hundred articles, we cannot exhaust our criticism of prototype. Allow me, then, to address a few issues in my dentext, and I shall start with Article 15, the hasty legalization made for the Land register, mortgages and the new body being set up. This reform, of course, needs and is late, so that we do not acquit to the older people, but, as you are going through, such an important reform without consultation, fermentation and dialogue create side effects. If it is important to legislate “with the gun to the head” in four days, then something is wrong, unless you legislate just for the check box with the corresponding prerequisite in the evaluation, without much interest in the application, which will trouble us all. For example, let us look at one of the many land registers in Article 15 set up by the property offices of the new organisation. At the Attica Land Office you put branches in Acharnes, Nea Ionia, Elefsina, Marathona and Maroussi and Kifisia. In other words, you put two adjacent municipalities, Maroussi and Kifisia and leave out the entire South Attica, which is the Lavrio which also served the islands. Probably this branch dispersion as has been done hastyly and in the leg, you need to revise it in the future. With your amendment to the Public Revenue Tax, an auction by the State is allowed even for EUR 500 from 1 May 2018. We will have the 'Electronic Initiative'. But are these the strategic malpractices you're chasing? The 500 euros? Should we have done it in reverse? You should, in other words, put corresponding deadlines and procedures for public debt to the public or, at least, consider how we will finally be able to make them operational. That would be a real reform and not owe you the state and you can do nothing while you have to be disobedient to the demands of the state. I am still waiting to see here, when there will be the famous set-aside of EVA, which free professionals pay contributions on the basis of incomes still in 2015, and you are all saying that there will be a set-aside, and it is never done. I'm also gonna hang up with the casinos. A legislative improvement has come, which says this unlikely in Article 375. In the event of a casino operation interrupting for any reason, the Minister of Finance may appoint a temporary command solely for the purpose of continuing to operate until the licence is issued to a new concessionaire, without mentioning anything for time, nothing for dates, nothing for working capital. So, it's just nicely defined an infinite temporary command. And since we talked about casinos, now they're going to be called EKT, casino business. Obviously the three new casinos in Crete, Mykonos and Santorini are to be subject to the same status and casino in Greek. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want a minute, Mr President, and I'll close. So from your favorite "game economy" we go to " casino law". Yes, I have a suggestion. Make a legal improvement so that the groupers in the new casinos spin the roulette not right-handed but left-handed. I understand that it's one of the steps back that you need to take from your principles and declarations to make the jump you dream ahead. The truth, however, is that you have made so many steps behind your popular proclamations that you are at risk of going after the jump not even going to the digging. But eating its faces, even though populism and demagogy, are not necessarily bad for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u252	Mrs Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. What's pictured today? First of all, as far as the bill is concerned, for the first time there is a different mix without additional budgetary measures. The bill marks the closure of the second assessment, the exit from the memos. Will it be a typical or a substantial exit? I think we should take care of that. We need desperately sustainable lending, we need freedom of choice, and SYRIZA chooses a lasting and stable recovery to achieve these goals. There are very important successes in both finances and not just, which in fact show the way that SYRIZA follows. Many colleagues have referred to the historically low interest rates on loans. They referred to the reduction of unemployment, the biggest in the European Union. We got 27%. Now there's a 20%. It is a very high degree of unemployment, of course. Incentives are given for investment. It is important here to say that we need to talk about domestic investments and not just investment from abroad. It is very important that we talk about growth, about linking the manufacturing sector to production. It is very important that by practical steps, by simplifying licensing, we are trying to strengthen these investments. It is important to talk about productive reconstruction. Whatever we say, I'll say we're back. We have a lot of steps to take in this. We choose support for vulnerable groups by finding financial tools, extending benefits, but also by changing its architecture of how family benefits are given. We choose to strengthen public health with a lot of bills. For health, I would say that here too, for the first time the debate on medicines is shifting from cost to therapeutic value, to the comparative benefit of treatment. Of course, a number of tests and criteria for medicines are being established. We choose to modernise public administration. Here we have seen many speakers from Opposition cut off for contractors when hostage was their main policy. Here we have to say that, slowly, with a plan, rationally, we consider that the public sector should be corrected, that there should be recruitment on criteria, with transparency in order to ensure that citizens are efficient and serviceable. What, however, is happening throughout this whole debate, where a great deal has been said about a very big bill? Opposition plays its change. They were old-fashioned, with what happens in the first-home auctions. Two important members of the New Democracy did not know or did that they did not know what is happening today and they were ignoring the basics. But what really happens in Opposition? The look of counterpopulation is on the next day. The elections don't come out, there is declared, there are fast and sustainable growth rates, the black on the channels that you anticipated it became clear and the market showed the way. The free is slowly dying. What's the next day? The 2019 elections, where the Civic Opposition - whatever it says - will lose them and substantially what they are interested in, are which parties will enter the next House, which parties are the ones that will build the new right. The plea alleges that SYRIZA should be scrambled. Because if SYRIZA succeeds, there is no reason to exist and perhaps, of course, additional pan-European changes are taking place. That is why the attacks on SYRIZA will be intensified, so personalised attacks will increase, if none of SYRIZA hides or avoids his responsibilities. There is a serious charge that is being launched from everywhere, which wants a serious answer. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I request your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. Thank you. Everyone says SYRIZA is going through measures that others could not do and stick to the retrieval of social democracies. We heard one of the JRC's colleagues telling us that there was a strategy that was practically no other way. Who said that? It was a political choice that SYRIZA made in the summer of 2015 based on the correlations. If it is a single strategy - and this is what the Communist Party of Greece says - we should ask ourselves about the compromises and arguments that the Communist Party of Greece had to give back. I'm going to the heaviest issues, because there's been a talk of strategy. Is there a risk of accession to social democracy? There is! Because assimilation is always the easiest scenario and victory is the hardest scenario. But as long as we do not go unreservedly into social democracy and as long as the Communist Party of Greece is basically praised as consistent, the concept of the Left will fade away. SYRIZA chooses to enter the real line of the relationships, knowing that the situation has changed in the country, the world has changed, the range of the Left, the demands and expectations. And it is not afraid that SYRIZA will admit that beyond the very important struggles, the Left has often found itself unprepared, often unsuspected, unconscious in unprecedented and complex developments and demands. She knows well that there can only be with her movement. We want something else today. We do not just want complaints, we do not just want ideological firmness. In a spirit of time we have chosen to manage the problems, to transform the state with a proposal that is clear, coherent, hopeful, grounded to stop the disaster. SYRIZA is central to the interventions and efforts of the Left, therefore also of its perspective. And only SYRIZA can take over this project, that is to say, to get the country out of the memorials and the comitology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor, and then the President of the Officer's Vice-President Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u255	I remember what moments I lived for months all over for television licences, where it was said that the Secretariat-General had no right to make the tender, the competition was cancelled and said. I remember what I was listening to, that is, we're trying to feast, and so on. Seven licences were issued and we saw that there is only one offer for six. And I kept listening for eighteen, for fifteen, "Why don't you let all the flowers bloom" etc. Keep this, because I believe that Nikos Pappas has been vindicated by state, at least in this matter. Two days ago short-term, quarterly bonds were covered four and a half times. The interest rate was 0.99%, while a while ago it was 1.7%. The two-year bonds - and I mention them because there is again a risk, again, of overstatement - which was 8% a year ago, came to 1.44%, under the two-year bonds of the United States. What does that mean? That we became a better economy? No, to God! We don't say such things. What does it mean? Doesn't it show anything? And I'm not going to go to the ten years for which I'm going to remind you again here - by stealing what Mr Stathakis said - that Portugal, eight months before it came out on the market, had 7% in the ten years. We, seven months before we go to the markets, have it at 3.71%. Do we throw all this away? I want to read self-deluding pieces of house articles and literature, which were not only strictly with us, but were very hard with us. If I remind you what the German news agency said, you'll see that he said incredible things. It is the same agency that just six days ago said: "This government will not only get Greece out of the market, will work positively for the whole of the European Union. It's the German news agency. DEUTSCHE WELLE says, "FINANCIAL TIMES" themselves, "REUTERS" themselves, "BLOOMBERG" themselves. And what do we hear from morning to night? A lot of crazy things! I don't want to ruin the atmosphere, because it's just a little time. I want, by finishing, to remind you of four numbers. They have spoken so many colleagues that it makes no sense. I would like to refer to a fact that is within the multi-brand plan and is one of the many positive things Eukleidis Tsakalots has mentioned: After the third extension of the Voluntary Disclosure Programme, it is permanently regulated in the Multi-Project. And here I would like to remind you: some people voluntarily declared EUR 9.5 billion. Doesn't that say anything? A million two hundred thousand LNG were searched. Does that even say anything? Seven hundred and eleven million were attested. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. While in April there were only seventy thousand who willingly went, now there were four hundred sixty thousand. How much did they get into the funds? 220 million euros went in. I'm done. And if the Council of State hadn't made anything - we respect the decision, but we criticise it - the famous five-year decision that, beyond five years, nothing would have been more. I have nothing more to say. I say the tactics of the exaggeration, the blind opposition and questioning everything doesn't lead you anywhere. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-five students and students and two teachers from the 20th High School of Patras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time we enter the country's fourth year of government by SYRIZA - ANEL. Three painful years have passed, three lost years that will have serious consequences for the future. In August 2018, Minister, we will find ourselves at best where we would have arrived in 2015 if Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos had not come to the point. Playing, as usual, with words and politics with lies, the government and Mr. Tsipras spoke today about a clear exit. Every day, however, someone - yesterday was Mr Visser - explaining how there is no clear exit, something that your Minister even admitted - I do not see him here in the cabinets - Mr Skourletis admitting that we are not ending in August and that there will also be surveillance. That is the truth, no matter how much you want to make fun of citizens once again. The truth is that you have already promised the future of the country for at least five years, with pension cuts, tax-free cuts and high primary surpluses which choke the real economy. If you are still in power in the summer of 2018 - something that I understand is self-evident for you and your government partner - it is obvious that you will also take on new obligations, heavy obligations, with an alibi of debt relief, which I recall has been a acquis since 2012, but it has never been implemented, because you have put the country into this new adventure, you have been part of its credibility. In the meantime, growth, jobs, incomes, opportunities and, of course, inequalities have grown. In your day the poor became poorer and unfortunately became more, while those trying for something better feel every day and more hunted. You cause a great deal of damage to the economy every day. And all of this is done while you are legislating today even provisions with which you yourself admit to disagreement. Before you Greece was known for the intransigent word "historic". Now you have made it worldwide known for the word 'assouba'. Everyone now understands that "assomba" means a 180-degree cynical turn, which you do to stay in power. You did the lie business and raised cynicism in art. Even the irrevocable Mr Zouraris - in fact, I have not yet understood whether he has resigned, if his resignation has been accepted, but suppose he has finally resigned - he had to vacate against football teams to leave the government. When he said, "It's okay to lose two, three islands" or when he insulted the students in an unacceptable way, that didn't bother you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The problem is not Mr. Zuraris and Mr. Zuraris. The problem is the one who appointed him and the one who tolerated him. Mr Zuraris is ultimately nothing but the mirror of this government, a government which is dangerous, unbearable and degrading. If you were elementaryly consistent with your commitments, there was one way and there is still: the honest path of resignation. This is the honest path to politics. That way, however, you don't know him. You prefer to do something even more degrading for you and unfortunately more detrimental for the country: you say that you disagree with what you are asking for, but yet you are all voting for it once more so that you do not lose the chair and at the same time you do not negotiate anything at all. "Our life has become easier with Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsakalotos," said Mr. Diaselblum. Do you really, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL Members, do you have this report? You who were talking about volunteers, about germans, do you feel any shame in hearing that you are the easiest government our lenders met? But you know what's going on? The more you stay the more you'll be asked for. Even the right things you are asked to do, because you do not believe them, as is the case with the privatisations, which you have been fighting and which you have had to accept, but ultimately not only do you not implement them, but you are undermining them, because you do not believe them, because you do not want them, as you cannot implement real structural changes. And of course, you cannot strengthen entrepreneurship or attract investment. He told you that, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Visier. You've put the economy in suffocation. You strangle liquidity because of the expanded internal posture of payments. And it is for what Greece stayed and in 2017 at a rate of growth anemic, half of the initial estimates. I have heard Mr Tsipras speak today about great growth, and I would like, Mr Tsakalote, once again - because it seems that in this Chamber we must constantly repeat ourselves to understand what is what we are saying - to present this diagram, which shows the true return of the Greek economy to the original forecasts compared with all the other European countries. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned diagram, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All European countries, Mr Minister, have had a growth rate greater than expected. What is the only country that has a growth rate much smaller than the one predicted? Greece. Are these the extraordinary growth rates, Mr. Chakalote? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thus, not just anemic, but mainly much lower than the country's real potential. You're overtaxing, and you're poor. That's what you're doing. In your days you have managed one in two Greeks to owe the state. Our rapporteur, Mr Dimas, said that 25% of the private debt was created on your own days and the first time the Greeks' debts to tax amounted to more than 100 billion. Confiscations of property have been multiplied. Mass auctions are already under way. And you do these things, when you went up to power, talking about "brokenness" and shouting "no house in the hands of a banker". In fact, I have not heard Mr Tsipras make any reference today to the auction speech and you tell us even today that you are protecting the first home, when you yourself have confessed that the current system provides less protection for borrowers than the previous government of New Democracy had done. Whatever you're lying about, everyone knows that today you're making first home auctions and doing a show with bankers at the same time as you're launching auctions and public debts - it's the Tsipras - Tsakalotou auctions - at the same time that the tax has imposed forced collection measures on more than a million of our fellow citizens. Only in November 2017 were those measures imposed on twenty-one thousand debtors. They're getting - be careful! - around a thousand seizures each working day, and there are seven hundred and fifty thousand debtors still at risk of confiscation, and this figure continues to grow, darkening the prospects of society. Nevertheless, you continue unsatisfactory, your disastrous policy. We have told you in the budget debate too. Instead of reducing taxes, you imposed 2 billion extra measures in 2018. Of these, 900 million are the new taxes. Most of the revenue even comes from indirect taxes which disproportionately affect our weakest fellow citizens. You decide new cuts in the CRP and in the heating allowance. You impose measures that reduce the public's available income even further. And all of this while you are causing huge distortions in the real economy, eventually encouraging undeclared earnings, but also black work, because that is where they end up by wanting and not by the citizens to survive. They have no other options and they are, unfortunately, increasingly more and more those who are forced to work for 360 euros or even less. All of this, while you are fascinating about reducing the unemployment rate, an indicator which is falling with hunger wages and, of course, with the mass exit of hundreds of thousands of young people abroad. And it's really sad that Mr. Tsipras once again said great lies. In his day, Mr Tsipras told us, the course of part-time work has been reversed. But because God loves the thief, he also loves the housekeeper, today, Ministers, came out of the elements of the "ERGANI". In 2014 the recruitments were divided between part-time and full-time. In 2017 you achieved the new recruitment of 55% to be part-time and, with growth in December, the figure reached 57%. In fact, Mr Ministers, you have reversed the trend, but in the very opposite direction to what the Prime Minister claimed. I table the two relevant tables in the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same lies the Prime Minister told us about team redundancies. Mr. Tsipras told us that he prevented them, supposedly. In his imagination, he might have prevented them. Only in Article 17 of Law 4472, Minister, in the fourth Memorandum, you release collective redundancies. We talked about this. I cite the relevant article. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The workers and the only ones who pretend to be unconscious are you. So lies about part-time work, lies about collective redundancies today. And with lies you may deceive once again your MPs, who are obviously completely willing to be deceived, but the Greeks and Greeks, the Ministers and Members of the SYRIZA and the ANEL, forget them. Because all the qualitative indicators show today a country trapped in a gradual precipitation that drives away its best inspiring potential. Mr. Tsipras made a reference to reforms. He forgot to tell us that according to the relevant OECD study, the only country in which the reforms were delayed by 30% was Greece in 2015-2016. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know, Mr Tsakalotes, because you like the words and you are an English-language and educated man, I will remind you of a conversation that was said by an important American politician, who said that 'you have the right to your opinion, but you do not have the right to your data, to the facts'. That's data. They're not questioned. They're not in dispute. Stop at last twisting them in this punctual way. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So your policy continues to drive away rather than bring investment. It has now been shown that you prefer to share poverty, while citizens are calling for growth and prosperity. The benefits alone aren't enough. What citizens need is for them to be able to regain control of their lives. Because Greeks deserve better, better than your deceit and deceit, and certainly better than lies and half truths. Ladies and gentlemen, 2018 begins with great risks and great challenges for the country, because the completion of the third programme follows an informal, fourth country surveillance memorandum by 2022. The Congress voted for it last spring in the context of the completion of the second evaluation. Here it is worth reminding me, as Mr Tsipras made a historic retrogression, what Mr Tsipras himself said at the conclusion of the first assessment. Note, I read: "We took the order to implement an agreement...", that was the mandate you took, supposedly, in the September elections in 2015, "... which provided for a mild fiscal adjustment", with 14 billion measures, "... of the order of 3% of GDP, by 2018". That's what Mr. Tsipras said at the end of the first evaluation. I'm putting these in the Minutes as well for there to be. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What Mr Tsipras didn't tell us is what happened between the first and the second evaluations and 5.2 billion measures were added for 2019 and 2020 after the completion of the third evaluation, the fourth memorandum that your signature brings. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because this was done in order to close the second assessment: by working, you charged the country with 5 billion additional measures. This is the tragic irony, too. You appeared in the political scene as antimony and you have a ability to constantly produce new memoirs. However, while this informal new memorandum imposes specific new measures - to remind the Greek citizens once again of them: reductions in pensions up to 18% and reductions in duty from 1-1-2020, if not requested earlier - this informal, fourth memorandum does not guarantee additional funding. This means that since August 2018 the country should be borrowed from markets at reasonable interest rates. And in order to achieve this, the country needs a bold programme, a decisive plan of change and reforms, because only in this way will market confidence be recovered and low-cost funding ensured. However, such a policy, which is precisely the policy described in the New Democracy plan, you are not in a position to implement it. You don't want her. You don't believe her. You cannot implement it. And so today you are still keeping the country back, even though you have a very important advantage. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Mr. Tsipras did some matching, in relation to what is happening today, and compared to what was happening in 2014 and 2013. So do a controversy, Mr Ministers, what happened in just 2014, when you as furious then threatened investors and set a fire on the economic climate, destroying the country's international image. Is that what we do today, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? We and today call on investors to come to invest in our country. We invite them to see, behind the incoherence and blurredness of the current government, the real prospects of Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because the New Democracy is politically responsible, reliable and guarantees the country's long-term positive prospects. In other words, we do not build our political future on the ruins of the country. And investors know very well that sooner or later you'll leave power, because you're saying other things, but you're doing more, without embarrassment, without remorse, without remorse, without any conscious control, for the chair, everything for the chair. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this, which I have just described, is regrettablely illustrated by the multi-project we are debating today. I'm starting with family allowances. And I would remind you that it was the New Democracy government that first increased the budget for family allowances by EUR 250 million and first paid an allowance from the first child on the basis of income criteria, but at the same time we strengthened, with a special allowance, the three-tier and multi-text families. In other words, we have implemented a coherent family support policy from the first child. What are you doing? Take a first right step and rightly give families benefits for the first and second children. At the same time, however, you are cutting down benefits for third parties and multiples. They are - and Mrs Fotou told us - fewer, which is why they are not counting for you. They belong to the majority of them in the middle class, which you have ruthlessly targeted, because they are not part of your electoral client. So, what are you doing? You get a total of 48,000 euros, that's what we're talking about, sixty-seven thousand threescore families, while you celebrate the surplus of 2017. What does that mean in practice? I repeat numbers, which have already been heard in this Chamber, that are to be fully consolidated. Three-way family with an annual income of EUR 23,000 - not even Zabluta - has received an allowance of EUR 1,980 to date. With your law he will receive EUR 1.344, that is, he loses 1/3 of his allowance. Family with four children and an annual income of 26,000 euros received 2,640 euros. Today, it will take 2,016 euros, i.e. it loses 1/4 of its allowance. And I suppose that's what they keep saying to Maximus: 'It was just and it was done.' I will tell you what it is: it is unfair and you have done so! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have strongly criticised the anti-development and unfair policy of overcrowding. But once you've followed her, someone would expect you to have put some basic priorities in their share. Really, the demographic problem and the multitude families aren't on the list of your priorities at all? They don't deserve - be careful, that's why we're talking about 4% of the surplus. Of course, in order to show the size of your inconvenience, I will submit two documents to the Minutes of the House, which our rapporteur has pointed out, which are of interest to them. Mr. Tsipras, at a meeting with the Bureau of the Hellenic Supreme Confederacy - when, notice when? - four days before the January elections, on January 16, 2015, he said: "SYRIZA has the political will, in the context of his programme to tackle the humanitarian crisis, gradually restore the injustices and losses of the incomes and rights of the multiple families involved in the years of the memorandum". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, I repeat the fine question tabled by Mr Petrakos, Mr Soldier, who is no longer with us - and the third who is? - and Mr Tsipras, with whom they said: 'Emergence and condemnation of the poverty of the three-tier and tenacious families by the government'. Another monument of your lie and your disrespect and the deception of the Greek people that took place in the January 2015 elections. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the Minutes the above question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We, Mr President-in-Office, shall vote on Rule 214, subject to one condition: Change the criteria to ensure that no one has lost their allowance so far. I invite you to do this even now, not in a few months, as Mr Tsipras said. Take 48 million of the money you've spent and redistribute to the threeteens and the multiples. If you don't, we're committed to doing it as the next government! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to the issue of strikes, where Mr Tsipras defended the argument that all the arrangements he brings are for the benefit of the workers. If that is the case, I do not understand why we have so many workers who protest on the street and why there is this reaction from the Communist Party of Greece. But you'll find these between you two. Our position is absolutely clear. We want the strikes to be decided by the people and not by the few. That is why we are proposing, for large businesses, to hold an electronic vote on the declaration of strike, and yes, to take the decision with 50% plus 1% of the employees, so that all workers can participate in the decision without any issues of quorum. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is in the interests of the labour unions as well, because, you see, we do not understand the modern world through ideological bumpers, and above all we do not mock. People are changing rapidly, no matter what you're pretending you don't understand. The worker only has to win if his business goes well and has to lose if his business eventually fails. And, of course, everyone in the world recognises that the state can no longer be an entrepreneur. The private sector is the entrepreneur and the role of the state is to support entrepreneurship, not to suck the trouble of every entrepreneur, every free worker. The unbelievable, however, is interesting, I have not heard Mr Tsipras make any mention of this either - is that in the bill there is indeed a provision that favours entrepreneurship, but even that is in the wrong direction. Do you know who this is? The article you brought about casinos and gambling. That's why Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let's go see what you're doing with this article. After you have provokedly left, Minister, unregulated online gambling to serve business interests that you allow to tax provocatively, you now come to give new casino licenses without consulting local communities. But that's not the worst. Hidden in the multi-project, Article 378, paragraph 26, if I am not mistaken, there is a provision of shame. What does this provision say, ladies and gentlemen, to SYRIZA and ANEL Members? This provision allows casinos themselves to give credit, i.e. a loan of up to EUR 50,000 to players, to continue to play! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you know them? I have one question, do you know what you're voting on, do you know it or do you hear it from me for the first time? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In Greece today, Mr Stathakis, who you are laughing at, no one can get a loan and all you do is give loans to casino players! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u258	Not until over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u259	I drive legally to the conclusion that from the red of your Left there was only the red of the roulette, which, obviously, Minister Kammenos knows well! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Really, where's Mr. Kammenos? Not you, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos. Mr. Kammenos where is he today? Is he gonna show up at all in the conversation? [[Noise in the Chamber]] In an exercise, probably, yes, of readiness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u260	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u261	We're not done yet. But that's not all you're doing. In the same article you do something just as challenging. Reduce - look out! - the tax on casinos, while you increase it consciously to all Greek citizens. Two taxes have been reduced over your days. The TV channel tax, and now the casino tax! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All Greeks draw their conclusions. You're the ones who're supposed to fight the complication! Good for you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Otherwise, from a bill like the one we are discussing today, no provisions could of course be missing from it, from which point of view your plan again appears to be a tool for the exercise of your power. And I am referring to this new ILO, which you are legislating on today. We have made a great deal of effort - to identify you to some extent too - to create the Independent Public Revenue Authority, so that it is precisely de-policy, so that it is not the subject of political intervention. With so much trouble, Mr. Ministers, why don't you support her? Why are you undermining it by creating another parallel audit body, which is mentioned - take care - directly to the Minister? Is it because the AIA is independent and uncontrolled? So why do we need a new service, which will be referred directly to the Minister? In order to gain a longer hand in potential economic and political blackmails? What serious businessman will come to invest in our country if he can be found from one moment to another by party-oriented audit authorities? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government is talking about a clean exit and it is accompanied, as we have seen, by many dirty provisions. Mr Tsipras told us today that in August the commission is ending and that the country is recovering its financial autonomy. He also said - he told the Ministerial Council - that the third assessment is closing without new measures, as he said, causing the anger of society to be cut, the anger of the military and police officers who see their wages falling, the anger of the islanders who see VAT growing, the anger of the inhabitants of mountainous areas who see the heating allowance being cut off, the anger of the low pensioners who see the CSCE cut down, the anger of the free professionals who see the injustices not to be corrected, and thus continue to pay increased contributions and, of course, the anger of our fellow citizens, who are in danger of losing their homes from mass auctions. So I ask you: do you think you can make fun of the world for a long time? Do you think citizens don't understand? Do you think they believe you when you talk about a clean exit from the memos? Society knows that you have already voted unnecessarily for 2019 and 2020. He knows that pensions will be reduced further and taxfree will be reduced. He knows that with you better days he can't wait. He knows you no longer have anything to offer to the place. He knows that the sooner you leave, the better it will be for the place and for the Greek citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, every minute you live in power you put the country in new and greater dangers. Unfortunately, we see it in the handling of all the issues, including foreign policy issues, whether we are talking about immigration or about Greek-Turkish relations. Unfortunately, we also see it in Skopje. You're a government of operettas, that others say one another and often the same person says other things in the morning and others say something at night. That is why the Greek people do not trust you in dealing with such a serious national issue as the question of the name of the neighbouring country. Besides, he well remembers your performance in any kind of negotiation. You called it "superior" and I wonder what it is that made Mr. Tsipras again today still speaks about 2015. What makes him persistently return to the crime scene? We all know the tragic consequences of your negotiation. We're still paying them. You have, in fact, chosen, on the issue of Skopje the path of secret diplomacy, a choice that exacerbates your sense of insecurity. The New Democracy was, is, is and will remain responsible and patriotic. And on the issue of Skopje, I want to be quite clear once again. The country has a national line, as carved in 2008 in Bucharest by the Karamanlis government. I would like to remind you that, in the face of many pressures, we have defended our national interests. The minimum - I repeat, the minimum - that the current government can do is to defend the acquis of Bucharest as a whole, because it is not just a name issue. No fragmentary solution cannot be accepted which does not address the issue in its entirety. And I am referring not only to the scope of application of the solution, to what we call 'erga omnes', but above all to the unacceptable statements of perversion of our northern neighbours, which cause the patriotic feelings of all Greeks and not just Macedonians, as they are blatantly causing and any questioning of Macedonia's Greekity. It is only necessary for someone to walk from Vergina to Pella to find out the truth. I do not hide to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I fully justify the Greek people who have no confidence in this government. I don't trust you to deal with this critical issue either. Because your only concern is to use it for party benefit, that is to say, to turn an important foreign policy issue into an internal confrontation rather than to defend the interests of our country. Many people told me on a recent tour I had in Pella and Pierria "But they have neither sacred nor loyal". In support of this, you decided with leaks to devour the Church of Greece, which did nothing but express its opinion... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...and then send the next day of repentance, in flawless, I must add Christian language. It was very interesting that the Prime Minister used the letter to the Archbishop. Look, you can't hide who you really are. Because half of you, including the Finance and Education Ministers, have never had any difficulty in recognising Skopje under their constitutional name! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And yes, Mr Chakalote, I am talking about you and Mr Gavroglou. I present the relevant passage from a letter, which you signed in 2008, to which you refer without any difficulty to the Republic of Macedonia. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, stop implying that anyone who has an increased sensitivity to this issue is far-reaching. Do not play with the sensitivities of the Greek people. Indeed, the current situation could be favourable to resolving the issue. Today, there seems to be a turn in Skopje to our national line. This is a good thing, since, of course, the new Skopje government shows that it respects the Greek people's sensitivities towards our history and that it has the potential to impose a mutually acceptable solution within it. Unfortunately, however, in Greece, we have a government that has weakened the country and proves unable to negotiate reliably. That is why Mr Tsipras must inform the National Representation and the Greek people of all the data. What exactly are you talking about, gentlemen of the government? What are you negotiating in hiding? Of course - I will repeat this once again - it is a basic prerequisite for any debate to be taken into account in the formulation of unresolved, unresolved and unregulated - I repeat, unregulated! - a government position on this issue. All of this, while we are watching - take note - Mr Kammenos, Mr Kammenos absent - not you, Mr Dimitris Kammenos - this morning to state his confidence in Mr Kotzias at noon to ask for a referendum and at night for himself to be emptyed! These aren't serious things. You're a scorpion government, where everyone serves personal strategies. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, you'll all leave together. We will not allow you, however, before that happens to do any more damage to the country. I should like to close, ladies and gentlemen, with this comment: it is clear for a long time now that the current government cannot get Greece out of the crisis, and that is absolutely possible. It is also clear that the current government cannot handle the major geopolitical challenges for the benefit of the country, while the general context is positive. It is clear that the current government seeks to become a regime, by blackmailing persons and situations, by singing the state, by setting up its own parastate and by trying to control the media. All this is done to serve the selfishness of the stay of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos to power at any price for society, for our Republic, for our country. We won't allow it. We are the great democratic party with a responsible presence in the critical moments of Greek history. We're here to unite the Greeks. We're here to give solutions. We're here to show the way for the country to go to the future that she deserves without anyone staying behind. We deserve it, and we can do better. This is what all Greek women and all Greeks feel today. I will not stop, I will not get tired of saying it until you leave and do it, together with the Greek majority of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how it operates, forty-five students and students and three teachers from the 20th Gymnasium of Patras (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirteen students and students and two teachers from the University of New York. The House welcomes them. Please have the floor, Mr Georgios Stathakis, the Minister for the Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u263	As if it did not last one day since 2015 and after the elections the same pattern is repeated. We return to formalities before 2015. They are thinking directly about 'the destructive government', while economic sizes say other things. The most important thing, however, is the fundamental question: is the 2015-2018 programme, which we have put to the crisis of the Greek people, completed or not completed? Is he coming out or not? That is a fundamental question. You may tell us that this programme for a number of reasons did not come out. "You have not succeeded, you have not progressed, you are irrelevant, you are incompetent, you are ideological." We entered 2018 and the question remains. Is it possible what we told the Greek people that it is a programme more modest than in the past, which is possible and will finally get us out of the crisis? That is the question we have answered. If, in July, Mr. Tsakalotos comes out of the markets at 2.9% of the 10-year bond interest rate, what are you going to say? For memos until 2065? Four memorial? For eighty two memos below? I think there must be a limit to the way someone accepts. The second issue. We cannot resort to a policy of noise and a gray policy. Is the first residence protected or not protected? I'm rescheduling the law in the Minutes. That's the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u264	Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u265	Read him!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u266	Again?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u267	I have an interpretative note, as soon as I get inquiries. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As far as the auctions are concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u268	Please don't bother.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u269	Accept it. You were also challenged by the Minister of Justice. Bring us a case of first residence that has not been protected under the law in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u270	Ask the Army and the Lafazani they're watching!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u271	Please. Auctions. How many auctions were made in 2011? Fifty-two thousand. How many auctions were made in 2012? Twenty-nine thousand. How many auctions were made in 2013 and 2014? Eighteen and sixteen thousand. Each year, in the years of your administration, they were made from fifteen to twenty - five thousand auctions with full protection of the first home against Hatzidakis. The criteria are the same. We haven't reduced them. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u272	You changed the law and you lied to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u273	No, no, I'm not lying. The income criterion was 36,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u274	You're welcome. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u275	You've accepted yourself that you've been down from 90 to 60.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Hatzidakis, please. We have been talking about these issues for a week.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u277	The same criteria we used. So we're bypassing this. So there's an auction going on? In 2015, 2016 and 2017, as you know, due to successive strikes by lawyers, notaries were auctions. The banks relaunched the auctions, which have started and are concerned with ordinary auctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u278	But now we have more!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u279	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u280	You're welcome. Leave the creative dialogue to listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u281	He's asking questions. That's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u282	I put it directly: there will be procedures that are common, private, private, business real estate - that is, the rule - very expensive first home of millions. That's what the banks have done, if that's what you call it. I don't know why you need to protect the first two million. You might want to protect her. We are not going to protect her and finance the banks to protect this. Therefore the idea that auctions are a sudden, sudden situation, which has come from heaven, is not the case. I repeat. I am pleased that in the end you have accepted that the first residence is fully protected up to 31-12-2018 and, from there on, you are resigning - I think - Mr Theocharopoulos - and you are asking us what we are going to do next. We have time until then. Stay quiet. The first residence will not be left unprotected. As far as the public is concerned, I am amazed to hear that the public will auction the first home. He's never done it! Get us a case. Eight auctions made the public - the figures are made by Mrs Papanatsiou - which relate to high-value professional real estate. Let's not go any further. And that's where we're waiting for a case. I would remind you that the innovations of our law in relation to Katseli law are that we have also put the debts to the public sector, we have also placed the debts to the insurance institutions, that we have recognised the traders who have completed their commercial status, that they can protect the first residence, that we have put the necessary adjustment on the basis of commercial value and not the objective to pay less the borrowers, we have placed the free professionals who did not exist in the law and so on. We've set up a series of measures. So we have a full and universal protection of the first residence, with the exception of traders, who were never under the protection law, because they fall under commercial law. We are going to the second section, which also has to do with inaccurateness, which is good to clarify. In this bill one cannot say, for example, that " casinos are allowed from now on to lend up to EUR 50,000, they are allowed to lend over EUR 50,000", implying things. Mr Chakalotos explained this three times that it is only a matter of players of a very high range, and it is not about what is implied throughout this whole debate. So with this I would like to stress once again that we must end the inaccuracies and attempt to create an artificial image. I'm going to stay a little on investment, because that's a key issue. A qualified investment party is the New Democracy. So I ask you: I am a foreign investor and I come in 2014 to Greece and ask you: "Where can I make a hotel?" You answer me: "You know, we don't have a log, we don't have any belts, we don't have Planning, we don't have a spatial planning, we don't have one, the other. What do you think? But come to me, I'll find something." Does this seem like a country attracting investment? In the last two years we have, we don't know whether it's forest or not or property. Go to the mortgage room. Could be from the Ottoman Empire something, I don't know what. This is the image of the pro-investing New Democracy, which is defended by fingernails and teeth, and we are the 'against investment'. I would remind you of the following, which I have asked you many times to tell us where you are against: Forest maps were at 1%, we made them 37% in nine months. We'll demarcate the beaches. We are voting for the register today, a bill of incision, because for two hundred years we do not have a register. Now we're building a single body. The conditions for spatial planning and urban planning have been set. The arbitrary law differentiated the licensed authority, town planning, from the control authority. We are ambitious that in 2020 this country will have forest maps, delimitation of the beaches, full urban planning, Land register and land use. What do you see in all this? So this government - and today's bill is very characteristic, and the Land register, and quarry and many other reforms - do things that have not been done for forty years and have been done in a methodical and systematic manner. Our ambition is very simple: we are implementing a programme that brings stability to the economy, creates the conditions for recovery, opens the way for a sustainable development model. At the same time, we are making deep areas, solving decades' problems, with unique and exclusive concern for recovery and growth to be both sustainable and socially fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u285	No, Mr. Treasury. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u286	We need to clarify the issue of first residence. This has to be cleared up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u287	There are at least two political leaders who will take the floor later, Mr Mitsotakis spoke forty-five to fifty minutes. It is quite clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u288	How's it been cleared?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u289	We are talking for a week about this issue and not just about it, although the process has been very tight about such a large bill. To be okay with each other, a week has been posted and discussed in Parliament in any way that has been discussed. Eighty-three Members spoke only in this Chamber. Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express my condolences to the family of the deceased, but of course also to the government, to SYRIZA, to his colleagues and friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, a month ago you gave the advance. Now you're coming to make the payback. You have voted for an additional 1.8 billion in the 2018 budget, and now you are turning your head down and coming to the second part, because now it is the main course of the commitments you have made to the Troika in the context of the evaluation. Everything was getting easier with you. Mr. Diaselblum didn't have to tell us that. We saw it, we suffered it, the Greek people live in its daily life because you took care of it and passed it on to him in the neck. You gave it all up. You retreat to everything against the troika. You broke every red line you had. You abandoned all resistance to defending the people's interests. Of course, you didn't negotiate anything. With Chipra - Tsakato, it's all better, then. Enjoy these merchandises, ladies and gentlemen of the government staff, and you don't need to show them, because the Greek people are sure that we don't forget what SYRIZA means. Of course those who are smiling today know who's with the measures you're taking? The protagonists of the conservative party in Greece who see their policy being fully implemented, without having to rain at all. It seems that the slogan "or SYRIZA or Right" now becomes "and SYRIZA and Right". [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] That is why we insist on an open front to populism and preservation, to any policy that leads to conservative regression and to its expressors, whatever cloak it may have, whatever cloak it may be. Ladies and gentlemen, day after day you realize your political and social deadlock. Through your unpopular choices, the unjust measures, the violent budget raid you have caused, you are now facing the totalitarian conflict with society. Now the slogans and the crowns have fallen apart. Now you're not complaining about auctions. You even make it easier for them by pressing a button. Not only are you yelling for the sale of public property, but now you're selling silver. And in the face of the universal reaction of society, you vote with both hands. In this harsh reality, the true identity of SYRIZA, an opportune political alliance, a timely creation of the deep crisis that benefits the values and principles of the Left, which tries to counteract everything progressive, to equate it with the unmistakable policies of austerity and austerity, with fear of investment and development, with fear of true progress and social justice. SYRIZA, who was glorified through the popular anger, who was robbed of hope now seals with his emblematic failure the end of the era of delusion, a delusion that began with the lie that the PASOK brought the Memorandum. This is a lie that fell by stead and recently by making the Bank of Greece's internal report public - let it be too late - by verifying both the responsibilities of the Government, the governments of the New Democracy and the disastrous role of SYRIZA and the New Democracy's Good Partnership in the 'plans of anger' in 2011. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Everything that Conservative Europe and the International Monetary Fund could not or dared to demand from the previous governments took two elections and seventeen hours of negotiation to get this government to do so and first home auctions and to sell out public property and hand to strike. Ladies and gentlemen, with full knowledge of the SYRIZA - ANEL, but also absolute political cynicism, you are now in exchange for a few more months of being in power to vote before all the accelerating auctions, which will now only be carried out electronically in May, even for small public debts, and even without any care to protect the main residence of our proven fellow citizens. So those who don't make it out will lose their properties and pass them into the hands of those who have to buy it as much as with a double click. Don't tell us now that you will ensure that you protect the first residence. If you've agreed with the partners, bring it now! Why didn't you bring it into this plan? Once again lies waste and substance zero! Unprotected is the first residence of medium and small borrowers! And you baptize this whole'social intervention'. We all recognise the need to resolve the problem of red loans, but not, under conditions which break down social cohesion, leave the economy behind and create armies of homeless people in the streets, that is, that is, that we are delayed, lagging behind, that this government's full obedience to the demands of the troika. For us the protection of first residence, as I said before, of small and medium-sized borrowers is unnegotiable. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] That is why the Groups of the Democratic Alliance and the River have tabled a specific proposal for a law, which, of course, you have not even examined. You are also voting for the result of the unsuccessful negotiation that you have made at work, adopting ideological demands and ineffective views of the International Monetary Fund, without even dialogue with the workers and the social partners, confronting the New Democracy, after you have prevented and taken the job. Today, of course, we heard the Chief of the New Democracy come to our words - we told them years that it had to be done - but they also refused to do so in the past. And you are so determined and obedient that you did not have to discuss our proposal for remote electronic voting, since the unions have a register, an arrangement which enables strikes to be decided by mass participation of workers. You are voting for and applauding the acceleration of the sale of public property. A few months ago, you assured us that a special management body will be set up. You said - oh, miracle! - Lies again. Now proceed without shame to the tradition of the Hellenic Republic, the Hellenic Republic, the Hellenic Republic, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of It seems that for you a fair development will take place at the place with the general sale of national wealth. You add extra cuts to the benefits of the threeteen families and the many families. Some sixty - seven thousand families with three and four or more children will see their allowance reduced. Well, can't you understand what a problem you're creating in a country that has such a big demographic issue? The oxymomile is that a few months ago you accepted my proposal for a cross-party committee on demographics. I wonder - rhetoric is the question - why don't you expect this committee to work and give the specific conclusion that we all expect before making your decisions on these allowances? I think the answer is obvious: because you are simply not interested in what the Greek family is going through with children today. Of course your development plan is also revealed. A prototype and a class mark! Maybe that's why it took you so long to present it to us! Roulettes and gambling everywhere. For this reason, you are not generally reducing taxation on businesses, but exclusively on the owners of gambling business. You are creating, he says, a body of auditors, instead of strengthening the existing control structures. What if there is a fight against corruption, the Public Income Authority, the ILO, the Economic Police, the Financial Prosecutors? You're the ones who want it. You want new recruitments and completely controlled by the Minister of Institutions, to blindly implement the guidelines for the creation of the client state, without even feeling the need to apologise for your full compromise with the great tax evasion and smuggling of cigarettes and fuels. And you didn't leave the institution of mediation standing. You are putting the effectiveness of the institution at risk, ultimately burdening our weakest fellow citizens. It's obvious you're getting gold and making coal. Regression and relation to decentralisation and self-government. The regulation you bring, ladies and gentlemen of the government, on pre-emptive benefits not only adds bureaucratic burdens, but is a return to concentration and relapse to the customer state. I wonder where you're going back to us in the area of decentralisation. A real left government the first thing it would do would be to hand over the design and implementation of social policy to self-government rather than what you do, the exact opposite. You're collecting everything to the Minister to give tips. You've done state charity before, social policy. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras calls on the government majority to vote in favour of the plan, because this is how we ensure the exit from the crisis and the memoranda. However, this new story by Mr Tsipras is not going to succeed this time and mislead citizens again. Tonight, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing the completion of the trilogy of deception, starring SYRIZA and willing ANEL. In the first episode, what were you telling us? You told us you'd smash the memoirs, abolish them with a law and an article. In the sequel that you brought in September 2015, you spoke to us about the famous "Additional Program" and you are now projecting the clean exit in the near future as a third follow-up. But Mr Tsipras has already taken care of his exit from his third memorandum, to have access to the fourth informal memorandum, which he has already agreed in advance. How? With the commitments it has made for unreasonable surpluses of 3.5% of GDP by 2022, with the committee until 2060, with the delivery of national wealth for ninety-nine years, with the acceptance of the new cuts in pensions and the reduction of tax on wage earners and pensioners and, of course, the lack of substantial solutions for the country's public debt. I am, of course, wondering: Really, can we get out of the crisis with the anemic growth rates that we have today, with the perpetuation of capital controls, with the inability of the banking system to finance the real economy? Can we get out of the crisis with Greece being at the bottom of the list of European countries to attract investment, with small and medium-sized farmers, professionals being tested in this way, with young people continuing to leave the place? Or is anyone - apart from the government - pleased, of course, because unemployment is being treated, sharing a stable job at two and constantly reducing wages? We are the last country in Europe to be left in the memoranda and continue to impose sacrifices on the Greek people. It is time for us to change our course, finally to show our own national line, so that not only the crisis is a past, but never to return to the future, because Greece can, Greece has a prospect. However, this requires another perspective, an alternative proposal, a genuinely progressive proposal of governance, which will promote a new productive model for the development and creation of new wealth in the place, which will make sure that it is properly distributed and supported and not weakened by the middle-class, which will hit the social inequalities that have been widened into the crisis, which will finally fight the customer state, which will support and upgrade the institutions, the political system, the quality of our democracy. It needs a policy that is credible to convince the partners and to change the terms of this agreement, so that we can secure resources for development and social cohesion. In this policy, we, as a Change Movement, are firmly committed, seeking national understanding, but also strategic coexistence with the country's living, productive, creative social forces. We can get out of the crisis. We can live with dignity in this place. I am ending with a necessary point, because I have heard previous speakers: to stop, finally, SYRIZA and New Democracy engaged in a dangerous blame game on the Skopje issue, aiming at their internal audiences alone. To understand the government that through the bilingualism and the patriopathy of the ANELs it directly undermines the credibility and effectiveness of any negotiation. That's it! We have been responsible. I would remind you that our prolongation was followed by a policy that brought positive results, although the intransigence of the other side did not allow for a final solution. The Change Movement stands responsible and stable in the context of the country's shaped positions. We will be placed when the government officially deposited the product of its negotiation on the table. We're not going to be a member of SYRIZA's theatrical performance - ANEL and other self-determination composts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. I very much welcome Mr Theodorakis, President of the River, to take the floor. Then will the Minister be closed, Mrs Ahtsoglou. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u292	You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with the Macedonian, because there is a feeling that in the background these days some people have been working for another national defeat. In fact, it would be interesting to understand what other costumes Mr. Kammens intends to wear in the next few days. Because he's exhausted the army uniforms, and now he's gone to the circus suburbs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u293	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u294	The sketchographers, because they are mostly dealing with him, have recorded five different positions, five different attitudes - to speak with Mr Kammenos's dear word - about the Macedonian. Others in the morning, others in the evening, other day, other days, other scales. But the problem is Mr. Tsipras's. Do we have to solve the Macedonian? You have to. Do we have to consent to a complex name, using the term 'Macedonia', when our neighbours decide to leave the chain of corrosion and change their constitution? You have to. And for us, the name issue, the question of the solution, is not about the church. It's about the government, it's about the House. So, do we have to find a solution to a problem that has cost much to the country? Yes, but that cannot be done, gentlemen of the government, if the Foreign and Defence Ministers disagree. The Undersecretary of Agriculture, obviously, can disagree. But the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot disagree on a solution to a national issue. So do you think that the House will decide a name and the Minister of Defence will go to NATO and say 'I disagree with this solution, which our state has given'? I think we should not live this humiliation. But there is, ladies and gentlemen, a big problem with the small-scale toys of your ministers and your executives. Every second night, a department of Athens is now burning is in the program. If it's not today, it'll be tomorrow. Patisia, Exarchia, Naples and Universities are - because they have always been to a certain point - more and more battalions for hooligan groups. No reaction. And be careful, the Minister for Education comes the day before yesterday and decides to appoint a President of the Commission for infringing Mr. Paradise. It is what we call 'plain you' in Macedonia. In other words, the man who made disastrous choices in the penitentiary system, who put together the poor of prisoners and serial criminals and opened up the cells only for those who have the good lawyers, this man will tell us what to do to solve the problem of infractionality in universities. Unless Mr. Gabroglou has a sense of humor that I haven't calculated. And in order to close the triplet, Mr. Zouraris comes, he swears on those who have not cursed until now and he is asked by the government to resign. Of course, we must sympathize with Mr Zurari, because with so much he has to do with his ministry, he may not have learned of the new savage vivo of SYRIZA - ANEL executives. Mr. Tsipras has decided to keep us in agony, even on this issue, whether or not he will accept your resignation. My proposal, of course, is that Mr Zouraris should not be replaced, because there are some authors who are constantly dealing with his wrong cleansingwichs who will be unemployed. What will Yannis Harris and other serious commentators do if Mr Zouraris stops speaking from the government's headquarters? But beware of something serious, too. On the occasion of this whole story with Mr. Zourari, we have been looking for a little at "DIAGY" to see the action of Mr. Zourari in the last few months. And what did we see? We have seen that fourteen months, which is a State Secretary, has signed all nineteen decisions, all of which are formal and interoperable, that is, a signature every twenty-five days. One signature every twenty-five days. Should we at some point, gentlemen of the government, abolish ornamental ministers, ornamental State Secretarys? An army of officials, when posted and when seconded, supports offices of State Secretarys who do nothing, simply reward to vote for government bills. And we have the phenomenon, the ANELs having nine MPs and seven of them being in the government. Perhaps they are the most precise votes in our history. But, of course, the slogan is old,'monsters exist', which is why, with your bill, government expenditure is increasing once again, rather than falling. Thirteen provisions of the plan have an additional cost to the budget of about 400 million. The government is totally underestimated - and once again there have been many reports from all speakers of the opposition - once again the parliamentary procedures. We are talking about a draft Frankenstein. In four days four hundred articles were to be discussed, a thousand three hundred four pages, a hundred ministerial decisions, twelve ministries. Come in, vote, you're done. The bill, the bill, was supposed to have the prerequisites of the third evaluation. We read that the shape that the seals of medical clubs will have is now defined. Is that a prerequisite too? That's where we've arrived. The plan, ladies and gentlemen, is a memorial of centralisation. They have put in what they have remembered, what is pending, because there is a view in the last two and a half years that government MPs have voted more easily than we say is a Memorandum obligation. I will read to you fifty words that characterize the government's tactics, its delays and its mistakes, exactly 50 words: "They spent our time and the extensions were designed, it was a mockery. One of the government ministers told me that their intention was to waste time, as in the end we would endure and give them money without doing anything. Then I told him "Don't dream". Yunker had already said it in other words. He said it in his book, about the same, Mr. Moscovisi. Now Thomas Vizer says it. But let's go to the points in the plan that cause problems, rather than solve them. I will not talk about things that have been covered by other speakers, but I will mention the two - three things, which could have been right and with the SYRIZA - ANEL over-effect is also wrong. Intermediation. You are making the mistake of promoting mediation as compulsory. The institution of mediation, of course, is essential, is a European acquis. Unfortunately, in our country, it has not gone any further, although it has been legislated for seven years. And you, in order to overcome the reluctance of the citizens, make it compulsory. You are forbidden to go directly to their natural judge. Many constitutionalists consider your intervention to be unconstitutional, and everything shows that the arrangement will soon be suppressed in the courts and we will resume the debate on how to promote mediation from scratch. Auctions in favour of the public. You allow the auctioning of real estate by the public, even for debts of EUR 500. The beginning, indeed, - because they are worthy of symbolism - will become the Daymare. Should we not give any rights to those who owe the public? Why should the state be able to auction for debts of EUR 500 and the citizen, the privateer, have to wait years to collect the money that the state owes to him? Strikes. The current regime for strikes is from the 1982 trade union law, it is thirty-six years that have passed since then. I would remind you that in the same year, in 1982, the famous framework law for universities had been passed and has changed some hundred times since then. But here, we have thirty-six years of failure. The party establishment does not want a new trade union law adapted to the new reality and the interests of many workers. Under the 1982 Act, you will know that a strike could move from 10% of the workers. And now, the government brings in a new law, rather a lack of provision, which concerns few private-sector enterprises, avoiding a debate on strikes in the public sector, on strikes in secondary and tertiary unions. We say that all workers must be involved in the decisions of their associations and we must take advantage of the new ways: teleconferencing, electronic voting, so that workers are present in their decisions. When strikes acquire strong legitimacy, they will also have real power. We therefore want to have a serious debate on a radical revision of the 1982 Act, not a bulb for the eyes of the troika, but a change for the benefit of workers and public life. We're going to the auction thing. It is a well-known place, commented by everyone, SYRIZA's old position: "No house in the hands of a banker". In fact, I remember that explosion of Mr. Tsipras - and you all remember it - which in a moment of exaggeration, joy, I do not know exactly how, he said that all the loans should be given to the Greeks tested. And now we're going to the electronic auctions. Be careful, because there is something that really raises a great deal of question: Refuse, denies the government, the electronic votes in the universities. You may remember my conflict with Mr. Tsipras in this Chamber. We told him that they could no longer leave, that electronic votes in universities should be banned. And he told us that personal contact is necessary and better and that the server can't control it and therefore it can have a diabetic effect that you have through the computers. Now, the government, as it has been revealed from the non paper, estimates things differently, says that because there is high mental tension in people who lose their homes, their businesses, we should minimize personal costs. It's like saying "sitting at home or at your business, in your office or in your kitchen and see how you can electronically lose your property. Don't stand in the peace courtroom. We don't live in the first memorial era. We are an advanced Memorandum State." Of course, another explanation for the arable and irrevocable legalisation of electronic auctions and, respectively, the refusal to vote electronically in universities is that in the universities they dominate friends, while in the Peace Court and in the courts in general, the powers of comrade Lafazan dominate. Benefits. For the children's benefits we have presented a specific proposal to you: Help for those who continue to make large families, of course, no allowances to millionaires. But be serious. When you have three children, 25,000 euros are a lot? Actually, the 25,000 aren't enough. The country has a big demographic problem. There is hypogenicity and we cannot share fair and well-thought out with the benefits of the tents. You will see recently that the network for trans-national justice has calculated that the Greek state for every 1 euro - see that it spends on young people, spends 7 euros on the largest. In other words, the ratio is 7 to 1, when countries are also older, such as Sweden and Germany, the ratio is 3.5 to 1. We therefore need to strengthen young people at all levels from pre-school education to new couples, to public investment in research, training, to insurance, to help the young generation and to subsidise the jobs of young unemployed people. Because in Greece, we will have to say it again, there are still primary problems for people who want to have family in their youths. So there is a need to transfer funds to the new generation and we cannot continue to be the country with the Scandinavian taxes, but the Balkan services. Let's go to the superstition, and I'm going somewhere. Where you would take back what the previous ones have sold, you also give a clone and the fourteen ECHOs now in the excess, as well as dividends - symbolic, but it has the importance of - the public at OTE and the overseas. We must recognise to the Government, ladies and gentlemen, that it has now learned to close the Memorandum. As Jimi Panousis said in his abhorrence: "You entered the tsarouhias in the living room of Europe and you smashed down you sign everything, without applying anything." But that's not the way. This road offers a stagnation in the country, the country is dragging, but it won't go forward unless we make our own way. And the road is not only the translation of the cheques of the memorials. The road wants boldness, it wants a plan, it needs reforms, which, unfortunately, does not have at this crucial moment for the country, the government's majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, I would like for a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u296	Yes, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. I'll only speak for thirty seconds. I think Mr Theodorakis can't finally talk about any matter without remembering me. I don't know why this gladiator, but there is. I would just like to say in two words that after Law No4322, according to official figures, we had a reduction in the number of homicides in the country, we had improved prison conditions and, of course, an improvement in the country's international image. The rest is a simple yellowism. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u298	Thank you. Mrs Papanatsiou, I think you wanted something to say earlier. Is there a need? Has it been clarified?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u299	You don't have to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u300	Good. Mrs. Ahchioglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u301	And are we closing, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u302	And we close because she's the last speaker. We will give her two minutes further, because she is too young and closes the session. Mrs Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, when they asked Marx what his favorite posse is, he had answered with a saying of Terredius, saying: "Man I am and nothing else is foreign to me." [[CHANGES SEL.]] [[TAKE SEL.418 a]] [[TAKE SEL.419 a]] [[Let SEL.420 come in.]] I could endorse this phrase entirely, with an exception. I can understand everything except our choice to talk about the tree, not to talk about the forest. And I think the Opposition, these days we're in this House discussing this bill, does just that. He chooses to talk about the tree so he won't talk about the forest. What's the forest? For the first time since our country has been at the heart of the crisis in the euro area, the package you are calling on Members to vote contains more positive measures than negative ones. More importantly, this change is linked to a real change in the economy, a real improvement in the economy, a real strengthening of the most needy. On the basis of this overall improvement in the real economy and the relative success of the government to solve the country's budgetary problem, this bill we have before us contains many institutional changes. It opens up reform roads - previous ministers have also mentioned - with the changes made to the register, which are necessary after a long time in that country. Mr Haritsis referred to facilitating the licensing of enterprises, which is also important and will create new jobs. Mr Xanthos referred to the change in the institutional framework for the evaluation of medicines. It's a lot of what this bill contains. Obviously, they are not panacea, they are obviously not the solution to all our problems, but they prove something that I think is important, to have political orientation, in the midst of a difficult situation. Our strategy is clear. Every inch, every inch that this country wins to turn it into a land on which it will build policies and initiatives that will improve the position of many and build a new example for the social policy of the first century. Because I have listened to a very strong criticism of social policy that the social policy that this government is doing is a subsidy policy, I would like to say: Social policy is a very difficult mix, a very difficult balance between the relief of the weakest and the immediate response to the needs that they currently have, their pressing needs, and at the same time in the formulation of those conditions, so that those who are now unable to be weak and tomorrow are strengthened, so that they can leave this level of poverty that is being created in order to protect themselves by means of primary benefits. And in this challenge, SYRIZA is trying to respond more and more. I would like to say this at the heart of our social policy: young people, children, young workers, new workers and working parents are at the heart of our social policy. I was listening, as the Prime Minister spoke of the new family allowances, and at the same time he talked about new workers, from the officers of the Officerial Response to say: 'But why are you talking? Are you talking about the child, or are you talking about the workers?’ It is precisely this relationship that we are putting at the centre of the social policy that we are doing. We have laid the foundations for a universal policy on child and child poverty and on the level of services, which are probably more important than benefits. The Ministry of Education has already launched a very important task for compulsory pre-school education. It expanded the institution of the full day's kindergarten and full-time primary school, enabling them to function in both the most remote areas of the country and thus facilitate working parents. At the Ministry of Labour we established the institution of school meals, which you then smashed to us that they are aggregated, an institution that today receives thirty thousand children and will continue to expand and in 2019 will reach 50% of the schoolchildren in the country. We extended the institution of free access to nurseries. At the moment, a hundred thousand children have free access to nursery stations and in 2019 some sixty - five thousand children will be covered. These two institutions, free nurseries and school meals, are internationally recognised as the two most effective institutions, the two most important measures to combat child poverty. To say a few things about family allowances too, because I am truly surprised by the unwillingness - let me put it this way - of the Members of the Officers of the Vice-Presidents to read instantly a statistical table. The total budget for family allowances is increasing - we have already voted for it - from EUR 650 million to EUR 910 million. A family with a child, from 40 euros he received to date, will receive 70 euros. A family with two children, from 80 euros to the present day, will receive 140 euros. A family with three children, from 240 euros received to date, will receive 280 euros. Seven hundred thirty thousand families, in total eight hundred thousands of families receiving family allowances, will see an increase of up to double the allowance they receive. There is support to families with one and two children and support to the poorest families. However, family benefits are not only a matter of budget, and this may also give us the difficulty in consulting between us all these days when we are discussing family allowances. We are also moving towards a comprehensive restructuring of the family allowances system, which was completely distorted. I think that one can recognize this because he has given a lump sum to families who have three children and above, in fact without income criteria, without any other control, without any logic in his structure. We restructure the system of family allowances as a whole so that it is more social law and more effective. Obviously, the more space the budget creates, these can be constantly explored, as we have shown in the years that have passed. But I think the most important thing is that we have laid the foundations so that there is now a rational and socially fair system. Therefore, in this way family allowances, the overall policy that I described to you for dealing with child poverty shows exactly the nature of social policy, which is not a policy of tipping, as I often hear it remarkably called, but turns into a pillar of strengthening income and guaranteeing dignity for young workers. In the same direction, it is precisely the speeches we are making, through the Labour Inspectorate, to deal with invisible work, primarily concerning young workers, all those who work overtime and are not declared, all those who have forced the holiday season to return the holiday present and thanks to the intervention of the RES, have been rejected by these new forms of arbitrary employer practice. Speaking of labour rights. You will allow me to return to the way in which the strikes are called and the regulation in this bill. I shall say this: the right to strike is not called into question. I say this, with two listeners in mind: on the one hand, the Members of the New Democracy, who think that this government is implementing what they want, and on the other hand, the members of the JRC who claim that we are facing a disaster. Let's talk in particular. Is the right to strike in Greece at all risk? Tomorrow will Greece be a country where trade union activity will be criminalised, employers will be able to make a lock out, workers will not be able to proclaim strikes and trade unions will be fired in summary procedures? Oh, no. Could Greece be such a country tomorrow? It could be. How? If the New Democracy were to sit down at the negotiating table in the face of the International Monetary Fund. Then, yes, the right to collective claim, the right to strike, trade union action would be curtailed, persecuted. And I say this, in full consciousness, with full knowledge of the positions of the International Monetary Fund, having heard its claims personally and, of course, having read the proposal of the New Democracy, in relation to the announcement of the strikes. What did the New Democracy say in its proposal? He said that the decision to strike in all primary unions - and this may be the most critical - and in the universal-wide unions should be taken by 50%+1 of the members of the club, not by a relative majority of the present, as is currently the case - and will also be the case tomorrow - not by the administrative councils when we have pan-Hellenic unions - workers in supermarkets, shop chains, etc. - but by general meetings, where 50% of the members of the club should vote for the strike. Indeed, in such a case, the right to strike would be extremely difficult to exercise. But this is a hypothetical scenario. That is not what Members have before them today in order to vote in the bill, which will be passed tonight. I have heard another argument: this change may be a change of a limited extent, but it recommends the beginning of the eruption of the trade union law. Once again, reality is exactly the opposite. This change, as I and Mr Tsaklotos have often argued on several occasions, was precisely the change, with which the question of trade union law was finally closed, left the negotiating table and the whole debate on trade union law was completed. In this way, demands for the introduction of competitivity, for changes in strike call times and a number of other requirements, far more horizontal and immediate. I think that if anyone listens carefully once again to what is involved and what is not concerned with this regulation, it is very clear that this is not, under no circumstances, a reduction in the right to strike. I think it is completely wrong to speak in terms such as 'Armagedon' and to create for the workers themselves the feeling that everything has been over since tomorrow. My personal assessment is that what has been most disturbing in the last few years is that this government is proving that, in the midst of a difficult situation, it is possible to exercise a policy of charity in suffocating conditions. This may destabilise the ideological formation, in the second presence of the slightest improvement in the position of workers. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As the political difference is precisely that our government is trying to improve the position of workers in every area, it has given me particular impression that there has been little debate in this Chamber on a very big change, which is to be made in this bill, concerning the order of classification of creditors' claims in the event of the bankruptcy of a company. There, on the basis of the rules contained in this bill, the demands of workers for six months will be taken precedence over a prerogative. I think it is a change of enormous importance. It seems to me that this change has not been discussed in here. It is a change that directly and materially concerns the lives of the workers. It's a much heavier measure - if I may say so - than the quorum arrangement in the primary unions. This is where the substance is based. This is the thread that runs our policy: in every area that is created and in every area left by the association of forces we intervene in favour of the world of work. This is the thread that runs our policy and which also links legislative dismantling. And because I also listened to the gentlemen from PASOK shouting about the strike, I would say that from 2002 to 2014 there had been seven strikes. This is the thread, which connects our policy, when in 2015 we abolished, by our own law, the recruitment of the strikers. This is the thread of our policy, which we are doing through the Labour Inspectorate with the recent incident in Larissa, where the complaint of the two new workers has resulted in redundancies being withdrawn and the end of this shameful practice of returning the gift to employers. What I have tried to describe is precisely the association between the legislative field and everyday life in the workplace, the change in the conditions of everyday life in today. Since I started with Terentio, I'd like to hang up with a critic of literature. In 2015, Terry Ingleton took out a book saying: "Earth without optimism". In 2018 I think we can continue to hope, but also to be optimistic. That's definitely not a small thing. It's not just that we leave behind the worst. It is now that we know that we can bring the best with hard work, with perseverance to the plan, to persevere with many times of the correlations, but with a stable approach to defending the social majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Ahchioglu. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: 'Agreements for the implementation of the structural reforms of the Economic Adjustment Programme and other provisions'. A request has been made for a roll-call vote of New Democracy Members on Article 214 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u305	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Dendias Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Brutsis John. Here you go. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Andrian John. Here you go. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Mr. Katsaniotis Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Dimas Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Kerameo Nike. Here. Mr. Giulekas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Georgios George. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Consolas Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr. Fotillas Jason. Here you go. Mr. Yakoumatos Grassos. Here you go. Mr. Buras Athanasios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote Member of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR and the River in principle, on Articles 182, 380, as well as on Amendment Nos 1437 and special number 230, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u306	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Amyras George. Here you go. Mr. Danellis Spiridon. Here you go. Mr. Lykoudis Spiridon. Here you go. Mr. Mavrosh Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Pssarian Gregory. Here you go. Mr. Karras Georgios - Dimitrios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Finally, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Communist Party of Greece on the principle of Articles 208 and 211 and on the amendment number 1437 and a special number 230 whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u307	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Pappiga Aleka. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle of Articles 182, 208, 211, 214 and 380 as well as on the Ministerial Amendment No 1437/230 to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Agreements for the implementation of the structural reforms of the Economic Adjustment Programme and other provisions’. Do you accept the three votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u309	The House has agreed. The acceptance of the bill in principle, Articles 182, 208, 211, 214, 214 and 380 and Amendment No 1437/230 say ‘NEI’. Those who fail to accept the bill in principle, Articles 182, 208, 211, 214, 214 and 380 and Amendment No 1437/230 say 'OH'. The voters are saying 'PARON'. They are called on the list: Mrs Anastasia Gara by SYRIZA and Mr Vassilis Jogakas from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that a fax number has come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which makes its vote in principle, on Articles 182, 208, 211, 214 and 380 and on Amendment No 1437/230 of the bill. This vote will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u310	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letter, sent to the Bureau by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolao Kotzias, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u311	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Andreas Loverdos, Sofia Vultesis and Annas - Michelle Asmakopoulou, who will not be present in today's roll-call vote and inform us by letter of their vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Until the count is completed, we shall proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments. Because there are too many articles, you have been distributed a list of the articles that are grouped together so that we can finish the vote on them soon. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill at first has been put in roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u321	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u330	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u334	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u339	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u348	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u357	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u361	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u366	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u368	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u370	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u375	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u377	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u379	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u384	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u388	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u393	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u397	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u402	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u406	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u411	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u420	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u429	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u433	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u438	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u442	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u447	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u456	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u465	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u469	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u470	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u474	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u478	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u482	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u483	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u487	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u492	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u496	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u501	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u510	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u519	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u528	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u537	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u546	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u555	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u564	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u573	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u582	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u584	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u586	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u591	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u593	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u595	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u600	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u609	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u611	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u613	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u618	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u627	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u631	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u636	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u640	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u645	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u649	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u654	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u663	Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u667	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u672	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 41 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u676	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u681	Article 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u685	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u690	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u693	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u694	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u699	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u703	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u708	Article 44 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u712	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u717	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u721	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u726	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u730	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u735	Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 48 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u737	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u744	Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree to Rule 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u748	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u753	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u757	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u761	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u762	Article 50 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 51 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u765	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u767	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u770	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u771	Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u773	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u774	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u775	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u779	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u780	Article 52 therefore has a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u782	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u783	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u789	Article 53 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u792	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u798	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u805	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u807	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u810	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u814	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u816	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u825	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u827	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u830	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u832	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u834	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Article 59, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u836	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u843	Article 59 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u847	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u848	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u852	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u860	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u861	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u863	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u864	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u866	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u868	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u870	Article 62 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u873	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u878	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u879	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u881	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u882	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u883	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u884	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u886	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u887	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u888	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u890	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u891	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u892	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u893	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u895	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u897	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u899	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u901	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u902	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u904	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u906	Article 66 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 67 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u910	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u911	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u913	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u915	Article 67 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u919	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u922	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u924	Article 68 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 69 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u928	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u933	Article 69 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 70 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u937	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u942	Article 70 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u946	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u947	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u949	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u951	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u955	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u956	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u958	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u960	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u964	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u965	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u967	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u969	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u973	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u974	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u976	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u977	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u978	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u982	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u983	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u984	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u985	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u987	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u991	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u992	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u993	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u994	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u996	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1000	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1001	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1005	Article 77 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1009	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1010	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1011	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1014	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1018	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1019	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1020	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1022	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1023	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1025	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1027	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1029	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1032	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1036	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1037	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1038	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1040	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1041	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1044	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1045	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1046	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1047	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1050	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 83 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1052	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1054	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1055	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1056	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1059	Article 83 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1060	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1063	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1064	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1065	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1066	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1068	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1069	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1070	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1072	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1073	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1074	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1075	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1077	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1078	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1079	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1080	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1081	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1082	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1083	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1084	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1085	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1086	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1088	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1089	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1090	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1091	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1092	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1094	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1095	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1097	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1099	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1100	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1104	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1108	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1109	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1113	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1117	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1122	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1126	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1127	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1131	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1135	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1136	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1140	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1144	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1145	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1149	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1153	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1158	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1162	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1167	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1171	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1174	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1176	Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 97 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1180	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1185	Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1189	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1190	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1194	Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1198	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1203	Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1207	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1212	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1216	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1221	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1225	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1230	Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1239	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1243	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1248	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1257	Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1261	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1266	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1275	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1279	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1284	Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 109 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1293	Article 109 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1297	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1298	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1302	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 111 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1306	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1307	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1311	Article 111 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1315	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1320	Article 112 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1329	Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 114 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1338	Article 114 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 115 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1347	Article 115 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 116 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1356	Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 117 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1365	Article 117 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 118 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1368	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1370	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1374	Article 118 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 119 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1379	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1383	Article 119 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 120 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1388	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1392	Article 120 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 121 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1399	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1401	Article 121 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 122 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1406	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1410	Article 122 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 123 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1419	Article 123 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 124 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1428	Article 124 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 125 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1433	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1437	Article 125 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 126 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1442	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1446	Article 126 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 127 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1455	Article 127 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 128 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1464	Article 128 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 129 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1467	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1469	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1473	Article 129 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 130 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1476	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1478	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1482	Article 130 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 131 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1485	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1487	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1491	Article 131 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 132 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1496	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1500	Article 132 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 133 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1509	Article 133 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 134 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1518	Article 134 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 135 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1527	Article 135 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 136 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1536	Article 136 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 137 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1545	Article 137 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 138 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1554	Article 138 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 139 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1557	Present
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1563	Article 139 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 140 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1572	Article 140 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 141 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1581	Article 141 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 142 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1586	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1590	Article 142 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 143 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1595	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1599	Article 143 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 144 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1608	Article 144 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 145 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1613	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1617	Article 145 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 146 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1626	Article 146 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 147 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1631	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1635	Article 147 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 148 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1640	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1644	Article 148 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 149 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1649	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1653	Article 149 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 150 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1662	Article 150 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 151 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1665	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1667	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1670	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1671	Article 151 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 152 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1676	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1680	Article 152 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 153 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1685	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1688	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1689	Article 153 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 154 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1693	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1694	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1698	Article 154 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 155 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1703	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1707	Article 155 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 156 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1711	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1712	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1716	Article 156 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 157 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1720	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1721	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1725	Article 157 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 158, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1730	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1734	Article 158 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 159 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1743	Article 159 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 160 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1748	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1752	Article 160 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 161 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1757	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1761	Article 161 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 162 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1770	Article 162 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 163 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1775	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1779	Article 163 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 164 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1783	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1788	Article 164 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 165 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1797	Article 165 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 166 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1806	Article 166 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 167 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1810	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1815	Article 167 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 168 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1824	Article 168 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 169 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1833	Article 169 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 170 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1837	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1842	Article 170 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 171 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1847	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1851	Article 171 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 172 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1860	Article 172 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 173 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1867	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1868	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1869	Article 173 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 174 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1872	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1877	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1878	Article 174 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 175 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1882	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1883	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1887	Article 175 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 176 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1889	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1891	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1892	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1896	Article 176 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 177 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1898	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1900	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1905	Article 177 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 178 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1909	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1910	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1914	Article 178 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 179 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1918	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1919	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1923	Article 179 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 180 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1925	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1926	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1927	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1928	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1932	Article 180 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 181 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1934	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1935	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1936	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1937	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1941	Article 181 was therefore accepted as majority. Rule 182 has been put in roll-call vote. Will Rule 183, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1943	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1944	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1945	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1946	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1949	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1950	Article 183 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 184 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1952	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1953	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1954	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1955	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1958	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1959	Article 184 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 185 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1961	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1962	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1963	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1964	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1966	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1967	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1968	Article 185 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 186 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1970	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1971	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1972	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1973	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1975	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1976	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1977	Article 186 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 187 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1979	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1980	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1981	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1982	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1984	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1985	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1986	Article 187 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 188 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1988	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1989	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1990	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1991	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1994	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1995	Article 188 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 189 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1997	Oh, no. CONSTANTINOPOULOS CONSTANTINOULOS NO.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1998	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u1999	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2002	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2003	Article 189 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 190 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2005	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2006	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2007	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2008	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2011	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2012	Article 190 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 191 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2014	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2015	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2016	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2017	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2020	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2021	Article 191 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 192 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2022	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2023	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2024	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2025	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2026	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2029	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2030	Article 192 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 193 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2032	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2033	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2034	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2035	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2038	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2039	Article 193 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 194 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2040	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2041	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2042	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2043	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2044	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2047	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2048	Article 194 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 195 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2050	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2051	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2052	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2053	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2056	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2057	Article 195 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 196 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2059	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2060	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2061	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2062	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2064	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2065	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2066	Article 196 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 197 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2068	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2069	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2070	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2071	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2073	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2074	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2075	Article 197 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 198, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2077	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2078	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2079	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2080	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2082	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2083	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2084	Article 198 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 199 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2085	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2086	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2087	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2088	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2089	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2090	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2092	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2093	Article 199 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 200 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2094	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2095	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2096	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2097	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2098	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2099	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2101	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2102	Article 200 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 201 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2104	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2106	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2107	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2110	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2111	Article 201 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 202 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2113	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2114	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2115	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2116	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2119	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2120	Article 202 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 203 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2123	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2124	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2125	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2128	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2129	Article 203 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 204 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2131	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2132	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2137	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2138	Article 204 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 205 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2141	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2147	Article 205 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 206 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2149	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2151	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2156	Article 206 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 207, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2158	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2160	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2165	Article 207 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 208 has been put in roll-call votes. Will Rule 209 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2167	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2170	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2172	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2174	Article 209 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 210 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2182	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2183	Article 210 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 211 has been put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 212 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2187	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2188	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2192	Article 212 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 213 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2194	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2196	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2201	Article 213 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 214 has been put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 215 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2205	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2210	Article 215 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 216, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2214	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2219	Article 216 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 217 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2223	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2228	Article 217 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 218 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2231	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2232	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2237	Article 218 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 219 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2246	Article 219 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 219a be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2255	Article 219a was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 219B be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2257	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2264	Article 219B was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 220 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2272	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2273	Article 220 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 221 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2280	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2281	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2282	Article 221 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 222 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2286	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2291	Article 222 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 223 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2298	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2299	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2300	Article 223 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 224 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2302	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2304	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2305	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2307	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2309	Article 224 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 225 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2312	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2313	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2314	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2318	Article 225 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 226 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2322	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2327	Article 226 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 227 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2332	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2334	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2336	Article 227 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 228 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2345	Article 228 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 229 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2354	Article 229 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 230 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2361	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2363	Article 230 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 231 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2368	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2370	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2372	Article 231 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 232 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2377	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2379	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2381	Article 232 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 233, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2388	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2390	Article 233 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 234 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2397	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2398	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2399	Article 234 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 235 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2406	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2408	Article 235 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 236 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2417	Article 236 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 237 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2426	Article 237 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 238 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2433	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2435	Article 238 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 239 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2444	Article 239 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 240 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2453	Article 240 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 241 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2462	Article 241 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 242 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2465	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2469	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2471	Article 242 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 243 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2475	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2480	Article 243 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 244 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2483	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2489	Article 244 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 245 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2492	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2498	Article 245 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 246 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2507	Article 246 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 247 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2516	Article 247 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 248 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2525	Article 248 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 249 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2534	Article 249 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 250 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2543	Article 250 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 251 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2552	Article 251 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 252 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2561	Article 252 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 253 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2570	Article 253 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 254 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2579	Article 254 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 255 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2586	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2588	Article 255 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 256 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2595	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2597	Article 256 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 257 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2601	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2602	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2606	Article 257 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 258 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2615	Article 258 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 259 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2624	Article 259 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 260 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2633	Article 260 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 261 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2642	Article 261 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 262 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2646	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2651	Article 262 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 263, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2654	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2660	Article 263 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 264 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2665	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2669	Article 264 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 265 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2678	Article 265 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 266 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2687	Article 266 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 267 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2696	Article 267 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 268 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2705	Article 268 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 269 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2714	Article 269 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 270 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2723	Article 270 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 271 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2732	Article 271 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 272 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2741	Article 272 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 273 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2750	Article 273 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 274 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2754	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2759	Article 274 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 275 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2762	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2766	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2767	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2768	Article 275 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 276 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2771	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2775	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2776	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2777	Article 276 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 277 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2780	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2782	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2784	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2785	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2786	Article 277 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 278 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2789	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2790	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2791	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2793	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2794	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2795	Article 278 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 279 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2798	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2804	Article 279 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 280 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2806	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2813	Article 280 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 281 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2815	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2817	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2822	Article 281 was therefore accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 282 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2826	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2831	Article 282 was therefore accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 283 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2833	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2835	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2840	Article 283 was therefore accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 284 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2841	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2842	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2849	Article 284 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 285 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2851	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2853	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2858	Article 285 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 286 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2860	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2861	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2862	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2866	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2867	Article 286 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 287 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2869	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2870	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2871	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2872	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2875	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2876	Article 287 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 288 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2878	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2879	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2880	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2881	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2883	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2884	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2885	Article 288 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 289 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2887	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2888	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2889	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2890	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2892	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2893	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2894	Article 289 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 290 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2896	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2898	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2899	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2902	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2903	Article 290 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 291 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2907	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2912	Article 291 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 292 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2914	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2916	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2917	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2921	Article 292 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 293 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2923	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2925	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2930	Article 293 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 294 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2931	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2932	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2934	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2936	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2939	Article 294 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 295 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2940	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2941	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2942	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2943	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2945	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2948	Article 295 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 296 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2950	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2951	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2952	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2956	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2957	Article 296 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 297 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2959	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2960	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2961	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2962	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2964	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2965	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2966	Article 297 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 298 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2968	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2969	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2970	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2971	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2973	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2974	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2975	Article 298 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 299 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2976	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2977	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2978	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2979	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2980	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2982	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2983	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2984	Article 299 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 300 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2986	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2987	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2988	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2989	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2992	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2993	Article 300 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 301 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2995	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2996	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2997	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2998	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u2999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3002	Article 301 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 302 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3003	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3004	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3006	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3011	Article 302 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 303 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3013	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3015	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3020	Article 303 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 304 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3021	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3022	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3024	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3029	Article 304 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 305 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3030	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3031	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3033	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3038	Article 305 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 306 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3040	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3042	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3044	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3047	Article 306 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 307 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3048	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3049	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3051	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3056	Article 307 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 308 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3057	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3058	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3060	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3061	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3063	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3064	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3065	Article 308 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 309 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3066	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3067	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3068	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3069	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3070	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3072	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3073	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3074	Article 309 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 310 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3075	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3076	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3077	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3078	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3079	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3080	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3081	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3082	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3083	Article 310 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 311 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3085	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3086	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3087	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3088	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3089	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3090	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3092	Article 311 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 312 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3093	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3094	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3095	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3096	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3097	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3099	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3101	Article 312 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 313 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3103	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3110	Article 313 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 314 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3112	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3114	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3119	Article 314 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 315 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3121	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3123	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3128	Article 315 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 316 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3130	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3132	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3137	Article 316 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 317 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3139	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3141	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3145	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3146	Article 317 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 318 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3155	Article 318 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 319 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3157	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3160	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3163	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3164	Article 319 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 320 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3166	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3167	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3171	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3172	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3173	Article 320 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 321 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3175	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3178	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3180	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3182	Article 321 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 322 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3184	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3189	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3191	Article 322 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 323 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3193	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3194	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3198	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3199	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3200	Article 323 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 324 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3209	Article 324 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 325 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3218	Article 325 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 326 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3222	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3227	Article 326 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 327 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3231	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3236	Article 327 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 328 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3245	Article 328 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 329 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3254	Article 329 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 330 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3262	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3263	Article 330 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 331 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3266	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3268	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3270	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3272	Article 331 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 332 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3277	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3279	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3281	Article 332 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 333 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3283	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3284	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3286	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3288	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3290	Article 333 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 334 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3293	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3299	Article 334 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 335 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3308	Article 335 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 336 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3312	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3317	Article 336 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 337 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3326	Article 337 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 338 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3335	Article 338 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 339 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3344	Article 339 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 340 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3353	Article 340 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 341 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3360	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3362	Article 341 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 342 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3367	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3371	Article 342 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 343 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3380	Article 343 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 344 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3389	Article 344 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 345 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3392	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3398	Article 345 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 346 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3406	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3407	Article 346 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 347 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3416	Article 347 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 348 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3425	Article 348 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 349 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3434	Article 349 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 350 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3442	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3443	Article 350 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 351 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3452	Article 351 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 352, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3461	Article 352 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 353, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3470	Article 353 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 354 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3475	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3477	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3479	Article 354 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 355 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3488	Article 355 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 356 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3497	Article 356 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 357 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3506	Article 357 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 358 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3515	Article 358 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 359 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3518	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3524	Article 359 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 360 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3533	Article 360 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 361 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3542	Article 361 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 362 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3551	Article 362 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 363, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3560	Article 363 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 364 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3569	Article 364 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 365 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3578	Article 365 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 366 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3586	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3587	Article 366 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 367 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3595	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3596	Article 367 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 368 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3600	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3601	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3605	Article 368 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 369 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3613	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3614	Article 369 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 370 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3623	Article 370 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 371, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3631	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3632	Article 371 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 372, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3636	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3640	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3641	Article 372 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 373 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3645	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3646	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3649	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3650	Article 373 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 374 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3654	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3658	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3659	Article 374 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 375 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3663	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3667	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3668	Article 375 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 376 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3672	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3676	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3677	Article 376 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 377 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3685	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3686	Article 377 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 378 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3693	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3694	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3695	Article 378 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Can Rule 379, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3703	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3704	Article 379 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Rule 380 has been put in roll-call votes. Will Rule 381 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3711	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3712	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3713	Article 381 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 382 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3716	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3720	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3721	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3722	Article 382 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 383 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3726	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3730	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3731	Article 383 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 384 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3735	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3740	Article 384 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 385 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3744	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3748	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3749	Article 385 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 386 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3757	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3758	Article 386 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 387 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3767	Article 387 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 388 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3772	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3775	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3776	Article 388 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 389 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3781	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3783	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3785	Article 389 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 390 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3790	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3794	Article 390 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 391, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3799	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3803	Article 391 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 392 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3805	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3806	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3810	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3812	Article 392 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 393 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3814	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3815	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3821	Article 393 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 394 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3825	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3830	Article 394 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 395 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3832	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3833	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3835	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3839	Article 395 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 396 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3848	Article 396 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 397 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3853	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3857	Article 397 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 398 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3861	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3862	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3866	Article 398 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 399 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3868	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3871	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3875	Article 399 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the vote on the amendments. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1436 and a special number 229 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3878	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3879	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3880	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3882	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3883	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3884	So the amendment with a general figure of 1426 and a specialist of 229 was accepted as it is by a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1438 and a special number 231 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3886	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3888	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3889	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3891	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3893	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1438 and a specialist of 231 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 167 of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 295 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 154 MPs. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 MPs. The draft law of the Ministry of Finance was therefore adopted by a majority for the implementation of the structural reforms of the Economic Adjustment Programme and other provisions. Article 182 has adopted a total of 295 Members. In favour of Rule 182, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 154 Members. Against Rule 182, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 141 Members. Article 182 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 295 Members voted on Article 208. In favour of Rule 208, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against Rule 208, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. Article 208 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. A total of 295 Members voted on Article 211. In favour of Rule 211, i.e. 'NAH', 155 Members voted. Against Rule 211, i.e. 'NO', they voted 135 Members. "Communities" voted 5 MPs. Article 211 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 214 passed a total of 295 Members. In favour of Rule 214, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against Rule 214, i.e. 'NO', 125 Members voted. 'Communities' voted 16 MPs. Article 214 was therefore accepted as a majority. A total of 295 Members voted on Article 380. In favour of Rule 380, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against Rule 380, i.e. 'OH', 141 Members voted. Article 380 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. The amendment, with a general number of 1437, was adopted by a total of 295 Members. In favour of Amendment No 1437 and a specialist of 230, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 154 Members. Against Amendment No 1437 and a specialist of 230, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1437 and a special 230 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3894	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3896	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3898	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3899	Nope.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3901	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3902	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3903	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The draft law of the Ministry of Finance, therefore, was adopted in principle and on the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3906	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3907	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3908	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3910	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3911	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3912	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Standards for the implementation of the Structural Reforms of the Economic Adjustment Programme and other provisions’ has been accepted, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3913	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3914	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. At this point, I would like to read out a letter tabled by Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economics, which reads as follows: 'Mr President, I hereby declare my will as I join the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group as a collaborative Member. Congressman II Piraeus Theodora Megalonikos”. Hence the majority increased to fifty - four. There is also the following letter to the Honourable President of Parliament: "Mr. President, I would like to inform you that from now on Member II Piraeus M. Megalo-economou is part of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group as a collaborator with the SYRIZA Member. Yours sincerely Alexis Tsipras Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3915	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-15-S1-commons.u3916	With the agreement of the House at 20.32 the meeting for the next Wednesday 17 January 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work, is to be resolved: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Energy Communities and other provisions".
