ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will start the debate with the seventh number 1517-17-4-2018 topical question of the second question of the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health on the subject: "Restoration of problems in the operating rooms of the new wing of the Chios Hospital". Mr Papoulakis will reply to the current question by the Deputy Minister of Health. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the topical question, which I tabled under parliamentary control, concerns the new ward of the Surgery Clinic, which houses the Surgery Clinic, as well as other sections, of the "Skill" Chios Hospital, which was delivered for use in 2013. Since then, in these few years of its operation, it has raised serious issues, which have to do with the technical advisers from time to time - with malignancies, with a dominant issue of the last period of influx of water from the Dome of the Surgery Clinic. The water influx has reached the O.R. halls. The paradox, Minister, is that the technical studies on the basis of which the project has been built, as far as the services of the hospital are concerned - as far as I know from the services of the Second Health Region - which makes it impossible to control exactly what has happened with this project. I must point out to you that this project has never been received either temporarily or permanently - that is, no administrative receipt of the project - if not just the administrative receipt of the hotel equipment. It is an issue, which I think is more general topics and I would like to know what exactly you are planning first at the level of dealing with the problems that are arising and which the administration of the hospital has made known to you and - secondly - how we are dealing with in a more general context this issue of questions raised in connection with the construction of this project, which I must say has cost EUR 25 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the timely question. We know the problems at Chios Hospital. Unfortunately, this is another episode of corresponding works undertaken by DPAIN to study and manufacture throughout the country the "golden" decades that tied dogs to sausages. Indeed - it is not the only example of Chios - there are many examples of either malicious or incomplete works, while too much money was spent, with continuous extensions of contracts, works in which they were inaugurated today, and the other day they received the equipment they had brought and continue to make. For example, I mention the Hospital in Amalada. Now, in your hospital, the new wings began in 2002 and ended in 2013, having paid 23 million euros and without completely creating the pathological wing. The pathological wing has been transferred with the funding of 100,000 euros that we provided from the Ministry of Health reserve last year, in a space in the new building, but which should not have been built and which we incorporated. We have obtained feasibility approval and studies have also been approved. It has joined the North Aegean PLEN and from what the administration has informed us, until the next two to three months the notice will have come, because it has also joined there, which is a budget of EUR 2 200 000. Thirdly, what you say is unreasonable, but it is a reality. There are no studies to see what has happened and whether they have been observed. This is still not the first example. We've had the same thing with the National Center of Hepatitism in the Thracomacedon. There we cannot find the studies with which it was built, rebuilt, completed and recompleted, because the DEPANIM which today is one of the three factors that built the CYP, is really a very sinful story. It is a very sinful story of overpriceds, prolongations and mistreats. What happened - and you know it, I suppose, but the question had also been tabled before - was that a technician came down - because there is no corresponding technician at the hospital in Chios - from the second sanitary district, they made an assessment of the state of the operating room and were subsidised - they have taken the money to the hospital - with a sum of EUR 50 000 in order to make the repairs to this wing. Because the administration has changed in the CBYP and it seems to be taking one thing that was blocked by a service mechanism, for this story, as for other stories, we have given clear orders along with Mr. Spirtzi in the new administration to recover the files and all that he has found. For example - I will tell you something small in relation to this project - KYP built the hospital in Chania. There he bought a c camera, which was never unpacked. Never! We saw and had to find the paperwork of what they received at the time. After a year, we found them and a court procedure has been initiated to make them accountable. The same will happen with the hospital yours. The same will be done for others, because at the end of the day, someone has to pay for all this diffusion of the Greek people's money. The immediate problem with surgery will be solved on the basis of the instructions of the second health district technician who went down and appreciated there and the grant made to the hospital. I believe that now with the completion of the project, with the rest that comes in with the EUR 2 200 000, it will probably be possible to get through there and everything else that is needed to deliver a building to the land community, which will be functional and will not get water into the surgery.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u7	I am not surprised by what I hear, Minister. You are right to point out that it is in a more general climate, which has prevailed, and unfortunately its infinites are going to the present day. I would also like to point out - obviously you are aware - that by a unanimous decision of the board of directors, the new management of the hospital is seeking and moving all the legal and civil means which are being imposed in order to find the possible responsibilities. What we should obviously have in mind is that it is a good impression that - and I hear it from you, that is, that the studies on which the project was built are incorrect. I think that is not the common sense, but the common sense, that is to say, at the moment, five years after the operation of the project, we cannot identify the studies on the basis of which the project was built. You will allow me to comment, saying that I do not think that is at all accident. I believe that it is not easy to disappear studies and even studies to build projects on this scale of EUR 24 million. I think some people, for some reasons, have made sure that these studies are not available. We are following this issue, Minister, and I think it is a matter which should be investigated for reasons of order, but above all for reasons of responsibility towards the Greek people, from whose misery this money has been spent and we do not know how they were spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u9	I want to say two words. I fully agree with what you say, Mr Michaelides. I believe that the new administration and the new CEO, as some other things have found, will also be able to find this file. Last year, this file was searched by too many servicemen, but they don't know where they have it, as they didn't know and where we had the part of the g-cam, which was found. I believe that it will be possible to find itself in cooperation with the hospital and with the CBC. This judicial procedure will have to be initiated. It is also a "field" of the whole scandal in the field of health. Since you're giving me the chance to say a couple of words about Chios Hospital, which has been reinforced over the past two years. It's really about pulling your hair into a project delivered in 2013, in 2017-2018, putting water on the roof. At some point, and at some point everything was to fix the works, build the buildings, take the mist and finish. This is where we built twenty-three JETs, excellent buildings, with excellent equipment, which never worked. The five have been "speaking". The Chios Hospital's budget has been strengthened. Of the 3,700,000 that the previous government had planned to get in 2015, it has come to get cumulative budgets and EOPY 7,500,000 in 2018. It's practically doubling his grant. A total of nineteen doctor posts have been declared. They have served ten permanent doctors, another nine are expected and they are on duty from all other categories of staff other than sixty-two and are expected to take on two other than the last notice, 7K, this year. It is also the hospitals that have proceeded with the cleaners contract. Seventeen cleaners have been hired there with parallel savings, and I think it is of different quality what it offers its citizens, which should not really be spoiled by any such images. I believe that there will soon be a repair, but I believe, above all, that the dossiers should be discovered and that what should be attributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u10	Then we will discuss the ninth number 1511/16-2018 topical question by the Member of the Laconia Parliamentary Party of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Duration of patients from EKAV to intensive treatment units for private clinics". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I came here today to discuss a matter of extremely humanity related to two-speed patients. Mr President, our Constitution imposes equality and equalisation on Greek citizens. We in the past few years have tried, but we have not. We made mistakes. I came here today, without any sign of self-interest and political controversy, to raise a real issue in the Greek Parliament and to hear it from the Ministry's political leadership. All Greek citizens, for the majority of them, are taxpayers and are insured. In recent years, however, there has been a distorted explanation of a law and a ministerial decision that says that, when there is no bed in the public sector, when the public hospital is looking for an intensive treatment unit, it finds nowhere, but it finds itself in the private sector, the EMCDDA does not accept to move the disease to the private hospital, so that we have time to lose, money from the private individual - who is called out of his pocket and the vulnerability - at the difficult economic times today, to pay the cost to a private hospital - but above all there is a cost to the health of the disease itself. He will, for example, call from Karpenisi a private ambulance from Athens or Thessaloniki to bring him to Athens, losing valuable time to treat the heavy problem. I ask the Minister, the Government, and the Minister adjacent Minister for Justice, equality and equality of opportunity for human rights. No one in this country, whatever it may think, however ideological it is, can remove the right to health, freedom and accessibility to health services. I demand that the Minister for Justice assure me, after the Minister for Health has made sure that I am excluded, that Greek citizens have access to health services, wherever they may be, and that they are entitled to be transported by public means to the fastest, best and most effective sanitary form, when the public health sector is unable to do so. That's my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. To see the whole picture, Mr. Colleague, both in the House and in medicine and specialization...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u14	Don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u15	We need to talk in terms...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u16	Answer me politically. Don't give me that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u17	I will respond politically, but in the way that I want, not in the way of the delayed sensitivity of health and human rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u18	Now you're gonna deny me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u19	If you're here to fight, you know I'm in a fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u20	I didn't come to fight with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u21	I'll answer the way I want, the way I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u22	Good, answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u23	So, in January 2015, we received from your cohabitation in which you were Deputy Minister - where I sit you - four hundred and thirty-eight intensive care unit beds in operation in the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u24	Five hundred sixty for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u25	Don't give up on that. The records are specific and do not call into question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u26	I doubt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u27	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Gregoraco. You know I'm right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u28	I can't hear a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u29	Well, we received four hundred thirty-eight beds in operation. Right now that we're talking about beds, five hundred and seventy. I would remind you that the record that our country has reached the public sector was the rather than the five hundred beds of the period just before the Olympic Games. Never before did the country have the number of beds in the public sector it currently has. If you talk about the beds that generally exist - and these are calculated - these are six hundred seventy-five. These beds exist like infrastructure. I don't know if you count that. We in these two years must have added around sixty and seventy beds to infrastructure level with the various projects that have been completed. However, we do not measure what is generally there, we measure what is specifically working. In January 2015, there were four hundred thirty-eight operating in March 2018, five hundred seventy-seven. Now listen. This has increased the capacity of the public health system and this is illustrated by the fact that no one has made a fuss about it this year, like the one that went to do in 2016, when we had that imbalance with the beds of the CEDEFOP etc. There's no long waiting for a IF bed. The first quarter of 2018 midwives in EKEB looking for a bed are twelve to fourteen people a day who find a bed. There are no more 50, seventy, eighty. It also helped us not have a large influenza epidemic, which helped us to get more inoculated in the autumn. Secondly, we have signed contracts with many private clinics and the total number of beds that can be nursed by Greek citizens free of charge, when they do not find a bed from the public sector, is around seventy in the Lefkanopowine that moves through EKAV and where the EKA takes them and goes there, when there is no bed in a public hospital or if someone is hospitalized and he is heavier again there is not in the hospital or in another place, he takes the EKAV for free there, to be hospitalized for free there. That's all there is. And now I'm going to announce something, since you're asking the question. This process will go through the EMCDDA and not the EMCDDA that was up to now. The EEA has already set up an electronic platform so that we can monitor exactly what's going on. This is the first time that private clinics who have hospitalized patients who could not find a bed in the public sector and have been hospitalized there, for this part of the expenditure will not be charged with clawback, with an automatic cut. We had put EUR 21,000 to be spent in a closed budget for this part, and finally the expenditure was EUR 14,560,000 for the whole of 2017. About three thousand patients were hospitalized in these beds all over 2017 and did not pay. That's what we did as a state. And because, firstly, we're going to open up other beds and face the problem that will be created in the next month and a half, we're already getting ready with the question that CEDEFOP contracts are over. We have already taken three measures to deal with this problem. We're gonna open up more beds in the public sector to work on everything that exists. Secondly, we will extend to the extent that there is a need for the contract. But you know, because we've been pulling a lot in the past few years and as a country, I can't leave holes in the system. I mean, I can't let a private clinic get a 1,000 or 2,000 euros a day from the sick person and at the same time testify to collect both the CEN or the daily hospital. This is over! But this to be checked, there must be - prepared by the EEA and its IT department and which is excellent - an electronic platform that will be real time - and that is why it will go to the EMCDDA - and we will know how many beds it has in Lefkanoped from the private sector. Sixty, seventy, eighty. Now that they saw that we have no cutback, see that this year they will give us extra beds as availability in the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u30	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u31	I don't want - I want to say it completely -...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u32	But you are extending to other issues and we will be delayed. You've been talking for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u33	That's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u34	Because the question concerns the EAW and the transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u35	...because we have this plan, I don't want - and politically I don't want - to transfer the NSAV to a private clinic to pay for his hospitality after. I am trying to cover him, whether by strengthening the public sector beds or by contract with private-sector beds, but where the patient will not pay. When he goes to a bed that he doesn't pay - and today - and takes him free of charge, when his hospital is finished there and he doesn't choose - the vast majority of cases he doesn't choose - to stay in the clinic, then he turns the NSAB back to the hospital for free, from which he comes from.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u36	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u37	This is the big picture, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, we have come here to discuss something very important without rush. You gave the Minister eight minutes and me in the second minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Gregoraco, I tried to shorten up, but anyway, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u41	So please listen to me. From half your debate and beyond I agree. I mean, I agree with clawback, I agree with control, I agree with the EMCDDA, that there should be more beds, that I agree with what you said, if you do, about the CENO, that is, if you give an extension, and if you quickly give and win all of this, I fully agree with you. I didn't come here to argue with you today. I have come on a subject that you have not touched at all, but you have passed it that way. And you have the Minister of Justice and all of us. The Greek citizen has paid everything in insurance in his life and has worked to have his security and to have a level playing field against what is called a state and what is called health and the state represents the Ministry of Health. It is not meant to go out to the House and say "I don't go", since there is no bed in the public sector anywhere, because I have these good children who don't want to work, so go the incident from Karpenisi, from Agrini, from the Tower to an empty private sector bed. I consider this unacceptable and racist. I have said so for three reasons: firstly, for the time that the individual will be lost to send the ambulance where the incident is. Secondly, on rights. For what rights and who is he who determines human rights in life? You from the Ministry? Your people, who tell you from the hospital that "I want to go there, I found a bed in the Intensive Treatment Unit of this hospital, this private hospital, is available to me" and you don't give the ambulance, because a private ambulance must come, which should not be burdened with the already burdened financial situation of the Greek citizen? Why all this? Why so much protection in this guild? What makes you so busy? You are a minister who put you there by the Prime Minister, the Greek state to defend the interests of Greek citizens and, above all, to defend the sacred good called health. So I do not understand your obsession when there is nowhere in either the last "Colopetinica" bed of EKAV or the public sector and there is in the private sector. The public sector with all its means must do its utmost to save a life. There I blame you, Mr Polakis, and you did not answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u42	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u43	You do well and blame me, Mr. Gregoraco. We have another political plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u44	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u45	It's obvious, because this late sensitivity to human rights...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u46	Three years you've been in the chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u47	Can I ask you something? Three years ago, you were in this chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u48	We're talking new.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Gregoraco, let the Minister answer, so we can finish. We've got a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u50	Your questions, then, weren't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u51	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u52	Wasn't there much more today than patients who didn't find a bed? This year is much less.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u53	We're going to set off?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u54	Listen. For a person who chooses to be treated in private IF, the lowest of his costs is transport. Second, I don't want to leave a door open to that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u55	What if there's a need?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u56	It's very small and a bit as long as the weather comes forward. But it can be very big, if the easy solution is "I have next door void, don't look through the EAW". Because the doctor you're talking about doesn't generally find a bed in the private sector. Those who specifically find bed in the private sector, when there is no one, are relatives. The doctor of the public hospital is looking in the EKA, looking in public hospitals and looking through the EKAB in private clinics that have contracted with EEAY and the patient is not paying. The rest isn't looking for them. He's not on the raid! A doctor from Karpenisi cannot stand up and say "I found a bed in "Health".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u57	He was related to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u58	There are very specific cases of ‘Health’ and some other clinics. And that's not exactly where the ITH is. It is to receive a cure, which we may not be able to do in the time it takes, that is to say, an embolism in a public hospital, which is then transported with an ambulance in the EMCDDA. But I don't want to let a game evolve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u59	I'm saying this in good faith. Put insurance logs on. You're a minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u60	Our main aim is, firstly, to increase the beds of public hospitals, secondly, the beds that the private sector gives us under contract without the patient paying and the patient must be transported free of charge to these beds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the third debate under number 1582/30-4-2018 of the first-round question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christou Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: 'Two measures and two weights?' The Minister of Justice will answer Mr. Savvas Kontonis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on Sunday 18 March 2018 you declared abhorred and said you would ask for the Minutes of the trial in which the Metropolitan of Aegialia and Kalavryton Ambrosios was acquitted by charges based on anti-racist law. After a week, incidentally - and I mean that, as it has ten days to appeal - the appeal against this acquittal decision was properly brought. On Monday 19 March 2018, a day later, the Minister of National Defence was found innocent at the Monomele Chamber of Commerce of Thessaloniki on the charge of incitement to an offence, the widely known, i.e. inducement to lynch against a citizen and on Monday 26 March 2018 the Mayor of Oreokastro was sentenced to eight months in prison and a penalty for public incitement to violence. Why, Minister, so far you have not sought to consider both the minutes of the sentence against the Mayor of Oreokastro, but, above all, the acquittal decision of your co-government minister, who had urged the citizens of Halkidiki to lynch up a man? Of course, the ten days provided for by the law have passed, but since, in general, as you have said in public, it was not for you to intervene in the work of justice, but for interest and wonder why it was acquitted, why not do so to others and insist on and stop your interest only in Metropolitan Ambrosius?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I should first like to stress that the right of the Minister for Justice is not to ask for the rulings made by the courts. His right is based on the law's ability to exercise disciplinary control over judicial officers if he finds that there has been a misappropriation of the law or other matters which may be subject to disciplinary action. So the first thing I want to say is that it is not customary and I don't do it often ask for court rulings, unless something has come to my attention from articles or anything else, which can cause a possible disciplinary control of judicial officers. I would remind you that I had asked for the decision to annihilate the Sorra, which was even brought to an appeal by the prosecutor of Argos Ice immediately after the inspection I had carried out and, of course, the disciplinary procedure was initiated. In this case, I cannot understand and interpret what you say or may well say. You remember that in the trial of the Metropolitan, to which you refer, very serious things had been said during the hearing, which I wanted to see if they were included in the Minutes. That is why I asked for this decision because, as you know, the minutes of the trial are also incorporated. However - not by accident, at the request of the political plaintiff - the appeal was brought by the Advocate General as he has the right to appeal against the decision of the acquittal. Since this case is pending in justice, I have not taken any other action, precisely because I do not in any case want to see any action taken as an interference in the work of justice. Justice first judged, secondly, and the competent judicial bodies exercising disciplinary control may check whether the procedure was followed, on the basis of the Code of Criminal Procedure and, if all was lawful, if so. As far as the other decisions are concerned, I do not know if you are aware of something that constitutes a disciplinary offence, at least from what they saw the light of publicity in the daily, electronic and press press. I did not see anything, so I did not have any reason to ask for a Minutes. If anything has fallen short of your perception of these trials, I'd be happy to hear it. But at least at the journalistic level - as in one case, to the other two - there was no negative mention of a possible disciplinary offence to the detriment of a prosecutor or judicial officer. So I don't think there's any object beyond what I told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u65	Only disciplinary violations...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u66	That's all. And I want that to be understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I really didn't expect the Minister to say that his motives were simply disciplinary checks on a trial, since we know very well that the statements that may have been made by the Metropolitan - whether before or within the court - were not something that started there. They had taken various actions before, such as getting the Greek flag down from Metropolis and climbing the flag of gays, etc. That's where it goes, Minister, the whole thing. That's where all your interest was. Don't try to convince us it was just a matter of disciplinary violations. We know very well that all this is a matter of political idealism, which you have in your area. Try, in every way, to sell, to every component that exists within SYRIZA, something different, since your narrative - which was antimony - is over. You have persuaded all Members to vote for memorials, so you need such interventions, so that you can convince the world that you are going on and you are revolutionary. In the case of the mayor Oriokastro, for example, which you do not know, the mayor said nothing that was essentially epilepsy, simply agreed with the situation that I will report to you. We have had problems with NGOs and with thousands of illegal or smugglers - as you say - immigrants. What will we do if the state doesn't protect us? Are we going to take the law in our hands? The mayor, first of all, said: "Bravo!" So what's called the problem. The citizen feels he's in trouble and doesn't protect the state and the police. We're asking for more protection. What are we gonna do? Are we going to take the law in our hands? That's why he was tried. Minister Kammenos publicly said - there is the video and plays online - "lindsare him where you find him". Then he went to court, I don't know what he said and how he said it and he was acquitted. Your account begins and ends there. What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u69	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, my colleague has not added anything more to his second place. I explained to him that the competence of the Minister of Justice lies with a specific provision of the law and enables him to disciplinaryly control prosecutors and judicial officers if something has not been observed under the Code of Judiciary and, of course, the law. Everything else is an attempt to wash out here racist and extreme right-wing behaviors. I didn't actually get into what one of them said and what the other one said. That's a job of justice. You should learn to respect justice. What the courts decide is to respect. So one court freed Metropolitan, has appealed and secondly the trial and the other court sentenced the mayor, because he was prosecuted against him on the basis of anti-racist law, and the court found that he was guilty. What do you want to tell us? The Minister of Justice is not an Appeals Court or a Martian Ice. My work is therefore exhausted, as I have told you, if some illegal or irregular behaviour falls into my mind during the hearing. So convicted or acquittal judgments are a task of justice. We other things are under control, and I hope you understand that. But I wanted to tell you that these are not issues of conception, but they are matters of human rights and respect for the rule of law. Ideas are, Mr Colleague, defending neo-nazis, fascists and racists. That's an idea. Since we are having a political debate here, I tell you that I have abstained from taking further action on the subject of the Metropolitan, precisely because an appeal has been filed by the Prosecutors' Prosecutors and will be dealt with to a second degree. Justice will decide to a second degree, and the competent judicial bodies will also check the possibility of further infringements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u71	If he is acquitted, will you ask again for the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u72	You say something, which shows that you have no sense of reality. To ask for the Minutes, something will have to fall short of my perception. You're asking me about something that hasn't happened. How could you ask me about something that hasn't happened? The process can evolve smoothly and there is no reason to check any of this, which will see the light of publicity or something that will cause complaints and reach me. If there is absolutely nothing, then, the outcome of the trial is what the judges will decide and that is where it ends. Learn to respect justice and law decisions at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u73	Subsequently under number 1572-27-2018, a topical question by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The Temperature Conspiracy Authority - Special Legal Adviser for the Reform of Family Law". Mr. Comrade, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the main object of my question is the need to modernise some of the provisions of our Family Law, since in Greek law a specific one has been produced, I would say, a legal custom, which creates injustices and prolongs legal proceedings and is summarized in the title more or less "Privatization to the mother without any further condition". In more than 90% of cases, when the dispute between parents reaches the courts, the sole custody of the child is entrusted to the mother. In any event, it shall be severely cut off by judicial decision one parent from effective contact with his child and custody shall be removed from one of the two parents when he is separated. I am not looking at the case of gender here. One parent is actually abolished. The theory of conflict is on the grounds that if parents disagree, diligence must be removed from one. But here, unfortunately, the practice of the courts does not cease, but, if it does not, I would say that at least it causes the conflict. International and Union law is being ignored here. I would remind you that the Council of Europe, in its resolution in 2015, had explicitly formulated the principles governing the protection of the child, speaking of common parental responsibilities. Many European countries apply the common custody of children. In all international texts, the term 'parental responsibility' is now used, and therefore the terms 'parental care' and 'diligence' are almost obsolete. There is therefore a need to reform the relevant provisions of our Family Civil Law. The Ministry of Justice, here - let me make the assessment that it has acted in a contradictory manner. On 15-3-2017 an amendment was tabled by three members of the opposition entitled 'Equal treatment for parental care'. She was rejected. On 21-2-2018, a special legal committee was set up, by your ministerial decision, to revise provisions on Family Law, with emphasis on matters of care, communication and relationships between parents and children. A timetable for the completion of the committee's work was set in September of this year. So here, on the one hand, the Ministry recognises the need to reform the provisions of our Family Law, but on the other hand, the staffing of this committee creates an issue and makes us think that it has been done in a way that the nominated president has expressed himself publicly and in writing against parental care and the time-limiting of child care, on the other hand, and, in addition, - and this is important, I think - they have been excluded from the composition of representatives of scientific expertise, which could, in a way, bring their thorough scientific opinion on this issue - that is, pedophiliatricians, pediatricians, a representative of the child's lawyer. The question, therefore, is whether you intend to correct the composition of the Legislative Committee so that, among other things, experts can be included in order to obtain objective - as far as possible - and scientifically substantiated - a complete and thorough investigation and examination of this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. On this matter, I have repeatedly been placed at the National Representation, it is not even once or twice. It seems to me that it is coming back and, in a side-effected way, with the question of my colleague. First of all, I would like to say that the case-law of the Greek courts at an overwhelming rate of more than 90% gives both parents the right to exercise together when they have been divorced - because when they are together there is no subject - parental care. Cases are rare in the judgments of the Greek courts, which are defined by one of the two parents as exercising parental responsibility. Here we have to clarify a few issues. Parental care is much wider than custody. Parental care includes custody, administration of the property of the child and representation of the child. So when the marriage is broken down into court, because there is no parental agreement, the judge chooses, in the interests of the child, one of the two parents to exercise custody. In other words, all those necessities of a child's daily life will be decided by one of the two parents, from home to school, going, etc. There is a confusion here, and I understand that, because some confuse the legal concepts of 'parent care' and 'diligence'. I repeat that custody is subcategory. Some replicate improperly and erroneously certain legal situations that prevail abroad. It is mainly a substitute for parental care. That is why you also see a number of decisions which, in their translation, do not specify exactly the facts. I would therefore like to tell you that, not only does the case law render parental care to both parents, but in recent years there have been numerous judgments by the Greek courts, which give the applicant the custody of the father, of whether we have an interim measure or the plaintiff. That's not something that's unknown. Everyone in Greece knows there is a turning of case law. Be careful now to see how unfair you are, which goes up to the point where you are. You must also ask, indirectly, for an opinion to be sent to the House, that the members of the legislators should be kept in mind in terms of their scientific views, if they have expressed them, in order that they may be placed in a legislative committee. For you to know, Mr Papageorgiou, who is the leader of this committee, is one of those judges, who, as a former judge, has repeatedly given her diligence to the father. I say these things, so that you know them and not some people, who may have reasonable complaints not from the courts, but from the behaviour of their former wife, for example, that this will solve the problem. The problem will be solved in the way that has been initiated by the Government: the establishment of a legislative committee, which will address these issues, and particularly, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of communication. Because the problem, as some parents - fathers - who have a problem with their child is not diligent, is that they lack substantial communication. That is what the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights should consider. As I have said on several occasions in the House, it should be the right to communicate, which will be exercised by the other parent at all. He won't enter into a framework of interrogation between the wives, because eventually the child pays the broken ones in this case. And in any case, if it turns out that the wife is responsible for the incorrect communication of the child with the other parent, this should be a bad exercise of custody and be removed from it or removed from it. So these are the very serious issues, for which, in a very short time - you quite rightly said, 23 September is the end date - the Legislative Committee will have delivered its opinion. And on the basis of the procedures of the Legislative Committee, the Ministry of Justice will proceed in further discussion on the reform of the specific provisions of family law. I would like to say one last thing, Mr President. I would also like to inform you that the committee will not only discuss these issues within it, it will also call on those involved in this matter, whether they are collectives or experts, who will express their views as substantial and legal and generally scientific. There is no doubt that the Legislative Committee will do its job with a sense of responsibility towards citizens and against the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u78	Obviously, Minister, this is not a question of dispute policy here. I do not, of course, have any specific view to the specific court president of the legislature. Stay away from me. I have just expressed the view that a public official, who has a public opinion in favour of one, rather than another, could lead to the work of the legislator. That is what I would say it would be against those who should have such an instrument in terms of the objective scientific crisis. From there on, the fact is that the concept of parental care is the wider set, if you like. Subtotal care is both diligence and, of course, communication. When there is a distortion in the exercise or assignment of custody, but also in the conduct of one parent's communication with another, then obviously problematic is all we call 'parent care', in terms of how it is exercised, in fact. That is why I appreciate and express this assessment that there should be modernisation, restructuring - as indicated in your ministerial decision establishing this Legislative Committee - of specific provisions of our family law, that is to say the Civil Code, so that, if you like, this exercise of the rights of the two parents to children is equally guaranteed. Moreover, the Civil Code itself in Article 1511 - and I think that it should not change - clearly says that the decision of the court must, on the one hand, respect equality between parents and, on the other, - and that is the most important one - look forward to the interests of the child. When a parent, regardless of sex - could have been not the father, but the mother, as you said, has made such decisions - has been violently cut off from communication with the child, from exercising custody, which is actually all the big decisions to raise children, then in fact, does not guarantee the true interest of the child, namely, elements such as accommodation, communication, contact with both parents, so that it can form a comprehensive personality and no further injury to the separation of parents. In this light, the Legislative Committee must function, and since new conditions have prevailed internationally, the 'parental responsibilities' in countries which have a progressive mark on the formation of their own, national family law, I think that would be a direction that we should see in order to ensure the interests of parents and, above all, of children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, first of all, I would like to start by disagreeing with what my colleague has said. It is incomprehensible to claim that a well-established judicial officer, who had and continues to have an excellent course in the judiciary, will perform a control role - in the negative sense of the term - of a legislative committee. On the contrary, I told you about the particular judicial officer who is headed by the Legislative Committee and the decisions he has made in his direction not by the mother, but by the father of the child. I told you it wasn't one and two cases, but it was enough. Therefore, the objections heard about the person of Mr Papageorgiou, I think they were wrong but also based on a climate of suspicion, which some are producing outside this House. In the Chamber, however, such claims should not be heard. Secondly, I would like to agree with the remnants said by my colleague in his denunciation. I would like to stress, however, that the basic point we need to see today - and the lawyers have repeatedly found it before us - is to identify the problem. And the problem is not diligent, it is in the exercise and lack of legal shield of communication. Here's the problem. Communication should work in balance towards the right of custody. In other words, I think it is incomprehensible that communication should be limited to one or two weekends a month, one week during Christmas and Easter holidays and one month in the summer. This is not communication, I would say it is quasi communication, so that I do not describe it otherwise. So we have to see whether there are any real conditions for real communication, not situations which are primarily at the expense of the children and poison the relationships of these two people who have decided to end marriage cohabitation, especially when all this is at their expense and, of course, at the expense of the children. So let us identify the problem and solve the problem of communication, because I tell you again that there is no shield of communication in the provisions of the law. In many cases, you also know that this right is called into question - and indeed blackmail - so that other problems, for example, of an asset situation, can be solved. If we, with due seriousness, resolve the gap, which we all see exists, then we do not need to do much more. I explained that to a collectively formed and visited me. I promised them that the Legislative Committee will listen to all opinions and take all these issues into account. I would like to say, however, that since your position, I have not been able to have a clear picture of what your party says, about the right and about the question of conscientiousness. Because if he had a view in favour of conscientiousness he would have to have a provision in this direction every year. But it didn't happen right. That's right. It didn't happen. We therefore believe that the problem exists. The problem is identified in communication. And this problem will be solved immediately after 20 September, which will have been completed by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President of the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn and the Members of his party have tabled a proposal for a law on 'Privatization of the Greek flag' on 4-5-2018. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The second question, with number 1581/30-4-2018, will be discussed in the context of a second question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The need for an initiative to strengthen anti-crime policy following the recent multiple phenomena of violent crimes in residentials and the lifting of the unfair nature of victims' actions". Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I asked the Minister this question after two phenomena, which have been the last time in the Greek public opinion. One was the question of the entry of armed robbers into the house of Stamatiadis, which unfortunately ended up losing his life when he raised a small resistance. The second was the arrest of a super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Super-Superior. This has, therefore, created this concern, Mr President: on the one hand, if the provisions of the existing legislation - and I refer to the criminal law and its body - are enough to prevent acts of illegal entry, violation of dwellings and professional premises and, on the other hand, if the victims, who are forced to become victims with defence, are arrested and led to the suffering of prosecution. At the same time, wide-ranging publicity in recent years has brought all three successive laws under the present government, decongested prisons. In my own view and in my own mind, these laws need intervention, Mr President, towards the specialisation of those who are made redundant. Because as far as the decongestion of prisons is concerned, I cannot at least object to the principle. But I would ask for exceptions to be included, including those crimes that are being committed illegally in residences and shops, so that the citizens, who are today under threat, can also feel security, because the quality of crime is being changed. As a consequence, Mr President, I put the two questions in my question: Is there any possibility of tightening the sentences, not in the sense of general tightening up, but in those specific cases - may I say it legally - a presumptuous case, such as the entry of armed forces into a house, into a shop? At the same time, we must look for the way the victim does not become a victim. I'm talking about the super-season. This is where defence and defence are now being raised. Of course, I know that last week there was a debate in the House on the question by Mr Cremastino. I have heard the Minister's view. First of all, I will not disagree, but I would like to see supplemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the high school of Thinali Corfu. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, my colleague rightly said that a week ago - last Monday, if I am not mistaken - I replied to the plenary to a timely question from Mr Kremastinou precisely about the very facts that had taken place in the last few years. I would like to tell you first of all that the provisions of the Criminal Code in Article 22 and Article 23 clearly define the limits of defence, but they are referred to in the second paragraph of Article 23 of the Criminal Code, in which, even if there is an excess of defence, the perpetrator, who has exceeded the legal limits, may be considered to be unpunished. In fact, you will also know, Mr President, the Greek courts and the rich case-law that exists in this matter, have expressed the view that if, in the exercise of the right of defence, a person is in intense trouble and mental pressure, then he cannot count on the limits that place him in an area of overcoming the defence and is considered unpunished. I therefore believe that, as far as these two fundamental provisions of our Criminal Code are concerned, there is no need for any change at all. I also informed the House last Monday and Mr Kremastinos who was kind enough to ask these questions that the Legislative Committee, which is working on the draft - and has given it to me - for the new Criminal Code, does not change anything in existing legislation in these articles. The second thing I wanted to say to you is that you referred to the Act of Friday. The Law of Friday, as you quite rightly said - and I am glad to hear it, because so far we have listened to populism and easy criticisms - has been about the decongestion of prisons and a situation outside the limits that we received in January 2015. I am pleased that you have put yourself in a positive position. However, as was the case in 2015 and 2016, the Paraskevi Act has changed, after my own introduction to the Parliament and since September 2017, several restrictions have been imposed on the actual condition of dismissal. In other words, there are substantial differences in the case of offences which are excluded and in the case of the procedure to be followed for him, which is entitled under conditions of dismissal. You raise a matter here. You raise the question of further exemption of offences, combined with intervention in the private area of a citizen, whether this area is his residence or a shop. We will look at this after September, when this law expires. Firstly, we will consider whether it is extended, whether we will continue to have a conditional dismissal, and if we decide positive, we will also address this issue that you have raised. Mr President, I do not want to say anything else. I'll talk to my dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister. First of all, dear friends and friends, students and students from Corfu, let me tell you that you are following a parliamentary control procedure. In other words, Congressman Karras, asks the Minister of Justice, Mr Kontonis, how the government has to deal with criminal behaviour that has developed much more recently and the Minister is answering. An explanation, so you have a sense of procedure. Mr. Carras is now going to do his dentistry and the Minister will answer again. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u86	Of course, with regard to the second part of the defence, we should also open up a next debate, Minister, on criminal prosecutions. In other words, if we are going to follow the principle of legality, criminal prosecution in these cases, or if we have to take the initiative in legislation, and also in the introduction of forms, of principles of feasibility in the exercise of criminal prosecution, but I think that we should see this in a general context rather than in today's debate. So I am in the first part of my question, which I mentioned earlier, that we should see illegal entry as a pretext. Furthermore, I would like to mention this: to make a correction: in the 2015 law, there were indeed no exceptions. In the extension of the 2016 law, there were indeed no exceptions and this whole issue was created, with serious crime phenomena, due to malicious decongestion of prisons. Of course, and in the Act of 2017, there are virtually no exceptions - allow me - under the transitional provision of paragraph 5, where you say that, until the day of the law, which, if I’m not mistaken, was 20-21 September 2017 - the exceptions mentioned are not applicable, since they had the conditions of the existing dismissal. This has certainly exacerbated the problem, in the sense that we also have another deficit of anti-crime policy. You will also allow me, Mr President, to refer a reference to this point. The laws of decongestion, and I say first of all that they are good, unfortunately they cannot cover a matter. Firstly, the issue of relapse. In other words, if the prisoner reinvigorated the same crime as the one for which he was fired or committed another violent crime, even though within the law himself, he says that he should, within five years, exercise his sentence cumulatively. That is why, in five years' time - Mr Minister, you know better than I do - it is not possible to put an end to a criminal case and, indeed, a felony. Therefore, in the sense that the newest criminal conviction should have been made in order to lift the dismissal on the ground, it creates a form of immunity. The second issue that needs to be addressed - which, of course, is not a direct responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, I think it is a co-responsibility - is the issue of expulsion. Because they're fired on a term. There are judicial decisions that they order after the execution of the sentence, when foreign, immediate expulsion. It was right the other day - I am doing this parentheses - that the court judged the Turk, who entered Greece - and we set the example of the rule of law once again - that the resignation of the disputed media is immediately deported. And so he returned to his homeland and his family. However, the issue of deportations with decongestion laws, unfortunately, was left in a way to his fate - and I do not say this informally, I say this according to data I have seen here in a previous parliamentary control, namely 28 April 2017 - where Mr Toskas, Deputy Minister of the Interior, says that out of four thousand four hundred twenty-sixteen detainees, two thousand five hundred seventeen and only a thousand seventeen. So more were those who remained either incarcerated or free - and that is where they are now ignoring what behaviour they will have - from those who have been deported. To sum up, therefore, I think that if there is a legislative initiative, it should include in the exceptions and those of illegal entry into a home or shop, that is to say, private spheres. Secondly, we have to look at the question of how expulsion decisions can be carried out in the case of foreigners, because since the month or quarter in which they have not been deported, then we all understand that they cannot be held, released and roamed right and left, and it repeats the same acts because it has not - to say so - many choices. He's out of jail. I therefore think that this debate should be opened more broadly for this reason: we must not live on similar occasions. And you know why? Because there is no doubt in criminal areas that create an image of immunity. When it is not deported, when a relapse cannot be tried and lifted and the rest of the sentence of the first act for which it was laid off, we now have issues there. That is what I wanted to put, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, first of all I would like to inform the House that it was not just the case, Mr Carras, of the Turkish who entered the Greek territory, that he was tried and, of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u89	It's the recent one, that's why I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u90	There's more recent. Two, three days ago, the Administrative Court of Tower accepted the request to suspend the administrative detention against two Turkish citizens, who were arrested at the port of Kylini. There was a assurance from the Turkish consulate that they have stable residence and the Turkish consulate was declared in Athens. So the court decided to interrupt the administrative detention. I say this for the information of the House, but also for the information of the public, to understand that Greece is the rule of law, because when the Greek consulate attended the trial of the two Greek officials and declared the seat of the Greek consulate of Adrianoupolis to be their place of residence, such a request for non-reservation was not accepted by the Turkish court. Greece, however, is a rule of law and does not equalise illegal or irregular behaviours. We send this as a message, not only in the neighbouring country, but also in the global community from which we expect a more firm attitude on the issue of the two Greek officers, who so far do not know why they are accused. And that's the big problem. With regard to the questions you raised with your question, I would like to say first of all that there can be a view of the prosecutor who will put a case in the file.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u91	Rarely.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u92	Yes, but it has to be done. Because I also told Mr Cremastino that we cannot continue this responsibility, to prosecute a criminal prosecution with the second thought that these matters will be judged at the audience and that is where the defendant will be acquitted. Since the beginning of the criminal proceedings, the specific provision of Article 23(2) of the penal code will have to be applied and not see what we have seen in the last period. As far as the issue of surviving cases is concerned, you know, the courts are very strict. First of all, when we have homicide, you also know that a threatened sentence is of life imprisonment, life imprisonment. There is nothing more aggravating here in this case. In cases of physical harm or even robbery, the penalties imposed under this framework, namely that it was done in the private space of a person whose life and physical integrity were at stake - I say again that I tried to have an image - are particularly strict. Therefore, the penalty, as you know, is judged by the real circumstances of the offence. I therefore think that there is nothing more to be done here, and I do not think that we will have any effect. In the relapse of the law, it is clear: if a person is fired on the ground and a new offence is committed, it will not only serve the sentence for which he has been dismissed on the ground, it will also serve the sentence for the new offence, in which the previous sentence will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u93	If it's convicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u94	Sure. And that's how it should be. So I do not think there is any question of intervention by the legislative authority here. With regard to the questions you mentioned, in order to deport one must either be illegally within the Greek territory or the extradition procedure must be initiated. It does not mean that all foreigners are illegally in the country, so the expulsion procedure cannot be initiated, and it does not mean that all foreign prisoners or part of them are engaged in the extradition process. I would like to inform you that in most cases - I have no exception in mind, to tell you the truth - we have criminal prisoners who have committed serious offences in Greece and are accused of other offences abroad, following the creation of the sentence of the Greek courts, decide their extradition, a decision which the Minister of Justice has signed, because, as you know, the Code of Criminal Procedure is the last one to consider this decision. I think, Mr President, that as far as the issue of the situation in prisons is concerned, we are on the right track. It is no coincidence that we have been praised by the international community and by international organisations for what we have built for the past three years. Our course is close to European stables. Let me tell you that actions in Greek prisons are currently being promoted as examples of good administration and management of matters in prisons and foreign states. Greece has been particularly praised for structures currently in prisons, education structures, vocational training structures, decommissioning structures and, where we were the scapegoat of the Member States of the Council of Europe - the example to be used.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bourra and Mrs Papanatsiou, to read for five minutes the questions that will not be discussed and to go through your last question. They will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant foreign ministers: The second one under number 1575-27-2018 is the first question of the Member of Parliament's Chamber of Deputies of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Messology Camp Prospective" because Mr. Kammenos is in Jordan. The tenth under No. 1510/16-4-2018 topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Project for the abolition of the Business Department of the Igoumenitsa TEI and the operation of an Intercultural Communication Division in Igoumenitsa", because Mr. Gavroglou is abroad. Also, the first question under number 1571-27-2018, first question by MP Fthiotis of the New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Finance of actions from criminal actions against the Greek State and the disposal of funds for social purposes", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliarakis. It's because of the workload. The fourth under number 1557/26-2018, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Greek MP, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Conservation of the beneficial provisions of Law No.4368/2016", will not be discussed because Mr. Xanthos, because of a workload, cannot be present. The fourth under No. 1546/24-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Disclosures on CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health", will not be discussed because Mr. Xanthos cannot be present. The question of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriots to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "It is worrying to have an increase in measles cases", will not be discussed because Mr. Xanthos, due to a workload, cannot be present. The eighth Question No 1518-17-2018, on the issue of four million borrowers, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The fifth under No. 1538/23-2018 topical question for the Second Circuit of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “The need to increase military service”, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotius Kouvelis. The sixth question under No. 1539/23-4-2018 topical question from the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military commands in a party course of the KKE", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotius Kouvelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u96	How many are not being discussed and how many are being discussed, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u97	Such deferrals shall be provided by the Special Secretariat of the President of the Parliament. We will now discuss the third with number 1545/24-2018 a timely question from the Member of the Republic of Attica Mr Athanasios Bourras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An increase in the luxurious values of simple use of hayalus". Mr Bourrai's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou. Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard a large number of questions which are not being discussed, and from what I have seen five to six, and there must be too many questions that are not being discussed. That's not good. It is a contempt for the House, and that is all I want to say. On 13 March 2018, Minister, the Piraeus Islands and Western Attica Land Office notified the municipalities of its competence, i.e. those regions, the new redetermined lease value for using umbrellas and tables, in many cases more than 50% and more than 100%, as specified in my question. In particular, in the Municipality of Megaron, companies operating in the Aegean are invited to pay EUR 15 per square metre, when last year's price was EUR 10,34, i.e. increased by 50%. For businesses active in the Aegean Sea of the Municipality of Mandra - Idylia, the lease value for the beaches of Psathas and Porto Germenos is estimated at EUR 18 per square metre, while the remaining EUR 15 per square metre, when the municipal council had proposed EUR 7.50 per square metre and even on the eve of the great catastrophe. In other words, the decision sent to the Piraeus and Western Attica Building Agency by the Municipality of Mandra was taken November 14th. I got her here. And you know, on November 15, there was this great unprecedented disaster, which has folded and made the area a vast lunar landscape. Beyond the difficult economic situation, let us not forget, Minister, that several Western Attica municipalities have been declared in an emergency, following this murderous flood on November 15, 2017. This alone makes any increase forbidding. On the other hand, Minister, there should be an incentive to help affected entrepreneurs. Go for a walk in the areas where they're dead, give us a motive. Nothing! They should be relieved this year of paying. That would be a political act. Moreover, on the beaches of the above-mentioned municipalities, it is difficult to access the Corinthian beaches. I have done - it has not happened for you, Mr President - repeatedly timely questions about the state of indifference, about abandonment. We put two traffic lights that cut the cars, because they don't pass through a lane, climbing down, on the old highway of Athens - Thebes. You all know her, she's the one that goes through Kaza. It is the way the world goes to the beaches of Psathas, Aleppohori, Porto Germenos. And all these businessmen and all these people, the residents, at this time, beginning in the summer, are isolated. And they're invited to pay 100%. So much is in the Municipality of Mandra - Idylia the extra burden. Who's gonna go when he knows he doesn't have access and that he's gonna pay more expensive? So the area will be dead. After that, Minister, I would ask you to do everything possible - of course, I know what you will answer me and I will come back - so that there will be a suspension for this year of the payment of the operators' payments so that people can go to these regions, knowing that it will not be burdened with this additional, when we know of the very great economic crisis, and especially those in the Western Attica who are suffering particularly, who have been particularly vulnerable to national incomes, who are now hosting all the heavy industry with pollution and all the resulting problems that affect their environment. Through this catastrophe, the state, at least this year, which is also in emergency, should ensure that there is no increase, but rather a suspension of payments, so that our fellow citizens can go there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. The basic principle of our Government is that direct support for citizens affected by natural disasters, rainfall, floods, earthquakes, as has happened in many areas of our country. Among these areas were the municipalities of the Western Attica Regional Unit affected, unfortunately, by the fatal flood on November 15, 2017. Let me remind you that in addition to declaring the area in an emergency, the entire government staff have been guided by assistance and support from the wounded. The Ministry of Finance immediately proceeded with a decision to extend the deadlines for the submission of tax returns, as well as for the extension and suspension of payment of the certified and due debts due precisely to the severe weather phenomena manifested. In addition, by law, we made exceptional one-off payments in the form of an allowance to natural persons and businesses affected in the last four months of 2017 in different regions of the country, including the West Attica Regional Unit. We all realise how difficult it was, and in some cases it remains difficult, the situation in the West Attica. Our Ministry is always in contact with actors and local actors on too many issues. In fact, on March 13, 2018, the Piraeus, Islands and Western Attica Land Office notified to the relevant municipalities the prices for the simple use of saints, just as you put it in your question, based on the adjusted rent values of the saints. However, at the request of the Municipality of Megaron, which was submitted to our office on 27 March 2018, which raised the issue of the increase in the rents of the simple use of kaiyalos, but also the consequences of this increase, we moved directly, we gathered the necessary data and proceeded to an assessment of them. So, following an assessment of our relevant information and information, as we do on all the issues that come to our Ministry without any exception, I would like to inform you that the issue has already been resolved. In cooperation with the Secretary-General of Public Property, we revocationd the decision of the Piraeus and Islands and West Attica and the decision was made that the concessions for the simple use of hayaloo in the Municipality of Megares will remain at the same levels as last year's period, due to the extreme natural phenomena and disasters that took place in the wider municipality in November 2017. I'm going to continue for the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Buras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u102	Madam Minister, I will not say what you said at first, about what you have done and what you have not done. Go for a walk to see what you did especially in the Mandra area that was much more affected and for which you did not say a word and did nothing. However, the first things you said reminded me of that "strength through the engagement". Today I'm specific. I told you that I myself have asked the Minister of the Interior, Mr Skourletis, the Minister of State, Mr Spirtzis, for the others, such as the streams that have not been done, which are not done, because it comes after the summer and new winter, for the road that no longer walks, and can no longer go to these areas. And now you know what? You told me about 27 April. I have to tell you that I asked her on 19 April.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u103	On March 27th, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u104	I have the decision that you say the prices for the Great remain the same. It's 27-4-2018. If you want, take her. He's Mr. Patronis, who's the head of the real estate service. In any case, I would like to tell you that on 10 April we had Easter - 8 April we had Easter - the municipality unanimously made this protest and notified it to you and the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u105	27-3-2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u106	Bravo! I, as I have to say, have tabled a timely question. I will not criticise you for postponing it. We are now talking about 7 May and the question was identified to be discussed on 24 April. You were gone abroad. I'm not indebted to you. A topical question means a topical issue and a timely solution. In any case, I recognise that as one fact. As far as the others are concerned, you have not answered me at all. First of all, I don't think it's possible. I think that for at least this year the regions should be helped to attract some people to support this poor businessman, who saw his life disappear and his property disappear. It must be able to say that it is being stimulated for this year, and it will, in any case, save this enforcement, which will of course be passed on to the citizen. The citizen will pay for the umbrella. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] From that point on, I told you something: the biggest disaster in the region suffered by the Municipality of Mandra. I must also tell you this: I do not know if you had gone to the conference, what you were doing, when you were turning around like a triumph, in West Attica in December. Do you know what the Prime Minister said? In three months - I have the minutes - everything will be ready. The road will pass and everything will be ready. It's been six months and nothing has happened at all. So don't go there! I will return and say that for Mandra, but also for the Megarra, this year, this year, they will not be given because they are in an emergency. But you didn't say anything about Mandra, who is the one who suffered the whole disaster. The Municipality of Mandra - Idyllia, which refers to him, the beaches of Psathas, Porto Germeno and others, not to mention them. Nowhere! This piece of paper you said and invoked - I have it here - and the head of property sent it to me - I will submit it in the Minutes to see it - Mr Dimitris Patronis says, Madam Minister, "In this document the decision was made that the price of the mere concession in the Megaron Municipality will return to the same level". I would ask that they do not come back to the same level, but for this year they do not. For Mandra, you do not mention anything in general. [[At this point the debate is ringing again at the end of the speaker's speaking time bell.]] Mr President, I am a little tiring and I ask for your tolerance, but as I have seen - so long waiting - you have shown tolerance to previous colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u107	Your question, Mr Colleague, is the last question, but do not go too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u108	Madam Minister, I can repeat that before the bad happened the Municipality of Mandras proposed - not to you, in the real estate service - on November 14, 2017, I have the decision here, and on November 15, 2017, the great disaster took place with so many dead in Mandra. Do you know what's going on? Per square metre EUR 18 from 7,5 euros proposed by the municipality on 14 November for the two regions, Oporto Germenos and Psatha, and for the others, which are smaller, say, tourist value, 15 euros, or 100%. Previously, do you know what it was? A 150% increase. So for Mandra, you have not done anything, and so I would ask you to have your answer on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u110	First of all, I would like to point out that the topical question was to be debated on 30 April and not before, as you said. It was for last Monday and it was postponed because I had some obligations and I couldn't. So the decision had already been taken and I did not have recourse to not coming to the answer because I had nothing to answer you, as you have suggested.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u111	I made it on April 19th.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u112	On 19 April. However, on 27 March we received the letter from the Municipality of Megares and 27 April is the answer of the property service to the Municipality of Megares. On 27 March the question has been raised from the Municipality of Megarion to our Ministry. From that point on, I would like to point out in addition, as far as the beaches are concerned: there is, in fact, a great discrepancy in prices for the simple use of aegialos. The aim of our Ministry is to normalise the differentials and to streamline these prices more generally, in line with the tourist activity of each region, so that it does not seem unjust and incomprehensible to treat the saints, as some more tourist communities end up renting at a price less than those of lower tourist communities. Far from us to say that there really are no problems in Mandra. I said it in my first talk. Even now there are still problems in Mandra. Let us now look at this particular issue. In this context, and especially in cases where requests are made to us, we are coming to correct what exists. There is already a mandate for the competent property agency from which we are asking to rationalise what is happening to the Municipality of Mandra. I told you that the decision was made for the Municipality of Megaron, because exactly the request was made by the Municipality of Megaron. We have not accepted a request from the Municipality of Mandras. The granting of the simple use of the hayalus, since there is a great deal of traffic in the area and with the easy and rapid access we have and with the price we have imposed on these regions, we believe that we will be able to help professionals. From there on, our Ministry is here to support and assist the citizens and entrepreneurs affected by extreme weather and we will do what we need to do. As far as the documents you give me...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u113	I gave it to help you solve it. You can keep them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u114	That's exactly what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u115	For the Greats.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u116	We're talking about April 27th for the Grands. Also, with regard to your question on 10 April, to us the question from the mayor - which was also communicated to you - came on 27 March. That's what I mentioned before. They just coincide 27 March to 27 April. I think that with the actions that have also been taken on your part with the question you have asked for both the Municipality of Mandra and the moves of our own and the instructions that have been given to the Head of the Piraeus - Islands and Western Attica Building Agency, we will have harmonisation with last year's prices and with Mandra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u117	I have given these documents, Mr President, only to help resolve them. I think they'll be rewarding for you, Minister, so you can solve the issue for Mandra as well. And I would ask once again if you can solve it in total for both the Grands and Mandra, in order to give a breath in the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u118	What I told you at the outset is that 27 April was the move from the real estate service and 30 April I was going to answer your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u119	Okay, don't stand on it. You didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u120	So I wanted to tell you that I had no intention of not answering you. And our intention was to solve the problem when the request was made by the Municipality of Megares. I think there's an order...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u121	Bravo! And the Congressman, through topical questions, helps the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u122	You've done very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u123	So you know the issue and you can go further.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u124	Together we will help the people of Mandra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I was last, so I got a special favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u126	You helped us for delaying, so that the students, the visitors who came, could attend. Because, dear friends, you are a little late and you are here at the time of the end of the sitting. I'm just announcing you to know who's here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-six students and students and six trainers from the 3rd Municipal School of Katerini. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Welcome, even late, to the Greek Parliament. You will not be able to attend a meeting because we have just finished today's sitting. For us, however, it is a great pleasure to have you come from Katerini to see how the Greek Parliament works. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-07-S1-commons.u127	With the agreement of the House at 19.55 the meeting for tomorrow, Tuesday, May 8, 2018 at 11.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions", according to the agenda distributed.
