ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[Validation of Minutes: According to the Parliament’s 8-11-2018 authorisation, the minutes of the KG Meeting were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday 8 November 2018 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on minimum conditions for the promotion of the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and maintenance of supplementary pension rights (L128/1 of 30.4.2014) and other provisions’.]] On behalf of the House and on the occasion of the funeral of our murdered compatriot Northcontinent, Constantine Katsifa, I would like to express our sympathy and condolences to the family of Constantine Katsifa and, without any alibi, to condemn the murder of this man by the Albanian Police. If I have the unanimous opinion - because it is not provided for in your Rules of Procedure - your agreement, to keep a minute's silence in the memory of this particular man. Is there any objection? Oh, no. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Thank you very much. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Nikolaos Toskas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 9 November to 12 November 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First, let me tell the House on Monday, 12 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Tsakris to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Integration of the Pella Law in the First Zone for the grant of the Heating Oil Charge". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 127/5-11-2018 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Describe to the Overseas House of the State in the Dodecanese". 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘Procedure for the authorisation and retroactive taxation of online betting companies’. 4. The Question No 132/11-2018 by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of Law 128/75 on the relief of firefighting in Eastern Attica". 5. The Question No 136/6-11-2018 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 128/5-11-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary II of Athens, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the radio medicine. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 131/6-11-2018 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Yiannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Why does the Ministry of Finance refuse to answer for the rest of the “Molyviati Fund”? 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: “With tied hands to the Greek Police, while the illegality rises to Greek universities.” 4. The question by number 99/24-10-2018 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 5. The 110/29-10-2018 topical question by MP Larissa of the New Democracy, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'New outbreaks of marginal violence'. 6. The question by No. 101/25-10-2018 of the President of Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: “Conspiracy of Children”. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 68-16-10-2018 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek public and making available for social purposes". 8. The Question No 55/11-10-2018 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" is uncontrolled. 9. The 2/1-10-2018 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "An urgent violence was carried out by ELAS in the demonstration of Thessaloniki against the Prespecies' agreement." 10. The Question No 36/8-10-2018 by Congressman Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An overview of general government expenditure". Before entering the timely questions that will be discussed, I would like to inform you of the questions that are being deleted. We will not discuss the third question with number 121/1-11-2018 in the first cycle of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts". Nor will the eighth be discussed under number 74/16-10-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The planning for maritime education". We will not discuss the ninth question under number 53/11-10-2018 on the second question from the Member of Parliament I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Aid to the Port Body for the establishment of EEZ and the extraction of hydrocarbons and natural gas We will not discuss the tenth question under number 20/3-10-2018, by MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turkish challenging in the Aegean shall continue." Aristides Fokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Free movement of drugs at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. Finally, the fourth under number 117/30-10-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PA.SOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniatis to the Minister of State, on the subject: "Directly addressing the problems of Argolida GERFA - G.N. Franciscos - 2,000 producers, 400 and 700 workers in the air," will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr Alexandros Flamouraris. The questions to which the current Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr Gavroglou will answer will now be discussed. We begin with the first 125/5-11-2018 question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary State of New Democracy. Nikis Kerameos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Advocative and deep party choices for Educational Work Coordinator". Mrs. Keramea has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u5	Good morning and thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since you presented the new structure of support structures for the educational project, we have embedded your true intention behind this new scheme. In our view, this intention was no more than the party absolved of the administrative machinery of education. You have attempted this in two ways: first of all, with the introduction of the law which, for example, clearly predicted scientific qualifications, through their extremely reduced molecules. It provided an interview, which was mobilized at fourteen -14- molecules, as much as in all scientific qualifications. Crisis has been predicted by executives not to be made by boards but by regional councils, with presidents of regional training directors, but not only when the law was adopted, but also when the law is implemented, Minister. For example, the audit of supporting documents has been carried out, not as the law defines by the members of the boards, but by officials from the regional education departments and teachers. Inaccurate teaching facilities were given through the certificates of service. In the interview phase, we also saw the unprecedented, that moleculosis exceeded the limit laid down by the law, i.e. the fourteen molecules. Candidates with many, extremely scientific qualifications after the interview were found in the tables outside of options. Mr Minister, you have spoken of these procedures for the selection of new officials and you have described them as impeccable and objective. I would ask you, then, to do so. Firstly, what do you respond to all complaints from all over the territory regarding the procedures followed for the selection of training coordinators? What do you intend to do in order to eliminate the injustices found? Secondly, what do you intend to do to ensure the reliability of the process when selecting managers to cover positions in the other support structures of education? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u7	Ma'am, you should be a little careful when you use words. "Communal desolation", as you well know, is not part of our political culture. It is a political culture in which, not only you have excelled - not personally, obviously - but you have put it at the centre of politics for decades in that country and brought us to the situation that has brought us. So for the first time - and that is why you obviously did not vote for it, because it was threatening you - we said there were procedures, with which officials will not be appointed by the Minister, but through atrocities, they will become part of the administration of education, with more staggered - I think - for example, the regional training directors, breaking a tradition, if you like, many decades. That's the one. Secondly, do I not understand what your reproach is, namely, that they are headed by the regional councils which have chosen the training coordinators, the regional directors? What's the problem? Do you know the composition of the committee? The composition of the committee is from officials from universities, from people who I hope you do not think there is a general conspiracy to be party and therefore move on to what you have said. But I'm going to be the most serious. You say "The audit of the candidates' documents has been carried out not as the law defines by the members of the board but by officials of the regional directorates". Am I right to understand that you have taken over the defense of people who have not reacted themselves? And if you have such matters, such indications, please submit names and specific regions. The same unbelievable thing you say is that wrong molecules have been given. However, what I do not understand is what you are saying: 'In the interview phase, the moleculosis even exceeded the maximum allowable limit of fourteen (14) units, as can be seen from the comparison of the two tables before and after the interviews'. Apart from the fact that Greeks are incomprehensible, if you have specific complaints, I think you should go ahead, put them forward and not for reasons of impression to say such things. I say this because, with the law that we have passed, but also since we have reorganised in a scientific, but also administrative, impeccable way and in such a way that the world that is there will not be a package of party commitments, we bring a new day to self-assessment of school units, to support schools, to scientific and to support all these new forms of social support. There are institutions which I call on you to defend them both and not for reasons of party deadlock to undermine something that I think has been embraced by the scientific community and the educational community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and three teachers - their attendants from the 2nd Gymnasium of Argyroupolis (first section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u9	Mr Minister, I am particularly surprised that you are saying that I am talking about evidence that you do not know. I say this because, for example, I can tell you that only in the region of Western Greece has objectioned from 90% of the candidates. I will repeat that, Minister: Objections from 90% of the candidates! All this information I tell you has been placed in the public consultation. Visit the internet and listen to the candidates who have denounced specific incidents. To be specific, however, Mr Minister, I would like to say the following: you have spoken of impeccable and objective procedures. I ask you in particular: do you consider any impeccable and objective procedures in which moleculosis was not carried out by the selection board but by officials from the agency in certain regions? Do you consider it impeccable and objective the procedure during which certain dossiers were not checked at all? For example, in a candidate's question to a member of the council in the West Greek Region why were no molecules counted while the necessary supporting documents had been submitted, do you know what response the candidate received? That he hasn't seen the file at all and he couldn't answer it. In the region of Western Greece, the audit of the supporting documents was completed for all candidates at primary and secondary level in just one day, on July 26th. But, Minister, I will continue. Do you consider the case of a candidate who, after 15 years of exercise of responsibility, was not considered worthy of selecting the coordinator's post, while in the table of objective qualifications before an interview was fourth, in the scientific criteria he had 16.5 points in a total of 17 units and at random since the interview he was last visiting? But listen, Minister, and some indicative questions that have been raised at the interview stage. Question in the Region of Central Macedonia: Do you agree with the appeal of the Pan-Hellenic Association of School Counsellors to the Council of State? Do you agree with the letter from the Panhellenic Association of School Advisers to the CEDEFOP? These are questions put to the candidates, Minister. In Attica, question to candidate: "You have been a school advisor for 15 years. What else do you want?’ But, Minister, once again in the pre- and after-interview tables, I will give you an example of an educational sector in the IP86 before an interview of 15.1 molecules, after interviewing 31.08, i.e. an interview of 16.08 with a maximum of 14, Minister. I repeat, 90% of the candidates objected, for example, to Western Greece. One more thing, Minister, which concerns this process in itself, but also the effectiveness of the institution and ultimately the support of the school unit which is systematically undermining. The coordinators for service were presented at the Peloponnese PES, and since then, as far as I know, they have been missing. The regional director told them that they have no room for the new offices and that they should wait until they see what is going to happen. The same was the case at the Ionian Islands PEC in Corfu. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, I think it is clear that the procedures were only worthwhile and objective. Instead, they are for us a spot of indecisiveness, opacity, vengeance and partyism in the administrative machinery of education. For this reason, Minister, the New Democracy has committed itself that this law on the selection of training staff for the new support structures will be abolished by the New Democracy as a priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u10	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u11	You have committed yourself as a New Democracy so many times that you will abolish laws by priority, which I do not know what else you will do, if you ever come to things. I say this because it is not a policy to say'my policy is to abolish the laws of the former'. That's not how it works. Are there any positive proposals? Are you happy with the existing system? Are you pleased to be appointed by the Minister, in accordance with his own principles? To be fair, these people don't mean that everything has done a negative job, but, if you want, we should discuss a modern state where their public officials are made up in objective terms. That's what I understand from you. You keep telling us about objective criteria and merits, etc. and when it is about excluding your logic, which has been highlighting this party state for so many years, there you panic. And can I tell you something? If you have specific complaints made of illegality, there are procedures in which you can appeal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u12	He told you names!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u13	Why are you exterminating? The arguments do not require irritation, they need counterproblems. So I say that when you say that this official asked the official and the official said 'I didn't see the file', you are creating a climate which is neither morally nor politically legitimate. And I can say that I went there and saw that one, and that one told me this and that one. Please, be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u14	He objected, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u15	Whatever it is you will send it to me in writing and we will see what we can do and what penalties we can impose. But speaking of the press, my friend said that he was told, and so on, they are not part of a serious parliamentary procedure. Now, look, you're telling me - and I have no reason to question you - that someone had a lot of scientific qualifications and then the interview was not chosen. To accept the meaning of the interview, or do you want the interview to be a partisan filter, as used by your political party for decades? We say that if the interview should play a role, play a role, and we know from our experience that there are people who may be very well qualified, but when their presentation in the interview is taken into account, then perhaps these people cannot take the place they want to take. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So either the interview will play the role of a party filter or the interview will play an additional and complementary role in science. We say it's the second. And that's why, as you know, last year on the subject of school directors, we introduced the interview in a way that we're trying to decontamination from the incredible problems of the past, which we know were working on. I say, therefore, that we respect all the procedures. It is certain - I am the first one to tell you - that when there is such a large number of candidates somewhere there are problems and there are objections that people have made and will be examined. But we should see whether this architecture is an architecture that strengthens the next day of our schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u16	We move on to the debate of the sixth under number 113/30-10-2018 on a topical question from the second parliamentary party of Piraeus II, the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Great shortages of teaching staff in secondary education in Piraeus". Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, many are the gaps in the first and second of Piraeus, and in fact, the elements we present are from the official website of the Department of Secondary Education of Piraeus. Lack of teaching staff corresponds to more than three thousand hours a week. There's a lot of them. This number, of course, refers to the schools of general education I and II Piraeus, through the Argosaronic media, as well as special schools. In other words, if we want to translate it into a number of teachers, there are a hundred forty teachers missing and about two months have passed since the beginning of the school year. And, of course, they are not lost hours that may relate to second or third lessons, but to lessons that give full - time examinations and require infrastructure. Indicatively, we tell you that two hundred sixty-eight hours are lost every week in philology, a hundred eighty-five hours a week in mathematics, a hundred and a half hours in physics, sixty-one hours in biology, eighty-one hours in chemistry, and that list is not complete. I am referring to lessons to have a picture of the importance of these lost hours. Of course, this is the result of the aptitude of permanent teachers. So as to what you said that at the beginning of the school year we are in regularity, it is not true. So the hours are too long. Maybe the government wants to make savings, but not the students' backs. This characterizes anti-education policy, that is what the previous governments have done, and unfortunately you too do. We do not ask for the gaps to be covered immediately, but we demand that, Minister, we expect this to be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u18	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u19	Mrs Manolakou, thank you. At some point I have to understand the difference between "we ask" and "we need", which is a very dear expression of your political space, but let us leave linguistics for some other time. Look, in order not to get lost in numbers, citizens should understand what the problem is. The problem is that because of the crisis and the withdrawals of teachers - retirement mainly of teachers - but also of the positive measures that we have taken and therefore of the greatest requirements, the number of assistant teachers has increased. Deputy professors are a very important dimension of our educational system in so far as they do what the title says: They pay off some individuals due to exceptional circumstances. During the crisis, the assistant teachers began to act as a part of the school - and fortunately, because they kept many schools alive - which came and created a problem. What's the problem? The precise record of the gaps, namely what needs and therefore how many substitutes should be available for these needs. You know in our country about 15% of educational staff are substitutes, while in Europe they are around 3% -5%. So what I want to say to you is that, especially for the schools you are saying, from today -'so life has brought it', as they say - the world is already going and is taking office, because a week ago we received an additional funding for a thousand assistant teachers. The numbers are really shocking. The recruitment we made since 2016, before school began, was five thousand, fifteen thousand, and this year ten thousand. That was before school started. That's why we said that for the first time in decades we managed to bring a normality to school. Let me tell you that since 2011 the recruitment for special education, before schools started, was zero. And we did nine thousand this year before the schools opened. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So I say that he really wants attention when we say that the project is being undermined, if you like, or the intention of normality. Regularity won't come by pressing a button. Regularity will come by being able to solve many pathogens and, at the same time, be able to steer forces in a rational way and not, as has been done for many years, serving customer needs. For the specifics you have said, let us not disagree about the exact number, that there are these gaps. As I said, because of the thousands of new alternates we have received, the problems will be solved and they will be dealt with. And from today the problems of Piraeus have already been tackled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u20	Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u21	Minister, did you not answer me from now on: from the thousand who are now going to work, are there a hundred forty in total those who are going to Piraeus? Are these gaps specialities that they have in Piraeus? Because it's not that they're now starting, but what hours of teaching they've been lost these two months. You remember lost teaching hours only when they are in mobilizations and require teachers and infrastructure children and teachers. However, when they are undetermined, they are in unemployment and they are asking for real gaps, then you do not see the lost hours. The memorial school year began with the gaps you admit. Of course, nineteen thousand four hundred eighty alternates were appointed. But what are the deputys? They are flexible forms of work along with those who work for a few months as if they did not need the rest of the months and uninsured. However, if you satisfy the request for permanentization, which has twenty-five thousand, then there will really be no problem and every year there will be no gaps, because the need to permanentize teachers, where there are real needs - and you admit it - is not only in Piraeus, but throughout Greece. Here in Chios, when I visited her a few days ago, they gave me too many gaps. And not just. It asked that there should not be an increased number of pupils with regard to island regions. Moreover, apart from gaps, there are today and problems in infrastructure. I'm saying that because you need to see this. It is no coincidence that today there is mobilization in the streets for students. They will visit you at your Ministry today at noon and I would ask you very much to accept them. Why? Because they are asking for a school that truly forms, without discrimination, without obstacles, which will give full knowledge and will not be afraid. In fact, they are neither afraid of authoritarianism nor terrorism. And I'm telling you, because even in forms of occupation that some schools had, police were sent. This is not allowed and I expect you to condemn. We ask you to permanently ask the substitutes who are now also on the streets. Many ELME and IOC will be there today. Also, I ask you to condemn the fact that in ELME Piraeus the IMO went to carry out an audit in the management of the five euros that the teachers are assisting. Mercy! This is unacceptable and provocative. I conclude with what you have identified as a problem in covering gaps since the beginning of the year. Look, they've made announcements. It also happened this year. In various areas, including Piraeus, not all gaps were given. I'm telling you this because we also toured schools. What did that result, after the gaps were not given in time? Dozens of teachers and even some with serious health problems, others with several molecules, who have worked in these schools for years, are forced to move to other areas rather than to the first preference area. So do not throw them to the teachers, but see how these are organized at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u22	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u23	It is clear that Mrs Manolakou has raised all the problems, because she has nothing to say about covering the gaps in what has been mentioned in the first part of her topical question. So we agree that the gaps are covered there. The second is that after ten years for the first time, we have committed ourselves to making 15 000 permanent appointments within three years. One thing I want to know: Does your party consider that this is a positive measure or not? It may be missing, but is it good that, for the first time after ten years, we go to fifteen thousand appointments of permanent teachers, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u24	We voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u25	Did you vote for that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u26	We voted for it, but it's not enough, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u27	That answers the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u28	Wait a minute. Keep going. Don't ask questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u29	But I can't. I must also understand the way Mrs Manolaku thinks, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u30	Mrs Manolakou answers and we'll go to nine minutes. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u31	First of all, there was no law. You have obviously voted on the part of the budget, which has not yet come. So I don't know what you voted for. I have not read anything that says: 'Well, for the first time these appointments are made, we all try to make more'. I understand that. Secondly, you know, I don't want to denounce anyone, but every year there is this: they say we have so many gaps. In the coming year, due to the improvement of situations, we cover these gaps, then we demand that we have more gaps. How can gaps be increased every year when we increase the substitutes each year? Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u32	Students increase in school halls.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u33	Are students growing? Really? Unfortunately, your arithmetics are not very good at this matter. I'm on my way to third. We must not get into a populism'spend twenty-five thousand now'. This is not a request. That's a populism inexperienced...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u34	They're already substitutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u35	I hope you understand that the process between substitutes and permanent appointments is an extremely complex process. That's what we're gonna do. So the rise that says "now twenty-five thousand" does not fit into a serious party. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] On the next point, I accept that there are many shortcomings in infrastructure. You know very well that a large part of the responsibility is in the municipalities, as in the school committees. And this is where Stepma has called on the municipalities to tell us what their infrastructure planning is. The municipalities only say they have no money. I'm not saying they have infinite money, but they've been given. It has been given by the "PHILIDIS" programme recently, they have been given before. The municipalities must have a responsibility for something they themselves claimed. Here, then, I think that the political parties should force the municipalities to be consistent with their obligations. It's quite a few municipalities. But too many aren't. I have many examples of the school committees, several of which do not want to take the initiatives they need to take. But I don't want to take our time for this. I say stop this little cat with the entire education that the government is accused of not providing. Do you have any more experience than graduation III? Do you know that we're a country without graduation? Do you take the responsibility of continuing things as they are? Because that's your proposal. Your proposal is "don't move anything, it's fine."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u36	You're misinterpreting. We have a specific proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u37	I'm not misinterpreting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u38	You're short, Minister. You've spent a minute and a half of your time. And we have ten more questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u39	It's not ten. They are fewer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u40	How isn't he? Mr. Stathakis has one. They're not just yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u41	Excuse me, Mr. President. I thought you were talking about mine. What I'm saying is that I would ask your party mainly, which here has a huge responsibility, to read our proposal for High School III, to see that, for the first time, free access is given, the rehabilitation upgrade, fewer courses with more hours, and the circular studies are completed at the end of the second grade, as is done in many successful educational systems. So don't come here today, and we put it as a matter of fact, because there won't be some general high school courses in the third grade when they're disgraceful. And they're not disrespected by teachers, but by an entire social depreciation system of the third grade. I invite you to be able to re-establish High School III on her feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u42	We support the mobilisations of students, teachers and parents today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u43	We move on to the second with number 135/6-11-2018, topical question by my fellow Member, Atolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, on the subject of "For the operation of the Business Administration Department in Lefkada". Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u44	Let us see, Minister, if there are gaps here or if it is populism, as you said earlier. The cohabitation has led to despair, at tragic dead ends, about five hundred students and their families at the Ionian Islands TEI. They are four hundred students of previous years and 100 this year of the two divisions operating in Lefkada. All this is the result of the policy of the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence which has proceeded with the TEI and IEI mergers with a clear aim of sub-financing, categorizing and multi-divisioning. Your intentions are clear, Minister. How you will ensure the savings of resources, financial benefits with the so-called collection of schools, as well as better adaptation of studies, specialities to the needs of capital and not to social and scientific needs. This also serves the coexistence with the merger of the Ionian Islands TEI with the University of Ionian Islands. In the new scheme created there is the TEI Tourism in Corfu and the Regional Development TEI in Lefkada. The old management department operating in Lefkada was abolished. It was not among the departments of the Ionian University, while, as you promised, it will continue to work until the students who are already in this department are finished. As well as the tourism section that was transferred to Corfu, and was first in Lefkada. It will continue this department until the students are transferred there. And don't tell us that, you know, they'll have the possibility of time, or I don't know when, when the Tourism Operations Department works in Lefkada, students can go there. In Corfu, as in Lefkada, Minister, there are no student centres. Especially in Lefkada, there has been no starting point in the operation of the TEIs. And in Corfu, things aren't so good. Of course, it is not easy to move students from Lefkada to Corfu, because there are several students living in neighbouring prefectures that are easy to access Lefkada, such as Preveza, Aetolakarnania, Ioannina and Artas. Apart from that, they have also created some conditions because there are too many students, because there is a total lack of housing in Lefkada, who are forced and working. They are children of the people's families and for them you and the previous ones are making the right to education and education an extremely expensive commodity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Moraite, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I shall conclude. That's why they're forced to work and study at the same time. Many of them have actually had to give up their studies. We ask you in particular, Minister, because there are only two teachers who have been lost in teaching hours and because there are no laboratories: will the recruitment be carried out so that these two departments can function? Nor do they receive any papers, because there is no management committee and they cannot get either feeding cards or attestations of study. This is a tragic situation, Minister. We tell you all of this to answer specifically whether measures will be taken to ensure that these departments function properly so that the students complete their studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u47	Good, thank you. I would ask that there be restraint in times. I'm pointing to tolerance, but not to triple the time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u48	Look, your partners should be a little more careful when drafting these kinds of interventions, because at the moment you have referred to and built a problematic one on the fact that there are no staff or that there are only two people. It's not two, it's eight people. It's four times more. That's first. Secondly, academic scholars have been hired to gain academic experience with the funds of the NRP. So don't bring the disaster. It doesn't help you either, but it doesn't help the image you want to project, that everything is for throwing. It is obvious that you want, as a party, to defend everything that is there not to change things, because you have created a climate and a public word against an effort to upgrade higher education. You said you were wrong to mention that it is a combination of TEIs with universities, because they are new cognitive fields, new departments in universities, two-year structures, synergies of the TEI departments with the universities, precisely because we discovered terrible problems with the existing academic situation. So are you to upgrade, yes or no? Or don't you want the TEIs to be involved with the universities so that in future there will be the universities and the TEIs which are extremely weak and cannot enter the universities will have completed their historical cycle? These are questions to which you must answer quite clearly. Now, you know - and again there, unfortunately, your partners seem to be not very aware of these issues - that no child who is today in any part of the TEIs, which either in four years' time is either deleted or integrated into a new section, will lose neither his professional rights, but above all he will have no problem in completing the studies. In fact, when completing the course, he will have the discretion to receive either a TEI or a university degree, with additional courses he will receive. So I don't understand exactly what the problem is. The secretaries are working. There is this transitional phase which is fully clarified. This section has had several weaknesses from the past and we are trying with the new situation and to upgrade it and to be able to cope with weaknesses. So I do not understand exactly what the question is. Because for the staff, I've answered you. As far as housing is concerned, it's right. There are problems which cannot be solved in three or five years' time. We are in a process of resolving a situation that we inherited, with the lack of outbreaks. On the other hand, of course, we give huge sums to student care. We give 43 million in housing allowances, food, books, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u49	Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u50	Minister, according to your best practice, you are not answering the questions. You are resorting to anti-communism. But I'll tell you in particular. Answer, Minister. As far as the staff currently present at the Lefkada TEI are concerned, is there enough? These are the questions in particular. Have they been lost in teaching hours? Is the secretariat working? He's giving food cards? Are there studies attestations? Nothing works, Minister, and I don't know if you're well informed. I visited this TEI, and I know exactly what's going on. To all these questions we ask you to answer. The main thing is to answer whether there will be a proper functioning of the TEI, of the two departments, which are completely abolished and the other is transferred to Corfu, and whether these children can continue their studies. Now, to get to Corfu, which is the seat of the Ionian University. And there, beyond Lefkada, it's an inappropriate dream as far as housing is concerned. There's no housing. And we're talking about a tourist area, which is expensive, and the rents and students are forced, I told you earlier, to work to get through. That is your policy, and that is memorial regularity. What you are not saying is, of course, that you are committed to your creditors, your partners, to the European Union's anti-linguistic, anti-educational policy, to apply the Memorandum Law without delay. We told you that this whole situation is being made to save money, because you see, precisely, the education of the people's children as a cost. All that we have said earlier is true, Minister, and you have not given any specific answer. This situation will deteriorate in the next few years. And that's not really what we're talking about, that's evidence, with numbers. Because this TEI does not actually work, too many students started and quit. We asked you a question about the Ionian University a while ago and you didn't bother to answer it. And there is no housing. And there you take them to some contract hotels that start at the beginning of the summer because there is tourism. They're forbidden to operate the laundry, to run the electrical utensils. For a hundred and fifty students, if I remember correctly, there are only two laundry machines. Therefore, it is a dramatic situation, if we say that these students, the students, will be transferred to Corfu. Also, they pay tickets to Corfu. This is another serious issue that we have raised you with another question and you have not answered it. We say clearly that this is the future you are preparing for the youth, the free education you are working on. In view of all this, we call on the youth, the people's movement and the Ionian Islands to take the case in their hands, Minister, because that is the only way they can do it. Organize their struggle against the anti-population policy of the government, the European Union and capital. It is this policy that breaks rights of workers - people's families and life and education. That's exactly what's going on. And they really need to fight for the education of the people's needs, as is the case today. And we tell them clearly not to do - and they will not do - back in front of terrorism and criminalisation of the struggles. Minister, the inhabitants of the island of Lefkada expect specific answers. This is a really tragic situation at the TEI and you know it very well, regardless of what you are trying to present here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u51	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u52	I hope that when you send your speech to the citizens of Lefkada or Corfu, the Ionian Islands, you will also include my answers. Look, I'll tell you about the housing issue. In Corfu there is a very serious issue, indeed. We call on the municipality to take initiatives, precisely because the municipalities are legally obliged to contribute to this, as are the Deputy Professors. Secondly, the hotels should, in the context of a social responsibility, also deal with this issue. I told you and I'm telling you again. You do not want to think about it, because you obviously do not want to denounce the policy of the New Democracy for so many years and the PASOK. What about the billions that went through their hands and didn't do some human fountains? You're saying all this project we're doing with the universities and the TEIs is to save money. Look, if you'd like, I can out of procedure tell you other arguments. But how can we save money when we are committed here to this House for a specific number of new posts and new funding? This is also recorded in the new positions that we give and in the funding that we give. There will be an increase in funding for universities this year. Of course, you'll tell me that we can play the capital game in a strange way that I can't watch. But you can't say you're doing this whole project to save money. This was done by the New Democracy with the "Athens" project. Do you remember it or don't you remember? That's not what you're talking about right now. That's what you forgot. It was what destroyed the technological education that my colleagues here have been reminding us all of. Some things were destroyed because of certain policies. So we're trying to set up some things. And I would really like you to monitor both the funding and the number of new posts. But look, there is one thing we need to be clear about. Last Saturday I was in Corfu to inform parents and guardians about the third grade. And there was a occupation of the Labour Center, where the event was to take place and it could not be done. Do you welcome that? Do you welcome the exclusion from informing the citizens of Corfu by force, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u53	When it is done in terms of the People's Movement, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u54	Let it be done on movement terms. It's a democracy forbidden...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u55	On the question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u56	I respond exactly to that, because before my colleague referred...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u57	When there are terms of the People's Movement...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u58	Do you hear what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Moraite, don't waste time for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u60	Excuse me, can you hear me? Do you welcome the exclusion from informing the citizens of a place by force, yes or no? You know that these in your party's history are extremely problematic and still the Left pays them. Our Left pays them too. And that's what we need to get rid of. Here, then, clear words. These things have no place in the democratic movement, no end!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u61	We move forward with the fourth with number 134/6-11-2018, a top-level question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Lacks of teachers in High Schools, Lyceums and Professional Lyceums (EPAL) of the Regional Unit of Halkidiki". Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, he's November. It's two months since schools opened up and we're talking about shortages of teachers throughout the education range. And I think - from what I have heard - that is not the first question that is being debated today about shortages of teachers. My question, which concerns you, concerns Halkidiki and the very great shortages of teachers who are there particularly in secondary education. The question, of course, you have it, is in front of you. They are missing philosophers, mathematicians, physicists, chemists, biologists, teachers of German, trainers, artists and a series of specialties, almost all specialties throughout the entire range of secondary education in Halkidiki. I think it is a typical example of the fact that the situation has not improved and is particularly acute - about the issue of the shortages of teachers I am talking about - and despite the fact that it focuses on Halkidiki, I would say that it is a micrograph of a more general situation that applies to all schools in the country. Of course that has reason and cause, it is not because there is incompetence. It comes as a result of a wild, class policy, which has constantly insisted on all recent years with even more tension to finance education, which now operates on its limits both in terms of its infrastructure and in terms of teachers. So the question is simple: What are you going to do to fill the teachers' gaps in Halkidiki with permanent appointments - I remind you - and not just?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u63	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u64	Mr Delis, you were gone before, perhaps you have heard my answer to Mrs Manolakou. The general answer, but I'll answer it again. For the first time in the last ten years, so many assistant teachers have been recruited before schools begin. Recognize this as something positive, yes or no? I do not understand the proposals you are making, because the proposals you make imply that there is a magic button that can be pressed and solved all the problems. It's not like that, and you know it better than I do. I understand the opposition speech, I understand a lot of things, but that's not the point. The question is, if we want to help training on the ground, to see the real gaps and to be able to deal with them. As you know, from yesterday and today and Monday, there is the allocation of the thousands of new appropriations that we have received and move on to cover all these gaps. What I do not understand - that was the problem with my colleague Mr Moraitis before you - is to say that we are doing all this because we want to save money. How can we do all this to save money every year when we do more recruitment, when we announce 15 000 permanent appointments, when we increase funding - before I said specific numbers - for the TEIs and the universities? We can't do it for savings. So what we are saying - and I call on your party to be involved in this - is that we must be clear about the exact number of gaps so that we can tackle them centrally and finally get into regularity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. You said, Minister, that for the first time so many alternate recruitments were made at the beginning of the school year. We have no reason to question that. You will, however, agree with us that for another year there are still gaps all these months, two months after schools have been opened. And, if you like, these continuous recruitments that the Ministry has made gradually since September and October, but also November, reveal this, that the gaps have not been filled with the original appointments of the deputys. So should we agree on that that there are still gaps today? You talked about the thousands of intakes in secondary education. Because we searched for them and saw whether they are Halkidiki, we saw that there is an intake - the number is a 1-machine teacher for secondary school schools, for high school, high school and for Halkidiki's PSA. But I did not tell you the number of gaps. I can read to you the schools and high schools that have gaps. We are talking about dozens of philosophers and mathematicians and teachers of all specialties, which are not covered and these gaps continue and remain. You have also referred to the exact number of gaps and I think that this debate has a value. In fact, on what criteria do you find the gaps? What are the criteria with which the Ministry announces the gaps and defines which gaps are? Isn't it the number of students to be twenty-five plus 10% or more? Is it not that today too many schools in the country are being destroyed even this and we have sections that have over thirty students and not just in the areas affected by the earthquakes lately? Is it not precisely that in this logic your government for a third consecutive year has abolished a few sections - so has it been baptized - in the ESDP and also in the general high school guidance groups? If, therefore, you have found the way through and by merging schools, in and out of divisions, in and out of schools - because these are happening throughout the whole education - to constantly reduce gaps, this does not mean that there are no gaps in reality and that these needs are not compressed and do not concern the education needs of children. We have a completely different understanding, Minister, of how the gaps will be covered, of how the gaps will be defined. However, in order to answer what you said just now, because I was present at the question, because the JRC is not interested in changing anything in education and wants to remain all the same, I think that you are conscious of a distortion of the positions of the Communist Party, whose opposition to the reactionary changes, which your own government is moving on and on restructuring, does not mean accepting the current situation. Our opposition results from the defence and promotion of the positive proposal we have on education, Minister. And she's been announced for two years and you know her. It is the unified 12-year-old school of modern general education, where all twelve classes of this school will have acquired that essential content that a man needs before being led to the choice of his profession and before he comes to life. That is the essence of our proposal and I would ask you not to twist it at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u67	We're closing up with the Minister. Mr. Gabroglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u68	Mr Delis, I am pleased because there is evidence of agreement between your findings and ours. Who are these? That there is an increase in subservient recruitment, so lowering gaps. Every time it's better because we found chaos, an incredible mess. So the arrow is in the right direction. Are there any problems? I'll tell you more than you tell me. Alas, if they didn't exist! Are we even trying to do what I told you before, that we have still received a thousand credits, so that we can deal with them? The answer is yes. In the end, will we have the largest number of recruitments that have been done for many years? The answer, too, is yes. Will we be able to settle this even more with the recruitment of permanent teachers, which is the solution? Because the solution is not to base a system on substitutes, but on permanent appointments. The answer again is yes and for which, you know, for permanent appointments, there is one unfortunately, I would say, guilty silence from your party. Now, look, the proposals you have for school are impressing on their generality and, of course, the more general something is the more true it is many times or the more false, but it does not have the intermediate modulation. Indeed, you refer to the twelve classes. I hope that within twelve is not preschool.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u69	The 12-year-old school.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u70	At the 12-year-old school, where again on the issue of two-year-old pre-school education you remember that you had one difficulty and did not vote on it. But what I would like to ask you is this: why do you not commit yourself to an import system at university? Do you like the present, where families spend EUR 2.5 billion on every batch of candidates, where knowledge has been algorithmed, where children have thus canceled their attendance at school, despite the efforts of teachers? It is easy to say that general education goes up to twelve years. We say that it will be up to eleven, and that the last year will be a preparatory year when lessons do not mean that they do not provide general education. We have a certain way of getting the kids in with the vending room only. To accept that this is an important step, to enter only with the degree of the dismissal, which is the first time called the simple Greek 'free access'? I think the next step in the normalisation of school life should be the gradual reduction of pupils by class. That's clear. But that still has to be done on the basis of a programming. It cannot be done by ministerial decisions and laws again to be on a dead end. Therefore, permanent appointments must be combined with changes in the number of children in the classroom, so that the educational process can be more substantial every year next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u71	We move on to the seventh with number 90/23-10-2018 topical question of the second-round question of the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Dues to teaching staff in Secondary Education in the Law of Halkidiki". Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Today Halkidiki has its honour and its shortcomings in education in Halkidiki. Minister, this year's school year began once again at SYRIZA Government - ANEL with very good prospects, following the coordinated effort of the Ministry during the summer. This has resulted in - it has been heard before that the gaps are mostly in secondary school, not mainly in secondary school, but only in secondary school - primary education, at least in the Halkidiki Prefecture, as I can tell, not just to have gaps, but to be overcrowded and to function in the best way it has ever worked. However, in contact with the Department of Secondary Education in Halkidiki, there were shortcomings in teaching staff in high school and high school schools. I'll say the gaps exactly, Mr. Delis didn't mention them before. They are three philosophers, eight full-time mathematicians and three reduced-time hours, a physics teacher, a full-time chemistry teacher and a reduced-time chemistry teacher, three biology teachers, a German teacher, a teacher of artists, four full-time music teachers and two reduced-time mechanics -- this engineer you said that the vacuum was covered was, one was covered – a professor of electronics and a teacher of informatics. I then ask whether the Ministry intends to proceed to a second phase of recruitment of assistant teachers so that these gaps can be immediately filled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, if I had time to sum up what Mrs Iglezis said is twenty-nine requests. So we need to see now how many you'll cover for twenty-nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u74	If I said twenty-nine in the 20th and sat down, I'd be fine. Mrs Inglezi, as Halkidiki said today for some time now, she has her honour. There are indeed the gaps to which you referred, which will be covered next week because of the exceptional appropriations that we received a week ago with an amendment that was voted on in Parliament. However, it is important for citizens to understand that these gaps are empty that are created at the beginning of the school year with many times legal permits for educational or disease. They are not gaps which the Ministry has known since the beginning. So there are gaps that know them from the beginning and there are gaps, which in the meantime arise. That is why we must always have a number of credits for substitutes to cover these exceptional gaps. However, since next week these will have been covered. As I said to colleagues before, we think this is the first time that so many assistant teachers have been hired before the start of the school year. You said that for schools, especially for the schools you mentioned here are secondary education specialities. Of course, in the long term, the way in which these problems can be solved is with the permanent appointments, which you know after the Prime Minister's announcement of four and a half thousand in special education, announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, and which has the corresponding budget line, we shall proceed with these appointments and in three and a half years we will have fifteen thousand more, that is, ten thousand more in general education. It is therefore one thing that will be smoothed down at the end of the three-year period with permanent appointments and, of course, until then with all the improvement measures that I have mentioned in the previous questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u75	Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. I recognize the valuable effort of the Ministry of Education that school units will operate throughout the country with all teachers and teachers in their place from the first day and with all the books available, It is true that the situation has improved spectacularly over the last school years in relation to what was happening in the past, which students were taught through photography material and gaps were much later than the beginning of the school year and usually never. I hope and wish that with these thousands of positions you have just announced, and with the amendment that has been voted on, all the vacant posts in Halkidiki will be filled. I recognise that these gaps are created by the reasons you have also mentioned. But we have to look at it a little, so that this bureaucracy - I would say - does not cause problems in the teaching process to students. Already there are some reactions from parents and schoolchildren, where there are major problems, with preoccupations of students and reactions on the part of parents and guardians. Both SYRIZA Government and your Ministry have shown that it emphasises the public nature of education and the quality of the services provided through it. This publicity and the quality of services are crucial nowadays, as the financial difficulties faced by many families do not allow them to support their children outside school, which should not be done anyway. Minister, I recognise your Ministry's very important effort to upgrade public higher education and to set up and strengthen regional universities. In Halkidiki, however, Minister, we did not ask for a university. We have two excellent universities next to us in Thessaloniki. What we are asking is the possibility for Halkidiki pupils to enter universities on equal terms, which cannot happen when teaching hours are lost from a lack of teachers in secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u77	Minister, I think you have answered. Of course, you have the right to take the floor in addition.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u78	I get the hint. I'll finish very quickly. Two comments I want to make. The important thing is to see whether the arrangements that we are doing, the measures we take and the reality is in one direction that each year is more improved than the previous one, because you know that the issues of education cannot change from one day to the next. We are convinced - and they even testify to this - that things are much better this year than last year, last year were better than before, and that is very important. Secondly, I would ask you - but also because of your public position - to try to convince parents that being few children in a class of teaching is not good for children. Many times we have reactions from parents to continue sending staff to classes of three, with four children. There are problems in our country. Geography in our country is a political category, it is not such a simple matter. Nevertheless, it must be convinced that there are very few children in one class who are unintentionally working in children, because many times we have problems of this kind. I am simply saying this as an addition to the debate we have just had. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u79	Next is the first question by number 2023/1-10-10-10-2018 question by the Member of the Ilias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "The Charter of Higher Education in Elia". Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you too have the bad habit of government members not answering our questions. On 24-5-2018 I tabled my question about the Department of Music at the Tower. On 6-7-2018 I tabled my question on the map of higher education. I put it back on 1-10-2018, you didn't answer, I turned it into a timely one. I think at least today you're going to give us some answers. Minister, Mr. Tsipras at the Regional Conference of Patras on 6-2-2018, since he had nothing else to say about our country, announced that you will establish a university cultural school in Elia with sections in the Tower and Amaliada. Welcome to the proposal, as, as you know, the ancient Ilida is the birthplace of the Olympic Games, the Municipality of Amalada has been renamed to a Municipality of Ilida and next to us is Ancient Olympia. But there was a huge confusion about what will happen to the three TEI departments operating in Elias. Elia, unfortunately, was excluded from the map of higher education. He had no school either from the University of Peloponnese or from the University of Patras and came to PASOK in 2003 to establish sections of TEI at the Tower and Amaliada for the first time. Especially with regard to the Department of Geologists in Amaliada, which was the result of the "ATHENA" project, as then the Ministry's political leadership heard our arguments that Elia is mainly a rural prefecture, that next to us is the Institute of Koriv - which has research, studies and forged seeds and is therefore offered to link education to the development of production and applied research - it founded this section, which is going very well. This is evidenced by statistics on the rise of ratings and the demand it has for students. You have rushed to entertain the concerns of both the municipality and Members of Parliament that there is no such matter. Recently, however, your visit to Messolonghi, the lecturers' suggestion and the fact that we still have not seen in the light of publicity the consultation plan on what will happen in our region, in Western Greece, in relation to universities and TEIs, have created reasonable concerns. So I invite you today, to the extent that you can, to the extent that you can tell us what your plan is for the map of higher education in Elias. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of thirty-four students and students and two teachers attending from the 2nd Grammaroupolis High School (second section). The House welcomes you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Koutsouko, I am impressed that we are almost against every phrase you have said and I do not know where to begin. First of all, we need to consult each other about who decides on the future of higher education in our country. Your own governments and the post-cooperation governments have had a very simple answer: everyone decides, except those concerned. They were the mayors, they were the metropolitans, they were the local players, they were the state of interlocutory. The academics played a role? Zero. This is something we need to overturn for the good of the country. It's not for the sake of any government. It's for the good of the country. Academics happen to know five things more to make suggestions for historical and pragmatic reasons. The political decision is taken by the political leadership in question. We therefore need to take the issue of higher education from deadlocked localities. Are we going to come up with this, or are we going to start again the same things that have brought us to the situation that we have been brought to us? This type of problem, this type of'revenges' - in infinite introductorys - is the ones that have brought us to a dead end. You say the PASOK came and almost solved all the problems with the TEIs and the universities. This is where, of course, the tons are falling. Because PASOK came in, made parts in various cities because of customer relations, left them without teaching staff and funding, and then we wonder why it is so badly quality. That's what we're going to change. You said the department came to Amaliada. Do you know where the station came from? From Messolong. Have you visited Messolong? Have you seen how the buildings built with taxpayers' money are devastated? They are seizing these buildings because political games have been played. That's it. So we put an end to it, even if there are terrible resistances from the whole system, which has led us where it led us. With regard to the specific issues you raised for the Amalada TEI, the section that exists in the Tower, the TEI of Aetolokarnania - that is, that of Western Greece - the Prime Minister announced that we are going with a plan. There's a committee studying them. I would ask you and us to respect the committee and let it finish its work. The Committee includes people from the University of Patras, from the Western Greece TEI. Let people first bring us their findings, as we have done throughout Greece. We have done the same in the Ionian Sea, the same in Epirus, Thessaly, Central. So please let the academics tell us their proposal. Otherwise it makes no sense, because it will be undermined because of local conflicts. We say that academic criteria should be applied, that the proposal should come and that we see in this proposal what changes can be made to the good of local communities. We are not opposed when it comes to the good of local societies, but you know that there are departments, research institutes, two-year curriculum. University education will no longer be like it used to be, a department, and nothing else. The quality of certain parts, too, I think, needs very much attention, because the problems we have discovered and obviously were problems of decades, put us before many dilemmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. With absolute respect for your academic capacity, Minister, I must tell you that you are looking and contradicting. On the one hand, you say that the university community must decide and not the high priests, but I fear that, as Mr Tsipras does, the despotades will decide what will happen in the next few years. Mr. Tsipras, announcing from Patras the establishment of an Agronomic School based in Aitolokarnania, the establishment of a Law School in Patras, the establishment of a School of Cultural Sciences, with departments in Amaliada and the Tower, had he done some study or done it entirely politically and handicraftedly? You cannot on the one hand invoke the university community and on the other you and the Prime Minister are making schools and accusing PASOK of doing the same. You gave me no answer to my basic question. Firstly, why has the consultation that has taken place in Epirus, the Ionian Islands, Evrytania and have brought laws to an end so far? In fact, I think you also have personal information, because it has become known that your advisor, Mr Kyprianou, is a member of the committee as a university. So you're not telling me anything, but you're talking about consultation. Meanwhile, your position leaves too many doubts about the fact that you will defend what the university community conquered in Elia and especially in the city of Amaliado. Because when we tell you that there was a TEI that has connected education to production, that there is the territorial institute that has cooperation with the Region of Western Greece, that the Ministry of Rural Development is ready to grant the Institute of Koriv area of 340 acres, which has established thirteen traditional varieties, has greenhouses and so on. - So it can upgrade this department and become an area if the agricultural school is established - you tell me that it is devastated the Messolonghi and we have to do something. Here comes your position to button on the proposal from TEI teachers, which we do not know, but we have been informed by the press. It would be good to make it public, since you are a consultation fan. I too am a consultation fan, but I also have the documentaries, not under the table. Give it to us so we know what's going on. So, you need to take a very clear position on how the schools will be held in Elias, if they are done and with what process we will prevent computers. That's how the Deputy Minister, Mr. Baxvanakis, has announced that we will be catching up with the computers next year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Tell us how we're going to make further use of the facilities we have in Amalada, where you've now launched a 6.5 million-dollar study. How, after all, what he acquired - I repeat - the local society in cooperation with the university community, postgraduate, new crops, etc., will not simply undermine it, but will we upgrade it? I would like - and I conclude with this, Mr President - a clear answer as, as you have announced, the Consultative Committee is an advisory one and the final decisions will be made by you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. At first, obviously, for the sake of joke you said that all the high priests would decide on this country. After the historical agreement made you know how isolated you are from society's sense. That's impressive. If you consider it a little joke, I accept it. If it is serious, consider your responsibilities towards this historical course of State-Church relations. What Mr Tsipras said at Patras, at the development conference, obviously applies. You are talking about consultation, but obviously you have no experience or perception of consultation. Firstly, no consultation is ever done at a zero point. We do not come to a table where one looks at one another and says "Mr. Koutsouko, tell you your idea, let me tell you my idea, and we go below". How are the consultations going on? There is a framework and the consultation begins to concretely define this framework. What's that frame? The framework is what the Prime Minister said, because the necessary preliminary discussions had taken place. In other words, for Itolo-Carnania the emphasis should be on agriculture, culturally being Elias, etc. So there's a core of ideas. He's announcing and there's a public conversation. The public debate too many times can overturn things. In this case we do what we do everywhere in Greece and it goes very well. In other words, we have said that there should be a committee to which there should be a member from the Ministry and that the rest should be members who have proposed to us. Let the conclusion come and do it after the public consultation. I remind you of what happened in Iannina in relation to the Epirus TEI, where the same thing was made public and discussed. Public dialogue is not always done on rational terms, you know. It can also be intense, etc. A number of proposals have been taken back, new proposals have been put in place and at the end an impressive consensus has been reached. The same is done in Thessaly, and so is in Central Greece. The same will be done in Western Greece. Now I'll tell you why we didn't go any further. There's a series of things. We thought that we would start from things that are difficult and complex so that they could give us the necessary know-how for the next step. Our next step is to move on to Western Greece as well as to eastern Macedonia. These are the two priorities, and Western Macedonia must be added to them, obviously along with Crete. I say this because there is no particular feeling that what the committee gives will come to the Ministry and will say 'good, good. That's it. Let's go below.' So we started with a grid of ideas. This globe of ideas is specific to the committee. This will come into public consultation and on the basis of the results of the public consultation, the necessary political decisions will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u87	We therefore reach the last question on the Minister for Education, Mr Gavroglou. The third question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "To resolve the problem that has arisen for graduate students of the Department of Political Works of the University of Crete". Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot, however, comment on the issue raised by the Minister for Introductory Affairs - a 'historical' agreement with Makariot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u89	Yeah, but then don't complain if the bell rings.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u90	You interrupted me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u91	All right, I call that from the start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u92	It looks more like a'real estate' agreement, but I do not care about it, the people will judge it. But what I am interested in, Minister, is to point out to you that neither Mr Tsipras nor the Makariot have the right to agree beyond the limits of responsibility and competence of the Makariot. Crete and the Dodecanese - and not just - are not in its area of responsibility. So, as Minister of Education and Religious Affairs and the others you are dealing with the Church, you should know that. Furthermore, you should also be aware that in your proposal for Article 3 you can refer not only to the Charter of the Church of Greece, but also to the Charter of the Church of Crete. And especially you who are with the Phanari. If you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u93	I don't understand. Where am I, if I'm...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u94	Where are you from if you're from? I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u95	Constantine, Mr. Kegeroglou meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u96	That is not what he meant, but I understand your interpretation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u97	Okay, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u98	Exactly what the President interpreted, Professor. And because we're afflicted by the teachers, you're gonna have to prove that you're a good minister, beyond the good teacher, who's been questioned so far. Why am I saying it? I say this because we have the negative experience of Mr Arvanitopoulos, who did not accept dialogue and debate, and when we told him that this plan would not be voted on in the House, he went and did so with a presidential decree and took it to the President of the Republic to pass it on his own. We totally disagreed. The documentary is the questions we submitted from 6 March, 12 March, 2 April, 14 May. He completely ignored us. Coma, coma, coma. He wasn't answering, he wasn't having a conversation. And he came after three - four years the time crew proved to be wrong. We had then proposed that the Department of Construction be converted into a Department of Bioclimatic Works and Construction, with a modern perception, so that it can be synchronised with the needs of the era. Not a word. Today, then, we have four students who have finished their courses and are in graduate, five who are for practice, eleven who owe a few lessons and eighty-six who owe more lessons. What is provided for in the Presidential Decree of Mr Arvanitopoulos: That they should be written in the Department of Engineering or in the Department of Mineral Resources or the Environment in Chania. I find that unacceptable. I think you can solve this. You told me that you were in the mood for a private debate we had. Take note, however, of the need for legislation. It is not enough for a simple directive of your own. Students who are undergraduate and practice, of course, do. Students who have eleven numbers, a few lessons, have the right to complete a Department of Construction, if not possible in Heraklion, to give them the opportunity to another city. And, of course, the hundreds of eighty-six will not lose the right if they want to be enrolled in the Departments of Engineering, Environment or Structural Works in other TEIs operating in Larissa, in Serres, here in West Athens, to give them that right. As far as I'm concerned, Minister, there is a corresponding problem in Trikala, that is, the Construction Department. If you want, see the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u100	Immediately, it is the problem with those who are both in practice and in graduates, to find a solution through consultation. The academic community, whose opinion cannot be the only one, but is heavi - I agree with this - has tabled a concrete proposal to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u101	Minister, this is a specific question. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u102	I see, you're afraid I'm gonna open up parentheses. I think given that this is the eighth question, I am incredibly well in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u103	Look, let me judge this across the clock. I say this not only for you, but also for colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u104	Look, Mr. Kegeroglu, I understand that the opposition word always wants a charm to be recorded in the way the media is, etc. But declaring a historic agreement with which you might object, as a real estate agreement, shows a complete lack of respect for both the state and the state. They want some attention from this guy. Now, the different things, if I am sympathetic on one side because of my origin, etc., I am the Minister of a government and it is clear that I fully accept the policies of this government by definition. The issues you have raised are serious issues which need to be resolved, because this agreement that has been reached is an agreement, a roadmap, it is a framework with several details. These will all be clarified in terms of the status quo, in terms of wages, insurance, the care of the priests who are being financed today and their wages come from the state. It is absolutely clear that there will be absolutely no change in this regard. The rest now, if you think it's a real estate agreement, it's really on you and your party. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Now you said you were afflicted by the teachers. I don't understand what it means. Let's go later, 'cause I don't want to get involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u105	I'm sorry, Minister professors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u106	Be afflicted by professors of ministers. We're at least two here, so you'll keep going with my colleague. As you know, Mr Arvanitopoulos has not had the courage to go out into society with the "ATHENA" project, he has drawn up thirty two presidential decrees to make this alchemy, which we are still trying to unleash today. As far as the issues you have raised are concerned, I want it to be clear: two years ago we asked the then presidents of the TEIs, from their full-time, from the twenty sections that were to stop their operation, to tell us what the operation should continue and what they are completing their cycle. For the first time, the state accepted the proposals of the presidents of the TEIs. The part you're referring to is one of them. What I want to assure you is that no child will lose any of his rights. If they want to continue, they will be able to continue. The subject of these courses will be settled, I promise. It's awkward now. And little and much to be is this part of past sins. In an academicly correct way, we will proceed with the resolution of these problems. What cannot be done is to be able to have rights in other institutions. This, as you can see, creates a precedent that will be without control, uncontrolled and academically not right. That's where their teachers know them, though. There will be an exception that we will proceed with, so that, anyway, they can obtain their degree, etc. There's no other problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u107	So there's a solution within the walls. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u108	Only on the question, the rest of us have time to talk about it. I referred to Mr Arvanitopoulos in his capacity. Of course, it is not generally true, simply because there is the well-known saying of Vismark, you have three ministers. The disagreement is whether he said that three ministers are breaking up a government, if they are teachers, or two. That's the disagreement. Whether three or both do, that's for granted, I mean for public opinion. So it has a burden above, that's what I wanted to say, to prove that you're a good minister, beyond a good academic. That's what I meant. Mr. Arvanitopoulos proved to have had more weight as an academic, it seems, and he didn't do well. So here we have something specific. What's that? Four students, again, are ahead of practice, five ahead of a degree, eleven with a few lessons. Let me interpret that for these twenty, there is no question, there is no problem. I would, however, like, Minister, although the rest of us have the opportunity not to go from the beginning to a Department of Engineering or to a Department of Natural Resources, to allow them to sign up to a Department of Construction. I think it's their right. The state cannot, regardless of the fact that they too have been delayed, remove this right. In addition, as a government, you abolished the n+2. So you give students the opportunity for job-seekers, for reasons of economic or family difficulties, to do more than is foreseen or what is foreseen in the previous law. So we can't have two standards. According to your understanding, which is mine, when it is a worker - because I was a student, like many others - or because of the crisis that many children have returned to their home country, their family and have not continued their studies, we have to give them the right to be able to translate into a Department of Construction, let it be another TEI. I don't understand? Why? Is every TEI Captain? What is it? We said it was self-interested and self-interested in an educational establishment, but that's what the state arranges for. And the rewrites are still arranged by the state. Therefore, with a broadening of the concept of relocation, I think you can do so and do not change sectors, do not go to areas that are not their preference. I would like to ask you in private. It requires legislation, of course, to amend the Presidential Decree. But it's not painful, it's something that nobody's against. It is something that will restore the order and the right of these people, and I consider you to be a fair man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u109	Thank you. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u110	I'd like to make something clear about the children's first charge. We're going to solve it. There'll be a setup. Let's not talk about it again. I would like to disagree not on the parameters you have set out, because, for example, there are many children beyond the years that you were supposed to be able to finish, the n+2. Look: One of the serious reasons is that these children were introduced into departments without having to. Our big problem is that the vast majority of children are studying things they don't want, because we have a system that throws you left and right and that's exactly what we're going to change with the reconstruction of the Third High School and the admission process to the universities we're proposing. For the second time you said, I think it should be ensured that, since these children have been introduced into the Departments of Construction, they can, in so far as they want to do so, to the extent that they are allowed by law, complete their studies there. It is not possible to go from one institution to another, not because it is feud, but because there are different procedures in the curriculum programs, children have entered different molecules, etc. I would therefore ask that we find a solution, to the extent that these children want to complete their studies, to see how many years they are lacking in them and to find a consensual solution, particularly with the Republican authorities, which will make us a proposal. That is what I think is the most democratic and academic way. Thank you and thank you for the two minutes left, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u111	Thank you for your presence here. We move on to the second group of topical questions. The first question will be discussed under No 126/5-11-2018 of the new Republic MP Kozanis Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Akrinian Municipality of Kosani’. All four topical questions will be answered by the Minister present, Mr Georgios Stathakis. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Happy birthday for St. Nektari's day today, the Holy One's patience and silence and humility towards the millions of slanders, Ministers, gentlemen, who accepted during his life a model of honesty, sincerity, humility and humility for our society, for our country, for our country, for our country, for our country's political world, which we so much need. Honestly and honestly, Minister, we also need to show on this issue of the Akrini, which is afflicting the inhabitants of this settlement under the 2011 Act, which, as was then defined, should have already become the relocation plan, which was submitted by PPC in 2014. With the change of the law under Article 147 of 2017, which should have been prepared and the expropriation plan until April 2018, this plan has not yet been submitted by PPC to the relevant Minister, i.e. to you, in order to continue the relocation procedures. In this law, of course, the separation between the Akrini and the Saints Anargiri was made, so that the other process of the settlement, which is really overly urgent, could proceed as a result of the landslide. However, the proceedings concerning the Cape have been delayed. There's a disturbance in the area, and you know it. You have been repeatedly pointed out by colleagues and also by representatives of local government, and at the last assembly of residents in the village it was decided to put this matter before you in the light of the timely question again, so that you yourself personally commit, Minister, to the specific timetable to be submitted by PPC to you in terms of expropriation. If you are ready today, one year after the adoption of the relevant law, we would like you to give us the date that this plan needs to be submitted so that the procedures can proceed and, if not, because until now this has not happened. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u114	I'll start by saying it soon. First, since 2011, the issue had been raised, it has been amended in 2017 and there are three issues involved. The first and main concerns the submission by PPC of the plan to relocate the settlements of Akrini and Anargiri within the deadline. PPC did this. So the first issue has been resolved. The second issue: As you know, the current legislation did not provide for the relocation of the settlements and as many as it has done to date, for settlements located in lands with lignite deposits, were done with local operators' actions, at the request of residents. This is a complex process, with half-cost PPC and government budgets. It has not been done before, so it is understandable that the evaluation of the project requires time and, as you know, it will be completed by a presidential decree, after completion of the relevant ministries and their involvement: internal, economic, environmental, energy and transport. The third aspect concerns, of course, costs. The relocation study determines the cost of 30-40 million. The cost of relocation is borne by the public and by PPC, 50% by each side. For the expropriation costs, which is financed exclusively by PPC, we now have the calculation that this is about 100-120 million. We're in dialogue with PPC. It's a lot of money, as you know, so the steps have been taken. I repeat: PPC has submitted to the first issue. On the second point, we move forward with all the procedures that have one element that is the first time completed with the co-legislative ministries. The third and controversial issue is funding, which is a very pressing issue, and we are discussing it in a dialogue with PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u116	Minister, the people of the Occupied Territories today expect a clear answer from you, a timetable. These evasions, you will allow me to say, they have been heard many times. However, they are now trapped in the settlement, you should know, because PPC's mining processes with lignite, who is also persecuted, are in progress and start to capture the settlement. I will tell you what I mean when I say that 'the lignite is being persecuted' and what impacts and reactions this has on local communities. As you know - you have also told us, we all know - the involvement of lignite in the energy mix in the country will shrink. This causes reasonable concerns to residents if they can finally complete this relocation process - I am talking about this particular settlement, the other relocations of the other settlements are another conversation - and if there is never that money to be financed. As you said, the money for the outward relocation is enough. So taking into account these circumstances, these conditions that are taking place at the moment we are talking about, PPC continues its work and even in breach of the environmental conditions it has signed. That is why the Medals Inspectorate of Northern Greece recently imposed a fine of 5 thousand euros, due to the deposits close to the settlement. So, with tolerance to the local society, this operation of PPC, awaiting this clear answer from you. Minister, I believe that the inhabitants are indignant because of this prolongation on prolongation, as promises have been made in the previous period about promises and the leaderships of the ministries and also by local self-government. I invite you to share the problem. Let me tell you something else. You boast, and you do well, about the overcrowding of the over-taxation that has arisen in the state funds. If you want this work to be done, let your Ministry first complete the work that had to be done with PPC for the expropriation plan and gradually - one does not ask for a single one to give 120 million - say that by 2021 we will give EUR 5, 10, 20 million to go ahead. It is about a society of more than a thousand inhabitants, Minister, who are trapped in a very warded atmospheric environment. There are diseases, the President is a doctor and he understands. The suspended particles from the ash and chimneys of the factories cause cancer in the area. If we do not show solidarity and practical interest, Minister, today by saying the date and timetable, I believe that this will be considered by the people as yet another hunger. Please, with all the good will that you can see, give a start date for these operations.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u117	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u118	Nor do we go beyond this, nor do I think you should be demagogled on this matter. The process is explicit and your proposal to transfer everything to the state budget is within the limits of demagogy. It can't be done. We're not talking about a small amount. So neither are we evading nor trying to find the magic solution, the Greek taxpayer paying for it all. There is a coordinate procedure, which we are taking a step forward. He's got his time. We're not evading this. Without making any changes to the principle on which expropriation is based, which is the principle that the lignite stock is used and is called upon to make expropriation, we are trying to find a reasonable coordinate solution in the time to be given, so that it can be achieved in a credible way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u119	We move on to the fourth Question No 102/26-10-2018 by Mr Ioannis Manatis on the subject: "To make a 50-dose adjustment from PPC to TWG Ion-Drepanium-Asine and the other TWG." Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the issue I raise in my timely question concerns the local Ionian and Asine-Brepan. However, I must tell you that it concerns all of the country's land improvements agencies. Both Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Koutsoukos have a similar negative experience of PPC, which cut the current at TWG, and Mr Kegeroglu from Crete has virtually corresponding experiences. You should now see, as a supervising minister, how we can correct the bad texts. Mr President, I am very specific about the proposal made by TWG Irias, Asines and Dresdens. We are talking about a thousand five hundred producers in Argold who have vegetable and citrus fruits, that is, orange-mantrine. So these people, with the two TWGs, owed PPC EUR 160,000 in January 2015. In May 2018 they owed EUR 890,000. In other words, we had more than five times the debt of the same people in three years. I put it aside for now how this happened because I am interested in seeing a solution to the problem. After these two TWGs were co-operated with PPC, they paid 30% of the debt and with religious reverence they pay off the current bills. However, PPC continues to press them to cut off the current if they do not repay the outstanding debt. The proposal, Mr Minister, which has been submitted to PPC by these two TWGs, is therefore simple and I hope it will be accepted by you as well. They have repaid 30% of the debt, committed to giving another 10% of the debt, i.e. within one semester of 40% of the debt. And the rest of PPC is asked to be in fifty instalments, as was done in TEV Tyrnavos and TEV Farsalon. Since a person who is not familiar with the issues could make any comment, Mr President - I address the Bureau and the Minister - and I quote this: Imagine the banks and foreign bankers, who run our banks, have had a proposal from the borrowers saying: 'Don't give us any debts, we will pay them all. We give you 40% advance and give us the opportunity to repay in fifty instalments the remaining debt for housing or business loans." How can such a proposal, which would be amazing for foreign bankers, be rejected by PPC in which 51% holds the Greek State? In other words, Mr Stathakis, we believe that he can give the necessary direction so that this particular problem can be resolved in a socially fair manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u121	Clearly the question, Mr. Maniots. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u122	Well, let's start with a head toward my friend, Mr. Maniot. If the debt was ejected from 163 000 in 2015 to 893 000 today, it means that the policy you had for friendly arrangements in 2013-2014 did not pay off. The question was raised last year for the TWGs, and I would like to clarify what has happened: First, PPC could not make a general rule for TWG. But he did three things that are positive. The first is that he contacted all the TWGs and called for a status of debt regulation. I think that TWG has responded positively to other Akronapulia TWGs, who have not made any arrangements. So TWO Ionian, Barely, Asine, I think it's been too close to a deal. We encourage these agreements. We believe that the basis for a reasonable set of arrangements has been laid. So, in your main question, I am positive that we need to find the solution, or if the dialogue is complete, and the differences between TWG and PPC are very small. The second category was TWGs which did not respond to a system of regulation. There remains the problem and we will continue to have problems as long as TWGs do not enter a regulation regime with PPC, because PPC obviously cannot continue to operate in a spirit of permanent TWG subsidy that refuses to participate in this decisive dialogue. The third thing is that the TWGs had a strong alibi that their collection by their members is not desirable and are therefore in the middle of a problem that they cannot manage 'if they are not paid by the farmers of TWG, how will they pay PPC?' Faced with this problem, I would remind you that we have taken a legislative initiative, the Ministry of Rural Development, under Article 66 of Law 4546 on 12-6-2018, which resolves a number of issues relating to projects and land improvements. Amongst other things, this provision establishes a more effective framework for the collection of TSEs by their farmers in order to enable producers, farmers and their debts to be regulated in order to facilitate their repayment. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] So I think we are at a stage where the 2018 balance sheet is positive. We have a problem with the debts of farmers towards the UN and TWGs. We have a system of debt regulation between TWG and PPC and we are more encouraging all parties to the dialogue to find a solution. So I am positive to this question. Thirdly, there remains a problem, for which we must all be aware, namely TWGs which have not been regulated and which are called - I say it directly - to proceed immediately to a genuine dialogue in order to regulate their debts to PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Maniatis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u124	Minister, I am truly pleased and thank you for your positive answer. You should be aware that you are resolving a very important issue in the two TWGs and Asins - and in this way I believe that you are giving a message to PPC that, for example, 50-dose adjustments are arrangements that can and must be accepted, because farmers - you know very well - cannot respond to more demands from PPC. I repeat, conscientiously, I am not talking about how TWG debts have spread over recent years. Now, on the occasion of your presence, Minister, and because you spoke of Law 4546/2018, several articles of which we voted in favour, I would like to refer to another article on the Local Improvement Agency, Article 60. What I will mention to you is a TWG of Argolida which is perhaps the most innovative of Greece. It is the Local Improving Agency of Heras-Kourtakis, an organization that is going to put digital, "smart" agriculture, in close cooperation with the Diavalcanic Centre at Aristotle University and a body that PPC President Panayotakis mentioned at the Peloponnese Regional Council. But look at what the problem is. While there is a positive response, so that TWO Hera - Kurtaki would put photovoltaics, there was the well-known ban on the Peloponnese, the "Krove" which we had rightly welcomed. Hero, there is no longer a "closed" in the Peloponnese, and so we have the possibility for the Peloponnese to have another 30 MW from renewable energy sources. But now see what the void of the law is. The Act, in Article 60, provides that these 30 MW can only be exploited by the Energy Communities and excludes TWG. So - and this is my proposal, and I am sure you will understand it and you will do it acceptable - that the TWGs should join, that is to say, the corresponding article 'Energy Communities or TWG can make use of this 30 MW capacity for the Peloponnese Region'. All the TWGs of the rest of Greece have the right to join, except the TWGs of the Peloponnese, which, obviously, I want to believe, have no possibility. So there's an injustice for all TWGs in the Peloponnese. And as it comes to the surface on the basis of the request from the TWG Hera - Kurtaki, I would like to stress in particular that TWGs operate even better than energy communities. Minister, for example TWO Hera - Kurtakis has six hundred and fifty members, it has been operating for many years, it has VET, it has a general meeting, it has a board of directors. Farmers have found them among themselves. So you have a collective entity that wants to do green energy for the cultivation of the primary sector and essentially produces excellent agricultural products of green quality. In fact, three days ago, we saw the pleasant event of TWG Velvetou Kozani making the opening of a hydroelectric power station of 1.9 MW, which is a very positive action, which other TWGs should also be imitated. What's the problem now? The Ministry of Rural Development has declared measure 431 in its operational programme, but expires until 30 November 2018. TEV Hera - Kurtakis wants to table a proposal to put photovoltaics and reduce the energy costs of cultivation to him by 60%. However, there is no provision to exploit the removal of the saturated for the Peloponnese Region, because it will have to set up another body, namely an energy community. So the request is very clear, very clear - and I am sure you are aware - for the Peloponnese Region to provide, as for the rest of Greece, for the local authorities to be able to submit applications to the Rural Development Programme so that by subsidising their respective programme they can install photovoltaics and reduce their energy costs of production of products by about 60%. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u126	As you know, we are very actively promoting the institution of the energy communities that is the great part of the legislative framework. It enables consumers of energy, private individuals, businesses, cooperatives, TWGs and so on, municipalities, to establish energy communities and produce the energy they need themselves or even want to resold. The Peloponnese, as you know, has a special problem, because we are waiting for the completion of the great project of the new infrastructure networks - which ends in 2019 - which will remove all the restrictions that the Peloponnese currently has, because the network is saturated. So from six to nine months from now we will now be discussing the removal of this barrier that the Peloponnese had, as the network, the new large cable, will be completed. So we're talking about a transitional phase. Because there is a great mobility in the Peloponnese of accepting the new institution and developing major initiatives, we have created a small space for this transitional period in the network, providing for responding precisely to the call of many energy communities that have embraced the institution and are currently promoting their establishment and operation in order to go ahead with it. In the rest of Greece, as you know, TWGs can - and we encourage them - produce their own energy. This is the long-term response to TWG energy adequacy. It'll give them a big financial benefit. For these few months, I will see again whether there is room for what we have given the energy communities, or whether this demand has already been overtaken by requests from the energy communities, and I will return to that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the fifth under No 114/30-10-2018 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Direct action to protect workers at the LARCO plant" in Larymna Fthiotida, in order to avoid accidents at work". Mr Katsotis has the floor for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is what has been said about the immediate measures to be taken to protect workers at the LARCO plant. In recent years the fear and concern and anxiety of workers have increased because there have been incidents, Minister, and only by chance have we not grieved human lives. We're reporting characteristics two incidents. On October 10, four workers went to the hospital with severe shortness of breath, when a hot silo powder leak was leaked, and also on October 15, the lifting brakes were partially broken on the crane bridge in the electrocamine room. And because on the crane, there are no safety brakes, what has shut down the worst was the experience of the operator. This poor observance of security measures on the part of the management of LARCO with the new decisions it has taken is even worsening the situation regarding precisely the safety of workers at the plant. In particular, they refer to the communications from the directorate of the group, Nos 80 and 82, which relate to the merger of the three sections of the maintenance workshop. Workers with their experience and over the years that they have been there say that these tactics have been tested before, so that they have many, dozens of fatal accidents and hundreds of serious and less serious accidents at work, contraction, reduction of jobs, loss of know-how and the depreciation of all workers and facilities. They consider this development dangerous and ask you, Minister, to tell them what you are going to do so that the administration takes all the necessary measures for the safety of workers, so as not to mourn victims. Life is invaluable and every worker must return home after the end of his work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u130	Let us make it quite clear that the government's policy is very clear: accidents at work 0%. This is the strategy, that is the policy, unnecessarily. ‘LARCO’ since June 2013 has been certified for the health and safety management system at work by OHSAS 18001, which is one of the most internationally recognised standards. For this certification system, an annual periodic audit is carried out by the company ‘LLOYDS’ and the company complies with any observations during the periodic audit. The standards of the system of health and safety at work are therefore guaranteed in accordance with this international practice. In addition, every three months a meeting of the plant's management is held with the Working Party on the Health and Safety of Workers, in which a memorandum on the subject of the plant is drawn up and handled until the next meeting. In addition, LARCO is subject to ongoing inspections by the Mining Inspection Body, which also makes annual audits and exceptional preventive checks. Now in the case of the two themes, the recent incidents, the College of Inspectors was informed of the incident on 10-10-2018, it went on 12-10-2018, two days later, it became an autopsy on the site and was informed about it by the security technician. We have the report and we have the medical reports, so this has been raised in the process of monitoring, and I think we will have the objective assessment of exactly what this was about. And for the second event, all the procedures have started. On health and safety matters, let me also present the relevant document, which says what has happened in the last year on the safety of activities. It is a full list of renovations of electrical equipment, from changes to installations, from maintenance, from dismantling of old installations etc. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I am tabling this with regard to the maintenance of the crane bridges, which has also been the subject of your second observation. [[At this point, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm closing up with the last thing you've raised. The integration of the mechanical maintenance sections took place from 1-10-2018. This consolidation concerns very similar parts. It was partly done for morning workshops. For the afternoon and night shift workshops, unification became more widespread but still not throughout the factory, too only in some parts of it. These decisions were taken in the light of the factory's apparently well-functioning and safe operation, obviously taking into account the parameters regarding the experience and competence of their staff. All workshops have a full organization in terms of supervisors, from the level of caretaker to the level of engineer. I therefore believe that it was a necessary step, but he took all the peculiarities into account, and that is why he had a different approach on the morning shift than on the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u132	Minister, this merger took place, with which, of course, workers disagree, because they have experience of such actions, as I have said, which caused serious accidents and accidents. However, this administration made the merger, but did not comment, Minister, so that, on the basis of article 48 of Law 3850/2010, workers would attend training seminars for the facilities and for a certain period of time. That's not what happened. It's just a matter of that. Secondly, it has also not taken into account, in order to charge suitable equipment, with personal protective measures required by workers. You said that with the Committee on Health and Safety they have continuous meetings. However, they did not go to the meeting so that they could listen to the workers in relation to this unification and what measures must be taken to avoid accidents at work. The new emergency crew, as it is said, has not designated a head of shift, Minister. It has not yet been clarified what they mean and what they do not mean as emergencies. All they did, in order to be able to be okay, is to appoint a worker as manager, who will only be present in the morning hours that are his working hours. In the afternoon and at night he'll be at his house. How is it possible here to coordinate and ensure the safety of workers itself? For the merged sections of S1 and S2, but also for the SG, it is said that the employees do not know about their establishment plan. They are matters which, Minister, must be taken into account and the administration cannot implement the minimum requirements so that it can cover the safety of workers. A serious issue, too, which workers themselves raise, is that they do not know from this merger what economic changes will be made, that is, harmful changes in their incomes, because they have certain specific benefits. What about the merger? Have these been clarified by the administration to workers? The workers do not know them, and they certainly require them to know. We believe, Minister, that from this practice, if the administration insists on this merger and on this overlookation of all these measures, workers who have never risen to heights will go up day or night, which means what? It means that they do not know the subscribing for the crane bridges, for rotating liftings twenty - five and thirty meters of capacity up to a hundred tons. Workers who have no contact with electrocamine until now will walk over a 2000 - Celsius metal bath. Employees who have no contact so far with the installation of propane will be invited, Minister, in the event of leakage, which is common in LARCO, to close the safety valves, which do not know where they are, because there has been no training. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Workers who have no contact to date will walk on the bridge of mud, on towers of thirty-foot towers, on a silo of thousands of tonnes, without knowing the locations of escape, safety switches, traps, the behaviour of each installation. These are issues, Minister, which we cannot get through. The administration has serious responsibilities. You, of course, are responsible for the appointment of the administration, which neglects, or has poor security measures or all that I have told you, the seminars, the training, etc., you must take immediate action to avoid accidents at work, whether fatal or accidentally, which will harm their own health.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u134	I insist you raised three issues. The first is whether the unification of two parts that do a similar or same job and indeed the limitations that I have explained to you raises safety issues. It seems that the unification of two parts that do exactly the same work with absolute care for the nature of the activities does not raise a safety issue. The second point you have raised is whether this consolidation is an element of rationalisation which concerns both workers' incomes, positions, organic sections and so on. This is within the logic of a company to rationalise its costs. It is not a question that can be the major issue. I assume that this type of financial rationalisation in any company makes sense if the safety standards are met, as I have said. The third point you raised is that the existing system - and the previous one with both parts and the current one with one unified section - has gaps to be covered by new recruitments. In other words, if there are any specialities that they did not cover, there is a question of new recruitment for safety reasons. For this aspect, I have never been informed, so I am surprised that this dimension is now being raised, implying that neither the previous non-consolidated section nor the current ones have any people. This is a great gap in the safety of workers. This is a new subject which, in fact, surprises me how it is now being put under the current conditions. I'm reminiscing. I think that the approach must be very well-documented, which says that our policy towards this issue is the highest safety, the activities of specific practices. The seminars are the first point on my list. There are another thirty-five points about what is now going on this year, what investments are being made for maintenance, safety and so on. I shall therefore confine myself to them and consider that the steps taken do not in any way affect the high standards to be applied by LARCO. I repeat that the government's will is zero accidents at work.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much to the Minister. We move on to the second debate with No 1326/6-9-2018 question by MP B' Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incredible analgesia of PPC against its consumers, accompanied by the unbelievable suffering of PPC's shops". Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. It had not started as a timely question, but it had been submitted as a simple question and we expected the Minister's replies, setting out the following issues in summary. First, following the amendment made by the Board of Directors of PPC in the summer of 2018 and specifically on 1 May 2018 for debt arrangements, there was a tightening up, which, on the one hand, limited the instalments and, on the other, takes as main criteria the customer's consumer behaviour, the amount of a monthly account and the number of outstanding accounts, without taking into account social criteria. This, with the specialization that took place, led to a request for advances from 15% to 40% on the outstanding account. The crisis is still there. The social invoice in the intermediate year has been altered and this changes in strict conditions have already been made and the parties concerned have already to submit new applications. And within all of this, suddenly about the end of August, PPC sent about three hundred thousand letters to the debtors, to come to regulation or to discontinue the current. The world has responded. There's no doubt about it. It has been responded I can say willingly, but, unfortunately, it has not been possible to regulate. Why couldn't he adjust? On the one hand, the three conditions laid down by PPC's Board of Directors and, on the other hand, I mentioned above are strict and could not respond, because the number of doses is limited. I must remind you of PPC's previous regulation of thirty-six doses, which seemed to be a success. Here, depending on the level of the debt - and I do not need to go too far - we are talking about twenty-four instalments at a maximum, or even eighteen if the consumer is in another category, and if the current is cut off because of debt, we need an advance of 40% and up to 12 instalments. He can't respond to that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It comes out of the social invoice and that results when they were called by letters - I think they were legal offices or collecting companies - I am not sure of that, Mr President, to mention - and consumers responded - the customers of PPC - and they came to PPC's offices to go ahead with the regulation, there was another picture, which was the following: the offices are limited and at least in western Athens, as we have seen, it is just an office that can serve regulation issues, because it has an electronic interface. Thus there were images of huge tails from individuals, such as mothers, elderly people, exposed to the sun. Of course, there was a relentless arrangement there because it was simply extended the hours of PPC's stores as I was informed after the question had been put. I don't know if or not. It doesn't matter. I therefore summarise, Mr President, my question by saying that there should be a change in the PPC decision. Mr. Stathakis, the Minister, is the majority shareholder. So it has a say and indeed a burden on PPC. The conditions must be changed, and the arrangements for all debtors to be more favourable, must be based on income criteria which are not taken into account today, and the number of doses increased so that they can respond to the financial situation of PPC as well. So we think that its finances will also be strengthened, while they are now deterred in the direction of regulation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u138	Let me review our energy poverty policy and the protection of socially sensitive groups. We changed the social invoice system by introducing two things: first, the income and assets that exist in the social dividend from the respective Ministry of Labour. So a million thousand households, who got the social dividend, are part of the new social invoice. This protects the problems of the old. Income and property criteria that were not in the old were objectively allowing there to be problems in exploiting the social tariffs which should not be exploited. So we solved the one problem with this reform. A million hundred thousand households who received social dividends, join the COT with 30% discount. However, we have taken an additional measure for low incomes. While the old KOT had a 30% discount on the electricity price horizontally, we introduced a 70% discount on the current for those who receive social solidarity income. So these three hundred thousand households whose incomes are much lower and receiving social solidarity, have now acquired a high energy price of 70% at the current price. And we brought a third measure. We set up the Reunification Fund, which means that the households who were in the COT and who were now unable to meet their needs and who had been powered by them are resorting to this fund, and this fund from the state budget pays with some criteria the debt they have to PPC in order to reconnect them. With this third measure, a thousand eight hundred households who have actually had huge problems, with a cost of EUR 10 million, have been reconnected at this time. Now I'm going to that particular question. These are given, and with the strong protection policy we have, there was a PPC policy during the summer, as you pointed out, to send letters to households that were part of the COT and did not pay to come for arrangements. Approximately 60% of households adjusted their debts, and that is positive. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] On the other hand, there were also criticisms of the policy towards households - since it was not a single policy - which, for various reasons, had violated previous regulations. So PPC, with this decision you're saying, became very strict and reduced the doses. And all of a sudden, it became an acidic shape - I share this - that while PPC made arrangements for up to forty-eight instalments for socially vulnerable customers, if previous arrangements had been violated, it did it either 12-month or eighteen months and so on. I think that here I must remind you of the other existing provision that protects consumers against such arbitrary practices. As you know, there are the specific arrangements in the Code for vulnerable customers, which says that suppliers - PPC or private individuals - are obliged to provide the possibility of partial and undeclared repayment of the consumption account, as well as the debts of older accounts of vulnerable household customers, since according to existing legislation, every monthly instalment we are called upon to regulate, cannot exceed 50% of the corresponding monthly expenditure on electricity from the vulnerable household consumer. That is, like the law, based on the operating code for vulnerable customers, obliges PPC and anyone else to make specific arrangements. For example, if you consume 50 euros - four-monthly consumption - it can make the regulation up to 25 euros. This changes the repayment period. This restriction is very important - and I stress it - because some complaints which have been heard - rightly because it is imposed, regardless of whether it is thirty-six, forty-eight, based on the consumption of the household, this regulation has a ceiling of 50%. He can't break it. With this, and with this, I think we have reached a point of better, more orderly operation. I recognise from PPC's side that she wanted to go into regulation and she did well. On the other hand, I think that there may be failures in the pressure of days and conditions. That is perfectly understandable and I share many of the consumer protests. At the end of the day, however, there are the existing legislation, the fund for the really vulnerable - to which someone is referring to - but also strict compliance with the code which I repeat provides for regulation up to 50%. So someone who comes to PPC on the basis of its consumption knows what the regulation he can and must claim is. On the basis of these two measures - as you know after November 1st, the current is not cut - I think now is the time and time to go to a more smooth and appealing and socially sensitive regulation of this whole system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, twenty-one student and three educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Thevas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to point out that you are following a topical and urgent debate. The Member has a right to ask the Minister concerned a timely question. That is why you see that there are not too many Members in this House. The MEP finds a topical issue, asks the Minister and there is a process of protagonism and denology. Here, Mr Carras, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, PPC has taken decisions from time to time, they have become boards, there are consumer ethical regulations, etc. I listened very carefully to the Minister's reply, which I have to say was detailed. However, the gap remains for a significant proportion of PPC's consumers, because all these arrangements concern those who fall within the concept of vulnerable. However, there are groups of our fellow citizens - a large number - who, according to the criteria according to which they can join the regulation, find it difficult to pay with the advance payment of the regulation and the instalments. You have given an example of EUR 50 per month plus 25% for regulation of the past, Mr Minister. Many times, however, a micro-retired person, who lives with a welfare income, is unable to respond, for the reason that our incomes are now low in large categories of people. Give me an example, too. A pensioner who receives the minimum pension of EUR 380 or a young person rotating two or three days a week - in fact, in the last few days, it has been heard that a large bank has been moving to a change in the labour regime - and his salary of EUR 500 does not exceed, if he is forced to pay EUR 70 or 80 per month for the current and does not own his own property, you understand that he is at risk of too many things. So we think, and that is a proposal, which I include in my question, Mr President, that we should now proceed to an automated regulation system and there should be a PPC platform, where these elements will be introduced, and we will no longer be limited to a number of doses, but the number of PPC will be determined by the consumer's income. I think the 25% that you mentioned in relation to current consumption, which increases the account, may make it difficult for the consumer to respond. I have a case of a lady who met me and complained to me about getting a widow's pension of EUR 320 and being unable to survive with her family if the current is also paid. So I think that you should move on to another solution too. In addition to the automated regulation, the repayment of the debt does not depend on a number of instalments, but on the possibility of payment. State previously the forty - eight and thirty - six instalments that were in force. And yet that can often be difficult. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The proposal I have to make, Mr Minister, is not to stick to the number of doses, but to keep to what PPC or another power provider can pay. And you know why? Because we are staying on the question of electricity consumption, but we must bear in mind that there is also a number of charges on each PPC account, such as municipal tax, municipal charges for the collection of waste and street lighting, and that there is an overall bill with charges, which may be drastically limiting consumption - to turn off light as soon as the time goes, etc. - we can't avoid. Therefore, I do not see this being taken into consideration by PPC, nor do I see any increase in the accounts to remind me of the connection between the islands and the EMSMAR, because consumption in itself may be low. I think, therefore, that you should give up - and I refer to PPC, not to you personally - the question of the number of doses and move on to a system that meets the financial possibilities, taking into account the other needs of the consumer. An old man pays for drugs too. Cut off the drugs, too? So that is the proposal, and I think you should go ahead because I think it is fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Minister, before you answer, with the opportunity you're here because we take a lot of questions, you can give, if you like, an answer if you have any further on the issue of blackout in Rhodes. I say this on the occasion of your presence, since we are talking about PPC, if you have anything younger to tell us. I leave it at your discretion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u142	I'm being briefed by my phone with messages.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u143	I understand that, because we too have a lot of questions. It's an opportunity, since you're here, if you can, give an answer to your dentistry. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u144	I think the messages are encouraging. The problem will be restored very quickly. The first 40 minutes were very quick to respond. I return to the fundamental question you raised. We increased the discount for the electricity price from 30% to 70% for those who actually have low incomes. At the same time, for the additional arrangements, we have a special provision, so that they can have a discount on some of the fixed ones - I am not referring to the municipalities - in order for there to be protection. As you know, from 70 percent and up the next step is the free. There is nothing in between, because we have taken a strong social policy towards this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u145	What percentage of consumers is 70%?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u146	I repeat. The arrangements have two insurance margins. The fund can cover the old debt that a household has at 100% for poor households. So for a household as you described it, which is now threatened and says "I can't repay my old debt to PPC", it pays the fund and at the same time joins the start with 70%. I think it is a very powerful protection indicator for these low pensions or other social groups, where there is enormous pressure. I do not see that this framework has the potential for additional improvement, precisely because it is very safe, favourable and focused, indeed, on the needs of households pressed by income data Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 2 October 2018, Wednesday 3 October 2018, Thursday 4 October 2018, Friday 5 October 2018, Monday 8 October 2018 and Thursday 11 October 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they are ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u148	The minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 2 October 2018, Wednesday 3 October 2018, Thursday 4 October 2018, Friday 5 October 2018, Monday 8 October 2018 and Thursday 11 October 2018 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-09-S1-commons.u149	With the consent of the House at no time of 13.06, the sitting for the next Monday, November 12, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
