ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I would like to inform the House of a request from a colleague for a absence permit. Congressman Nikolaos - George Dendias is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Friday 6 July 2018 until Monday 9 July 2018 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. And now we are going to discuss topical and urgent questions. We will begin with the second under number 1854/25-2018, a timely question of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Award of grace to criminal convictions, in order to appoint or obtain permission to pursue a profession." Here, Madam President, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a few weeks ago in this Chamber, the question of the Democratic Integration was discussed on the systematic undermine of justice and its intrinsic control operation by the government. Within this framework of your mentality and tactical we read newspapers in the press that by your own proposal and opinion of the Harita Council you have given in particular: The rest of Mr. S.A.'s sentence. the F. which was imposed on him for possession and sale of narcotics in order not to be a coma for his appointment to PPC S.A. The legal consequences resulting from the condemnation of Mrs G.M. Court of First - I do not read names for obvious reasons - a nurse for the offence of theft on a continuing basis, in order not to be a cloak for the practice of the profession of nurse in the public or private sectors. The legal consequences resulting from the condemnation of Mr B.G. of D.G. for the distortion of passport in order not to be a coma for the acquisition of Greek nationality. The legal consequences resulting from the M.K.'s conviction. for the offence of theft, in order not to constitute a barrier to the acquisition of Greek nationality and the exercise of the medical profession. They're not the only ones. Both you and your predecessor, Mr. Paradigmopoulos, have recommended gifts. I mentioned some that I think they're making an eye on. Written questions have been submitted by many colleagues from the whole Opposition. Minister, I am very well aware that in order for the request for grace to be accepted by the President of the Republic precedes the opinion of the accused, and of the official rapporteur, a decision of the Hariton Council, which is seven-membered and majority-membered is made by judges and follows your proposal, as a Minister of Justice, to the President of the Republic, who has the final word. I am also aware that criteria for grace do not match those used by the court for the formation of its judicial conviction. That's well known. However, at a time when the world has become the pretext of fear for its lives and property, scandals from fraud and theft of drugs become daily newspapers and issues in the central news releases, the robberies and thefts are a daily phenomenon and no longer is even news, unemployment has hit every Greek family and young scientists are going abroad in order to find jobs in their objects and create a very toxic environment and in this toxic environment, what does the Minister do? If the Minister, in other words, did he not proceed to make the proposal for grace, would the procedure proceed without him? Who will not ask how abusively these favors were given? Especially when the majority of them are concerned with the removal of the consequences arising from foreign convictions and so allow them to acquire Greek citizenship, as well as their right to appoint them in public and generally to participate in public life? So I ask you, Minister, what dignity are you talking about and what service of the public interest with such decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Stylus, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the honourable Member who has tabled this timely question. Although I have spoken several times from the Step of Parliament on these issues, and I thought that they have been clarified, I regret to say that I must repeat what I have said, but also what is being said in the Constitution, Article 47(1), as I see it not so self-evident even for Greek and Greek MPs. I shall therefore begin, Mr President, with the very simple ones. I shall read the exact question from Mrs Oomen-Ruijten. "We have recently read to the press that, with your own proposal and opinion of the Harit Council, you have given two examples, among other things..." Let's see how the process is. The Hariton Council is not giving sentences, much more than the Justice Department. This is the sole privilege of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic shall act after consulting the Harita Council and a proposal from the competent Minister. Who participates in the Harit Council? Hariton Council is a seven-member body chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice and a President of the Court of Justice, three Spectrums and two senior officials from the Ministry of Justice participate. To end up with the Hariton Council, it accepts the opinion of the prosecutor of the court which issued the sentence, as well as accepts the recommendation of an official belonging to the competent department of the Ministry of Justice. In addition, an official of the Ministry of Justice or a senior judge of the ones I mentioned to you is recommended at the meeting of the Harita Council, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you can understand that the Hariton Council is a body, involving a majority of senior judicial officers, two senior officials who are aware of the issues raised by the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the Secretary-General. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This Council concludes up to a proposal, after hearing, as I said, the prosecutor of the court which issued the judgment and a special rapporteur, an official of the competent department of the Ministry of Justice. He concludes with an opinion, which he submits to the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Justice, he has the opportunity to agree or disagree with this opinion and to submit his proposal to the President of the Republic. So none of the people I mentioned so far decides. It is absolutely unfounded what you refer to in the timely question, that is, we have given sentences. Because the institution which the President of the Republic decides is merely the President of the Republic. And I tell you that in most cases the flow is identical. In other words, whether there is unanimity or a majority, as agreed with the Minister's proposal, the President of the Republic finally decides on the favor of a positive or negative one. Most of the time, what I mentioned positively. However, I should like to refer to the first two - for the rest I shall refer to the latter - cases mentioned by my colleague in her timely question. In the first case, we had a young child twenty-three years old, which in 2008 fell into the offence of the possession and sale of drugs. It was about hemp. He was punished for his act by the court and since 2008 he has never committed any crime. The Council - take note of what I will say - unanimously decided to give a favourable opinion, as were the recommendations made by the prosecutor and the special rapporteur from the Ministry of Justice. In other words, we have a seven-member body which decides unanimously and also two suggestions to the Council, which are the same. My proposal was identical with the Council and the President of the Republic gave me a favour. I repeat, this is a child of twenty-three years who in 2008 had suffered this crime, for which he was punished by the court and never had to deal with justice. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] The second case...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u7	Minister, don't we leave her for dentology? We're already in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u8	Let me say the second case, Mr President, and the others in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u10	The second case is even more revealing, I'd say. We had the crime of stealing on a continuous basis. He had stolen clothes worth 70 euros and a 39-euro clock from a twenty-year-old child in 2007. A thirty-day prison sentence was imposed with a three-year parole period. Already, the court had recognized the lightening of sincere remorse and since 2007 it has never committed any crime. It is important, Mr President, that we also check the government's actions. We have no government act here, we have a decision of the President of the Republic. The most important thing, however, is that we do not mix and reproduce in the courtroom articles of various types that sell intelligently with what they write in the newspapers. They're selling smart! I saw this post myself, but I didn't pay any attention. This wise guy, who wrote these things, knew nothing about the individual elements, nor the suffering of the institutions who have dealt with neither with the unanimous view of all the actors - and the prosecutors, judges and servants.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u12	Minister, I listened carefully. Repeat what I told you in my first speech. I said it quickly, so that you don't bother repeating what you have answered all these times that you have been asked. So I told you, and I say it again, that I know that giving grace is the prerogative of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u13	Then why are you saying we gave her away?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u14	However, the Minister responsible is not a decorative element. Is that what you want to tell us? That you're a decorative element throughout history?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u15	We made a suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u16	So it is the one who plays an important role, because it makes the proposal to grant grace. And because the Greek people are listening to us, I cannot accept that a Minister of Justice is decorative in a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u17	Who said it was decorative? You can answer me on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u18	You won't interrupt me, Minister. I heard you. You'll listen to me too. I'm asking, and you're answering. This is the parliamentary procedure. If you look at a pooled table with the ten cases of grace, it is enough to find that there is an abusive application of the total exceptional measure called grace awards. You, obviously, have been informed that there is a correspondence that has been made with the Harit Committee, which makes these decisions, and that we have asked for the relevant decisions to be given to us. We never got them. You only have access. And I ask: isn't it public documents? In other words, they cannot have access to elected Members? Is not the question tabled in this House based on a legitimate interest? I'm not a lawyer, but I'm waiting for an answer to that. Mr President, I will take some time - I tell you in advance - to document my opinion. I will also tell you what I am sorry to see. The body of production of such decisions, quietly and buffalo, undermines the system of penalties and ultimately weakens justice. You may not mind that. After all, your work and days of government bear witness to it. We, however, and every Greek citizen of Greece, are frightened and provoked by the public about the right of self-determination. Minister, no one disagrees with the penitentiary role of justice and the need for modern societies to reintegrate into the citizens who have been subject to criminal deeds. That is a argument which we accept and which we have already taken into account. Of course it must give a second chance of decent life. That's another thing that your government is getting used to. You seem to have found the innovative solution to solve the country's demographic problem. For here you are naturalizing as Greeks, undignified, thieves, crooks, forgers, forgers from neighbouring countries, you are giving them the rest of their sentences, you are extinguishing the consequences of the condemnation through the path of grace to the swimming pool of Siloam and you are giving them the opportunity to work in the galantomus in other countries, both in the public and in the private sector, or in professions that both honesty and the white criminal record have reason to exist. This is, of course, a privilege that SYRIZA has. He's very kibby in this! Minister, when young doctors, new nurses, are forced to leave, because they are looking for a decent job abroad, you are making it easier for imported people - at least that is what we in the FEK are saying - who have been convicted by the court's booby for theft, but they are doctors and nurses. To God, not that there is no national staff of corresponding qualifications. Thus, the Greek people can sleep the sleep of the law quietly for their pockets and for their health. And our hospitals will also be able to sleep quietly, because expensive anticancer medicines will henceforth be marketed with ease, specializing in fraud and theft, in serial,'sciences' of the kind, not just amateurs. And quieter than anyone can the SYRIZA and ANEL government who found the patent for attracting new voters' blood may sleep! The people you are helping them now with the grace and giving them a country, you have guaranteed them a good job, either in the public or in the private sector, doomed to thefts and drug dealers, may be. But they are not ungrateful. They won't forget what good you've done to them, you can count them from today on the list of those who are so grateful. You know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor. Please very, little attention to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I understand why your party, the Potami, has left the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u21	Minister, I'm presiding now. I don't represent any party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u22	Because what I heard looked like a far-right rhetoric, not to say fascising, rather than positions from a party that wants to be called progressive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u23	The lack of arguments is obvious! Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u24	First of all - and I am impressed by this - the Member has left himself to defend that the government is doing a favor. And while she said that grace is given by the President of the Republic, she returns to her dentistry and says "you have found the trick of giving favors". Well, first of all, that. Secondly, he did not answer me on the substance of the cases that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u25	You answer, I'm the one asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u26	Madam Colleague, we are not having a dialogue now. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u27	Here we had a woman Javert, literally today, Mr President, who is chasing children twenty years because they have committed a crime. It was a funny offence for which they were punished with thirty days in prison and were recognized by the court and the lightening of sincere remorse. Does the fact that they were punished for thirty days in prison have to stigmatize their lives? And they weren't given the sentence. The legal consequences came for this twenty-year-old child to be able to do this act - he stole a clothes worth EUR 70 and a watch of EUR 39 - not to be stigmatized and to find a job. That's the situation. Here's the question we're hearing today! For the other, a new child who had been dragged into the use of cannabis in twenty-three years came the President of the Republic and gave him the sentence, finding that both of these children had never committed another offence. And in the other case that my colleague mentioned, seeing this dossier - and here he says 'after attempted theft', we did not even have theft - he asked a girl to be appointed to the Municipality of Ioannistes. You're laughing, Mr. Colleague, but here we have human dramas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u28	Who are you telling?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Comrade, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u30	Is he addressing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u31	So, in order for this House to know, because the President of the Republic gave my own proposal and opinion to Hariton, it was a girl who had on her back a family, four or five, if I remember well, minor brothers who had lost their father and their mother had abandoned them and made this crime. And what did she ask, ladies and gentlemen, for this girl, who is here, as an example, to be appointed to the Municipality of Ioannistes? He asked to be appointed to the cleaning service, to collect the garbage in the Municipality of Ioannistes,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u32	There are other cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u33	...and this should be a stigma for a man who wants to live in dignity! Otherwise - hypocrisy! - We want them to be reinstated in society and have a future, leaving all these situations behind! Ladies and gentlemen, the modern Javerts that exist among us will never give a second chance to any of our fellow humans. They will always come here to say about the stigma that leaves an illegal act and claim that this stigma should never be lifted. But this - I said at the beginning of my dentistry - is claims and far-right rhetoric that I never expected here to hear from a progressive party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u35	These are claims, Mr President, that they do not honor anyone in this Chamber and I never expected to hear them from my colleague today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u37	The lack of arguments is evident!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u38	Subsequent to the fourth under number 2925/172/25-1-2018, the question and application for documents from the circle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Kegeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Subjects of medical staff from hospitals and health centres”. He will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Blonde. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u39	Yes, Mr President, but it is not possible for the Minister of Justice to call us extremes and leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Kegeroglu, excuse me, but his question is over. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u41	The question is over, the next one begins. So listen. For a subtle case, for which I complained, he did not recommend a favor. It was about a girl from Heraklion. But for all of them - they happen to be immigrants, it does not matter - that they have offences much more severely recommended. That is the question that needs to be answered. In any case, it is not that way, to describe us with what he described us as, because we have to tell him. Minister, we will be discussing a matter concerning the staffing of the National Health System and, of course, there has been a lot of talk in recent years, given that there are restrictions - and perhaps there will continue for a while - on the possibility of covering all gaps in medical staff in hospitals and health centres in the country. I would like to tell you in advance that there really are arguments for and against this. In other words, there are arguments that say "yes, the possibility of more than sixty-seven doctors who are currently very close, to a significant extent, to the same age limit" and there are those who say "no need to be done, because they really expect a world of very important, young people to enter the health system". I repeat that the question is under the realities, which wanted to limit the ability of the government - before and after today - to obtain the necessary staff. For all these excellent reasons, the question is whether there is any idea that there is a way of being given the opportunity to stay for a while until the gaps are filled, until the planned recruitment procedures for the next two years have been completed, that the doctors who enter the sixty-eighth year of their age will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u43	My dear colleague, I think that the debate on the shortcomings in medical resources and in general on the problematic staffing of the National Health System is a great debate. It cannot really be exhausted in this brief procedure of the timely question. Obviously, we will need a more extensive conversation between the political forces. The crisis has exacerbated the staffing of the ERC. That's true. There were five years that had been frozen the recruitment of permanent staff - from about 2010 to 2015 - while there were continually leaving due to retirement. Since you have asked about certain specific figures, I can tell you that in 2017 three hundred seventeen permanent doctors of the ESS left. Especially with regard to the 7th RES, which I imagine there is a more specific interest on your part due to origin, nineteen doctors left, fifteen of the hospitals and four of the health centres. And the forecast is that in 2018 three hundred sixty-four doctors will leave. Similarly, for the area of 7th HR they are eighteen doctors, sixteen from hospitals and two from health centres. Today, my dear colleague, they serve at the NSH sixteen and a half thousand doctors, including those who are qualified. It's about eight thousand six hundred permanent doctors in the ERC. It's about seven and a half thousand. This, however, is very important: we managed the period of these years of the crisis, despite the limitations and budgetary suffocation, to strengthen the health system with about two thousand more servants in 2015 as advisors. Today there are two thousand seven hundred to two thousand eight hundred auxiliary doctors in hospitals and health centers. In our view, this was a very important 'injection' of medical resources, which has contributed catalytically not to the collapse of public hospitals and health centres at this time due to dramatic subsidization. It is also very important that these years we have been proclaiming together with a package of some seven hundred fifty doctors, which will be published in the next few months, two thousand seven hundred sixty permanent doctors from the ESS and have been activated by old crises, from previous ones, from 2000 onwards, in 2008 to around 2011, when sixty permanent doctors from the ESS were then set aside. In other words, we have launched the recruitment - the process has not been completed, because it is under way and you know very well that the process of selecting the permanent doctors of the ESS - three thousand four hundred twenty-six hundred doctors in these years of crisis and the recruitment of two thousand eight hundred subsidiary doctors is too slow. This sums us up a reinforcement, a blood supply of over six thousand doctors by completing these recruitments. Of course, in the medium term, we had these departures I mentioned before, which together with those who left in 2015 and 2016 - which were fewer, were of the order of two hundred fifty doctors every year - left about a thousand doctors from the health system. I therefore think that we have a reversal of the withdrawal trend, in favour of recruitment since 2016. And that's very clear. In fact, despite the fact that within these three hundred sixty-four doctors leaving this year there are too many experienced doctors - to the extent of the coordinator, the manager - we really consider it to be a wrong signal to extend these people's work, particularly to young doctors who have migrated massively abroad. I would remind you that over the period of the crisis, over the last eight years, they have migrated to the countries of Central and Northern Europe by over eighteen thousand Greek doctors, about 25% to 30% of the country's active medical potential. It's a very big scientific haemorrhage. This is the phenomenon of Brain Drain, which I think is a real threat to the sustainability of our country's health system. It would be a great mistake, then, to say that we have been prolonging for another two years the possibility of working in the health system for people who have completed the sixty-seventh year of their age. We have therefore decided that this extension should not be granted, that there are several experienced doctors - and in positions of directors - who can also assume responsibility for the scientific management of the system and for meeting the needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u44	Good, Minister. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u45	Minister, I have told you at the outset that there are arguments in favour and against, and I think that you are listening very carefully to them, and so do I. You would be right that we would give the wrong signal and make a wrong decision if we did so, if we were to remove either three and a half thousand recruits from the thousands or from the hiring of any number of those left. Once we don't associate them and we don't remove them, this will be a world that will be more. In this sense I have been saying it from the outset, and I have been in favour of the prospect. In this sense, I think the Ministry should consider it over the period, because, unfortunately, as you have said, they are not even completed within the planned time limits - those which are planned - are not, unfortunately, completed within these margins, and we have an extension and, once and twice and three times, in the adoption of the final results. So invoking and asking to consider this is precisely a plus the number of scheduled recruitments that have already been launched or will be launched and in no case has it to do with contrast or cut recruitment. Away from any such thoughts! The same number of assistants who are forced to renew and hire shows precisely the big issue we have. Of course, it is a good thing that this institution also meets the needs of a considerable proportion. But it doesn't cover the whole of its preservation, and because the number has increased than it was before. Because alas if it hadn't grown! Alas, if we had the same assistants we once had! The system could not function satisfactorily. In that sense, I say that the evidence exists. You can do it - on a voluntary basis, of course - and do it once. Furthermore, the decision of the Council of State, which has been adopted on this matter, allows it, for one and two years, not to prohibit it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u47	My dear colleague, I want to say this. The quadruple of subsidiary doctors we received in 2015 was a political choice. It wasn't self-evident or given. There was more than threefold. Nearly four times the corresponding allocation provided for in the operating expenditure of the health system has been increased. The necessary redistributions of other resources have been made, the public system has been strengthened, the hospitals have been strengthened, precisely because we thought this is the need for society at this critical stage. There are still gaps, that's undeniable. We estimate that today is about four thousand vacancies of ERS doctors in hospitals and about a thousand five hundred in health centres, that is, a total of five and a half thousand. Remove the two thousand eight hundred supplementary doctors who are currently serving and the real gap is about three thousand. It really needs a strategic plan in the next period how, despite the constraints and the potential to fill vacant posts as a result of the one-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-year ratio, that is, recruitment-three years from 2019 overall in the public sector, we can, at a depth of four years, go to a serious design. We have already requested a study from the World Health Organisation, which will deliver us in September. On the basis of this and the guidelines it will give us, we will make a serious proposal, which we can discuss at some point in the Committee on Social Affairs. I repeat, however, that the crucial issue is to reverse this Brain drain from abroad. Here we are trying to give a signal to the young doctors in our country - who on the presumption have very high scientific standards and very good training, and that is why they differ in the foreign countries - that they have a decent scientific and professional perspective, obviously not with Europe's wages, but with a future guaranteed and more decent. What we do, then, to give this signal is, firstly, to publish positions on the public health system. So we're opening up positions and permanent doctors. I told you about these two thousand seven hundred sixty that we and six hundred sixty old people were engaged in. We're declaring places for local health units. We are now reopening the vacant posts that were held since the first notice in September last year. It seems that we have a great deal of interest and we will have hundreds of new family doctors serving new primary care structures. That's very hopeful. It is very important that about 80% of these family doctors are new doctors, who have recently finished a specialty and are looking for a perspective. We will also go to a new model of free professional doctors' contracts with the EEA, which will enable young doctors who have been excluded from previous years from the very closed - let me say - a system of doctors involved with the old funds, with the IKA and the other funds, to take part and therefore have a serious perspective. Of course we will try over time and gradually fill all these organic gaps that exist in the health system. I think this investment needs public care. Obviously it is not - I imagine that you are also dealing with it - recruitments that have rhesphetological logic, etc., but are aimed at meeting very important needs. We're strengthening emergency departments with five hundred permanent doctors and we've already announced the positions. It is a very big intervention to reorganise the first line of defense of hospitals managing the emergency. We've announced all empty organic locations of intensive care units. This is a very important stability intervention in this sensitive field of ICUs. We really need to set a target to open all the closed beds. In these years we have halved, and what I told you was a very important change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u48	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President. I hope in July that we will be able to call targeted four hundred - perhaps even four hundred - positions of qualified doctors, especially for rural and urban health centres throughout the country. We have a serious human development plan, and in particular the medical potential of the ESS, and I think that is exactly what ensures the sustainability of the system and the quality of the health sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. Subsequent to the fourth under number 1805/12-2018, a topical question from the New Democracy MP Arta George Stylios to the Minister of Health on the subject: “Illustration image presents the General Hospital of Artas”. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, my question concerns the bad image of collapse and the problems of the General Hospital of Arta. The problem, of course, is not today. I have referred to the problems of the Artas Hospital in previous questions and references to me in the context of parliamentary control, both in simple questions and in time, unfortunately without responding on the part of the Ministry of Health's political leadership. My question is identical to an earlier question and concerns the shortcomings in medical and nursing staff. More specifically, at the Radiation Laboratory, once the CT scan was solved, the doctors left. In the Pathology - Anatomic Laboratory, the same goes forth. In the Pulmonary and Psychiatric Clinical there are very great shortages of medical staff. The Physical Rehabilitation Center is down and staff shortages exist. My question also concerns the gaps in the logistics infrastructure. The bone density measuring machine has not been working for a year. The Artificial Nephrous Unit has been operating with the same equipment for twenty years and now, in the summer months, it is very burdensome because we have kidney patients coming from Athens to the region. You know the problem. Even the hospital elevator, due to a lack of maintenance, fails to function, and the elderly and patients are troubled. Finally, there is the question of cleaning workers, who have been unpaid for months, despite the triumphs of the hospital administration for a definitive solution to their problems. In view of all the above, you ask, Minister, what action you intend to take to resolve these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u53	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. Lower the turns a little by the disaster, because everything is evidence and data. Two years ago, the questions you asked were that we don't have doctors, we don't have money, we don't have that. Now we're here to be told they don't work on the elevator and the locomotive. Well, I'll answer everything in detail, in everything, one-one, because we don't let anything fall down. First, in 2015 you planned, as a government in 2014, that the Arta Hospital would take 6,671,000 euros. We gave 7,250,000 euros with the exceptional grant of 580,000 euros that we gave in the second half of 2015. In 2016 we gave 6.800,000 of the state budget. And for the first time after many years, the hospital took 330,000 from EEAY. In 2017 he took 6.730,000 from the General Accounting Office and took 3.110,000 euros from the EEAY, the first time in his history. A hospital is not destroyed, which three years ago and in 2014 only received 6,000,000 from the State General Accounting Office, and today it takes 6,700,000 and 3,000,000, that is, more than 10,000,000! One of the prisoners. Secondly, the Arta Hospital is not destroyed, because at the moment in two hundred twenty beds are serving thirty-six nurses to put things in place, because you are talking about deficiencies and I don't know what. At the moment, there are sixty-three qualified doctors - these are elements -, the intake of two curators II Psychiatry, one curator's position II Pathology, a position of qualified physician of pneumonology. These six posts I am now saying have been announced since 2016. This is pending on the relevant board, while three pneumonologists are serving in the Pneumonology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u54	He's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u55	No, he's not. They're three pneumonologists, and that's the fourth one. There is a curator's position, which has been completed by the board and is in the appointment process. It has also been announced with this year's notice of seven positions for the TLP of the Arta Hospital and a position of qualified doctor of radiodiagnostics. What you found out about the Pathological Anatomy was hired as an adjunct doctor, spent a year and resigned. A second adjunctive doctor was recruited who did not accept an appointment. The Pathologist is currently covered by a doctor who has been moved from another hospital and comes three times a week. In a subsequent notice, we will also have permanent posts. There has been such a thing before, which has not been interesting. The Center for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation has 12 staff. Unfortunately, you have built in the previous years twenty-six CFFs of which five operate. Now, in the new way that we are doing with subsidiary staff, we are providing for the possibility of hiring people there that can fully develop the functions. So it doesn't collapse one thing that has twelve staff! Third, about the part you're talking about now, about the machine of the bone density. It's a machine that's old, it wasn't the company's support, we found the edge. A new digital scanner must be purchased. It is in the tendering process to be purchased and placed and in common to be able to restart. That's it. Now, the elevators break down and are maintained. Can you ask the House a question? For Jesus Christ's sake, say! Now, what I want to stand on is this and I will speak very openly. Unfortunately, your commissioner at Arta has some previous times with the hospital, and I say so, when...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u56	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u57	It's okay. Respect is something that is conquered. Here we prove - and I have the data here and you'll get them - with specific figures that the hospital makes that intake it did with individual employment contracts is better for the staff, saving the hospital. They have not closed twenty-four months, no legal arrangements have been made that legalise their payment, despite the appeals made by contractors, etc., and he insists that he does not sign the payment order. He's done this since the beginning and it's conscious, it's intentional, it's challenging, it's unauthorized. We will resolve it there, as in many areas throughout Greece, which we have solved. Where the warrant has been lodged, people have been paid by law last time by the House and it continues to cause a problem for the Commissioner himself. We resubmit it to him and he doesn't sign it, like he's avenged people. It's our conscious choice to leave the contractors. The Arta Hospital was one of the first to do this and the commissioner is going to block it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u58	Minister, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u59	Wait a minute. He's at the Court of Auditors and we're waiting for a section decision. If there is no decision of the section, there will be a similar legislation which will allow people to be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Stile, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am not covered by the answer from the Minister, because the problems exist. As much as he wants to overthrow the situation, witnesses are the patients, complaints, reports of the local press, which have repeatedly been sent to the Ministry of Health and I have not received any answers. It doesn't cover me on the other hand. I'm making a reference to the past. "You had a smaller budget, we have a bigger budget." I question the Minister's evidence. As long as I was a government MP, I was dealing with the budget of the Artas Hospital. It is clear how the situation was then and how it is today and I know that the hospital budget was higher. At the moment, however, I am unable to say whether it was eight and a half million or nine and a half. I question what the Minister says in relation to the Ministry's budget. Surely health problems are not today, but the tragic situation of the hospital is really unprecedented and not compared to the past. So we are here to see what can be done from now on and really the answer does not cover me, because the Arta Hospital covers not only Arta but also the entire region, that is, the incidents from Preveza and from Lefkada and from the regions of Iato-Acarnania, Vonica, Amphiochia, but also from the mountainous Aetolocarnania and the mountainous villages of the Trikala. So we're talking about a hospital that, thanks to the valuable efforts of doctors and nurses, manages to cope with the problems of patients. But the state doesn't give them the means, because the shifts don't come out, Minister. That's the problem. Check it out. I have not heard one point of self-criticism from the Minister. Make a check on yourself and on the administration of the Hospital of Arta. Not to send answers and press releases to the local society, not to do parliamentary control. Check to see really what's going on, because that's the situation. Now we go to the big issue, to the cleaners and to the staff serving the hospital's feeding. In December 2017, that is, for the last six months, you signed the contracts and celebrated the hospital administration and the civil leadership of the Ministry of Health that we "we signed the contracts". I have here the statement from the hospital commander. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. I'll read it exactly as I've written it, but there's also the post from the local press. He says. I read only one line: 'I wish I would be the one to sign and sign them permanently'. Instead, what do we have today, Mr President? We have the following: 'It is because of the Court of Auditors, it is the Commissioner', it is because of everyone else except the Ministry of Health's political leadership. What are the consequences, Minister? We have forty people without being paid to work in four hours, get 300 euros a month - these are your contracts - and now begging for 200 euros to live their families. 'Preparation' costs, 'current' rents, 'current current'. We're talking about poor families. To work as cleaners, it means they're in trouble. The answer? Take the initiative. I expect you to come here and say to me 'with a specific timetable, with this amendment, I will resolve the problem', because the decision has been taken by the Commissioner from Arta and has come to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors - that is what they are letting go through - is, according to the information, giving a negative answer. What will the workers do? They're worried. That is why I am telling you, in order to resolve the problem of the citizens. I didn't come here to do a micropolicy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u63	First of all, I don't care if I convinced you, Mr. President. The evidence is evidence, the numbers are numbers and you can get them. To say that you are not convinced of these figures, which we are tabling and you will get, that is a problem that I cannot help in its solution. It is a pretext that the indebtedness of the Arta Hospital, as well as of many hospitals in the country, has increased very much. Flying a word, that is, that you were watching the budget and then it was higher, is something to cover up the inadequacy of what you say. Second, let me fill in something.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u64	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u65	That's right, Mr. Style. What can we say? You got the TV. You will now hear and what the reality is. What you said about the artificial kidney units doesn't apply. Because I forgot to tell the previous question that machines - six and two, eight and one, nine and two - the number is 11 after 2006 and the last two are from 2018. There is a number of old machines, which have been in 1997, which are six. And there are too many artificial kidney machines that we have replaced throughout the country. Also, let me tell you that in these two years it has been integrated into an energy upgrade programme for two million euros, it has been reformed and created by hospital warehouses, the formation of a restaurant for doctors, TPE interface and haematological connection, the installation of a CT scanner from the hospital's own resources. If the hospital didn't have any money, he couldn't do that. There was also the development of hospital floors from regional resources and the installation of new steam again from regional resources. When we started the story of individual contracts, you fought it to the point where it was no longer going. Your policy was history with contractors. It was your policy, which blew expenditure, in the midst of a crisis, about a hundred million euros in relation to what they gave before a crisis, because that was where the deals were. At the moment, as far as hospitals have become individual contracts - and there are many of us, and in other words we have blocked various judicial decisions - we have, firstly, saved at least 25% from the first year, in relation to what we have given and, secondly, all workers are making a lot more money for their own working time. Here I answered you very specifically and do not now act as defender of the innocent and the weak, because here was Mr. Economou, who said that 'all of us will fire them!' It's a little challenging to get a defender out of me. This is where a particular Commissioner blocked it. We are following a specific legality. What can we do? We are following this legality. The Court of Auditors must respond and the relevant decision will be taken on the basis of the Court of Auditors' decision. Because if it justifies it, it solves it. If it does not, there will be new legislation. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. Here is the sixth question (No 1754/5-6-2018) by MP Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios Publisher to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The administrative segregation of the Dimotio Hospital presupposes his armour with staff and equipment". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have lost count of the continuous postponements of the debate on captivity, paradox, inefficient administrative dependence of the Dumoupe Hospital on Alexandroupolis. I express my displeasure and transfer you the indignation of a county. Really, what's the cause of this delay? Why do you despise the House? Why do you care? Is this the sensitivity you display in an aesthetic and neuroleptic prefecture in the country? I should like to make it clear from the outset, Mr President, that the serious deficiencies and malfunctions of the Dumos Hospital should not be a political controversy. It should, however, be a point of finding solutions to the problem. Minister, from today's debate we must leave with specific commitments from you on behalf of the Government on the problems of the hospital, covering the needs of some ninety thousand people in central and northern Evros. I have submitted to you, in the last three and a half years, timely questions and written parliamentary reports on this subject. Unfortunately, you have not solved the problem, which is a constant demand from the actors and residents of the county, but mainly from the central and northern Evros. As a government, you personally, the Minister of Health, the Prime Minister's Office, your predecessor, Mr Kurublis - in the Dumotite - but also the members of the SYRIZA - have undertaken that you will soon make a decision to separate the two hospitals. So far, we have only heard hollow words, Mr President, without a reflection. Despite the fact that several bills from the Ministry of Health have come, unfortunately there is not in your "secret", in your political account, the Twins. Firstly, we would like you to tell us when the autonomy and autonomy of the hospital is going to happen. At the same time, if you will proceed with this process, will you have the necessary jobs? Will you provide the necessary logistics? Are you in the mood to do it? Will there also be legislative care in order to mediate a transitional phase for separating the Dumos Hospital, as well as health centers, until new personnel are placed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u69	Mr Colleague, I will reply to you very specifically. First of all, your government united it at the Dumos Hospital, so we don't forget about it. Because you're saying you've asked questions against the government that doesn't separate it. I have not seen the period when you ruled to have asked any questions to disconnect. You remembered after that. The Dumos Hospital - like many hospitals in the country - has been strengthened too. From 4 million euros it takes 5 million euros from the General Accounting Office plus about 500,000 euros from the EEA. It was also financed with 2,700,000 euros to repay dues, which were not our own government. That's about the money. You have a hundred twenty beds and they serve a hundred forty nurses. You don't have a problem with a lack of nursing personnel. And because in your question you write 'limital point', 'cannot provide', etc., I will reply with numbers. The hospital was hospitalized last year by eight thousand six hundred thirty three patients. He did a thousand six hundred seventy seventy-seven surgery. 63% was general surgery, 19.5% in obstetrics - gynaecology, while 18.5% in orthopaedics. He had thirty - seventy - four visits to regular external medical services, that is, a hundred - six visits per day and had twenty - four thousand seven hundred visits to the emergency department, sixty - eight visits per day. They have already been hired, from earlier notices made by our own government, a curator's pathologist B, a surgeon curator B, an orthopedic curator B. A neurologist's proclamation came out, while the intake process of anesthesiologist - which was found - was completed. Also, in 2018, a neurologist - a urologist, two microbiologists, a psychiatrist, a child psychiatrist and a cook from the 7K proclamation are expected to be expected. They were recently hired: one cabin assistant, an assistant medical labs, a medical device operator and seconded - two nurses were moved to the hospital from elsewhere and because of their co-service. All of this does not show a picture of destruction and dissolution, to explain and not be misunderstanded. Furthermore, as regards logistical equipment, an overall proposal for EUR 1,81 million for the renewal of the hospital equipment has been included in the 2014-2020 NSRP. The CT problem is solved. It's not a personal matter. The lamp, which will be replaced, as we have replaced too many throughout Greece in the old equipment that has many hospitals. There's no charge on the patients. A contract has been signed during this period and until it is replaced. Also, we have given from the Ministry of Health’s reserve and for a surgical bank and for covering the floors of the artificial kidney. Separation will be made. We've announced it. We don't get it back. It doesn't malfunction the hospital because it's connected, but there was nothing the unification we did. And the years you have ruled you used this interconnection - which we have not done - to get staff from the Dumotich to go to the hospital in Alexandroupolis, which has had great gaps, but now this has been strengthened. So, on the basis of this data, it is in the bill the institution, which will separate health regions as well. There will be separation, not only of your own, but also of hospitals such as the "university" of Larissa with "Koutlimblaio", such as the "Venizelio" and "PAGNI", such as hospitals on the islands of the eastern Aegean, such as Kozani with Ptolemaida, etc., which will then all be separated, together with the change in health areas, the break-up of the 6th Health Region, the break-up of the 4th Health Area, etc. Then it will be done. As you know, we had a great and heavy legislative work. There has been an attempt to get this in July, but it is a serious bill to get it into the summer sections, which is why it will take place in September or October, because it also has education inside and has much more. I've got some stuff for the primary school.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u70	All right, Minister, the rest in your dentistry. Thank you very much. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you don't know the history of hospitals, despite the fact that you're Deputy Minister of Health. You haven't been informed, obviously, so I won't blame you. The hospital was separated in 2011 by law of the Greek state and by government of George Papandreou...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u72	That is what I mean by 'jointing'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u73	He wasn't together. Do not forget what you must not forget. Secondly, we are talking today about the problem of selfishness and autonomy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u74	I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u75	You replied to me at the end, but you've thrown a lot of gold dust into trouble...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u76	No gold dust. It's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u77	...which is currently facing the hospital and our people who are listening to you, I wish they wouldn't laugh. But we highlight the separation, because we claim the consensual and velvety divorce of the two hospitals, but we want a dowry because the hospital will collapse the next day you vote for the law, as you have committed, but you have not said when. Let us hope that this is not an election firework and a mockery towards a people who, in fact, have been waiting for this problem to be resolved for three and a half years, despite the fact that you have made repeated promises. I would like to stress, Mr President, that the people of central and northern Evros claim self-respect and seek security through the proper operation of the Dumot Hospital. This well-functioning function, unfortunately, is something that is aimed at and that is due to the wrong policies you have implemented, but above all, it is due to the maladministration in the two hospitals, despite the fact that officials, managers, scientific staff, nurses and doctors are taking serious action, have overcome themselves and are supporting the functioning of the hospital. You have not been informed that clinics are not working. You have not been informed that there are no doctors. Unfortunately, this is the situation. What we want, Minister, since you will proceed to this process of self-determination and autonomy, which is pursued by all the prefecture, because you have unequivocally integrated things and tolerated them in this way, you will absolutely have to ensure the next day from autonomy, which, as you have promised, will emerge soon, but you have not told us when. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u79	And only by the way of your dentistry seems to have covered you with the first answer. Do not constantly repeat the account of destruction. The situation in hospitals, Mr. Congregation, 2018 in relation to 2015 and 2014 has nothing to do with it. In 2014 and 2015, hospitals were demolished. Now they have stabilised and developed everywhere, across Greece, from the Twinmotich to Gadus. That's the reality. As much as you repeat it, it doesn't change reality, it lives at home. SKAI may play a disaster for Symi today, but when they had no agricultural doctors at all, it did not spend a second. Now that he's got one and one soldier, they missed the doctor. When you didn't have a series of specialties that were hired in the previous period, you didn't ask questions. All right, Mr. Loverdos was separating. The other two and a half years that you have ruled, why didn't you impose separation on your government? Why separation then was the logic of how to squeeze and cut costs. We, and now united, supported EUR 1 000 000 a year in total, hired those who told you and entered the financial programme. Do not tickle at a level one thing that you have done, which you have tolerated, and which we, for operational reasons, will change, but until we change it, we have strengthened it, because this division must go along with the separation of the health regions. So, in this great institutional bill, which will come in the autumn of the House, there will be separation not only in your own hospital, because we cannot do just in your own hospital - in your region hospital I mean, it is not yours, the Greek people it is - and it will also be with the eastern Aegean and the others I said in my first speech. Blow up a little bit better. I'm going to testify this evidence again to get it for you too. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr. Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Read this information, make a comparison with the budgets and 2013 and 2014 and what you planned for 2015, make a comparison of how many were there then and how many are now serving, make a comparison of which doctors have now come and what were there and then to talk about the disaster again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the third question by Member Drama of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, is followed by the third with the number 3195/5-2-2018 question by the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The establishment of the General Hospital of Drama with anesthetics and health centres of the prefecture with medical staff". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to believe from what had been said from Crete, Evros, Epirus, coming to Drama...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u82	I'm coming for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. I think positive, but from what I have heard so far, unfortunately, it was disappointing to hear what has been said in terms of meeting the needs of other hospitals in the country. I want to bring you the agony, the emergency signal, which emits the medical and nursing staff of the General Hospital of Drama and the Health Centers, too, the valuable effort of the administration, Minister. As I am aware, the lack of sufficient anaesthetics poses a huge problem in the proper conduct of surgery, and not only this, the second operating bank is now threatened with closure. This question, Minister, came at the beginning of the year. Unfortunately, after a six-month period, we expect a positive response at least today. Although there should be a minimum of five doctors in the hospital, only two are currently serving. The number falls considerably short of what is necessary. As a result of this morbid situation, patients who are waiting either to resort to public nursing establishments outside the prefecture or to refer to private clinics. On the basis of this issue, the Ministry is called upon to take a global view of the problems not only of Drama Hospital but also of the health centres of the county, in order to strengthen medically but also of infrastructure. I am aware of the need to cover at least two of the five empty organic positions of doctors in general medical professions and for the safety of this unit, while at the same time covering the empty positions of a pediatrician, microbiologist and dentist, without, of course, forgetting the need to cover the lack of medical staff, the immediate intake of which is required for the purposes of the safe operation of the circular working hours imposed on these services. Analogous urgent needs are presented by the Health Centres of Lower Neuroscope and Paranestium, which the state has practically forgotten. As far as Paranesti is concerned, which also covers the central and medical needs of the Immigration Centre, where some five hundred immigrants are being held with increased care problems, medical staff, dentist, microbiologist and, of course, medical equipment is not available, for example, cardiological, dental equipment does not exist. Of course it is not possible - I say it is impossible - not to have an ambulance in a health centre far from Drama for over sixty kilometres. The existing one is transferred to the general hospital in order to meet the needs of the hospital. Minister, I would ask you to tell us the actions of your Ministry, although it has been a semester, whether something has been done about the general hospital and health centres. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Comrade, I'm starting with the financial data. In 2015, you scheduled Drama Hospital to be sponsored with 5,225,000 euros. It was finally sponsored with 5,675,000 euros. In 2016, 5,864,000 euros were provided by the General Accounting Office and 1,996,000 euros by EEAY. Total, about 8,000 euros. In 2017, it took 3.365.000 euros from the General Accounting Office and 5.367,000 euros from EEAY, again 8,000,000 euros and something from where it only had 5,200,000 euros. One of the prisoners. I love you laughing when we prove you with certain numbers where you convicted them and where they've arrived.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u86	We've got one all the time. I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u87	It's okay. If reality doesn't interest us, so much worse for reality. Apart from this, Mr. Kyriazidis, the hospital also took EUR 4.336,000 for payment of due debts, which you had created when you were government. One of the prisoners. Let's go down. In 2016, sixteen people were recruited in your hospital, two nursing staff, sixteen administrative staff, one pharmacist and one pharmacy assistant. In 2017, seven people were recruited at your hospital, five nursing staff, five administrative staff and one pharmacist. In 2018, five members of nursing staff were recruited, four persons of paramedical staff and two more persons are waiting for a notice, a total of eleven. In 2017, twenty-three of the OAED programme, four of the ancillary staff other than doctors have been recruited and forty-nine people have been recruited with fixed-term contracts for cleaning, feeding and storage. Also since 2015, thirteen permanent doctors of the following specialties have been recruited in your hospital of “destruction”. A doctor of orthopaedic specialists, a doctor of pediatrics, a neurologist, three biopathologists, an radiodiagnostic post-education in pediatrics, a nephrologist, an ophthalmologist, a dentist, a physician of pathologist and two anaesthetics speciality for the ICU. The evaluation process has been completed and three IF doctors have been sent to the Ministry and are in the process of appointment with the notice for everyone. Also in March 2018, eight other posts were declared permanent and are at the stage of the crisis involving the recruitment of a medical practitioner, two anaesthetics of a permanent and five physicians to serve the emergency department. The problem created by anesthesiologist is covered by a mobile colleague from an agricultural medical profession that makes the agricultural and is anesthesiologist. It has three and a four now, and the positions of the two skilled and permanent anestheticists are proclaimed in the air. Apart from those at the hospital, fourteen subsidiary doctors with a three-year term were hired, who are: Two gynaecologists, two biopathologists, two cardiologists, two pathologists who one left because of taking up a place in another hospital, a nephrologist, a ophthalmologist, an ORL, a urologist and a radiodiagnost who resigned and made a request for his replacement - it is expected to be appointed very soon in the next few days - and a doctor with a specialist surgery. There are some requests in connection with recruitment of the style of food technology, electricians, heaters, coolers, plumbers, which is a more general problem in hospitals and which we will now cover directly through the new way of recruiting subsidiary staff. However, I do not think that all of this is an abstract picture of abandonment. All of this and funding and staff form a picture of clear reinforcement of the hospital. Also, to know that there are too many district hospitals and with the places that have been announced, there are doctors who put places in some central hospitals. In the middle of the day, there might be a problem. We're trying to cover it up in all ways. Now, as far as health centers are concerned, shall I answer now or in my dentext?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u88	Minister, leave it for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u89	For the health centers, I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u90	Mr Dimitris Kyriazides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u91	Minister, the report of ideas is very good, but reality is far away. As far as the lack of medical staff is concerned, the needs to some extent are covered by subsidiary doctors, but the problem still exists in several specialities, as no permanent medical staff are recruited. The positions of doctors who are covered according to old - I would say - an organogram falls short of 50%. Fifty-two permanent doctors, fifteen adjuncts, and should be under the present establishment plan, which is incomplete, should be one hundred. As regards the lack of personnel in auxiliary services, there is a lack of technical service by plumbing, electricians, general staff - the transport of medicines and materials is carried by a contractor and the transport of garbage in part by a contractor - and the existing staff have to take owed licences, etc. and be poured out a long time. The lack of a cook can also temporarily not be done with a contractor. The staffing of the ICM must be carried out by recruiting the appropriate staff, medical and nursing, so that the development of all seven beds that it has and not just three as it currently exists. The change of the hospital organisation with the creation of a second pathological clinic, which will also have a similar oncology section - which you committed in September, at the beginning of the year, to operating - unfortunately remains in the papers or reports you have been doing so far. I'll testify to the Minutes. So, Minister, and the budget you are referring to is incomplete by 50%, of what you are referring to. Of course, there is also a reference to cleanliness contractors, who have to pay a lot of time. Now this is where you brought us that everything works perfectly. All this, Minister, which I mentioned earlier, is not for me to make an opposition. The workers, the doctors, the nurses, the rest of the staff. ‘Working of agony emit the workers. With half medical staff, he works, compared to 2009, Drama Hospital." These are these workers, Minister, who, when as government with the then Minister of Health, we went to the hospital, were prejudged by these workers who are now indebted to you. So they report all this and report it from the beginning of last month. At the beginning of the year, I made this report myself and I did not receive it, Minister. Although the hospital had been reinforced, the ICU did not function when we took over. A CT scan was installed, reconstructed health centers were reconstructed, the budget increased as you said, you supported some hospitals about a million, while you from the Ministry's budget for Drama Hospital made money - you may not know it, the U.S.P.D. in particular - in other hospitals in the area at the expense of the hospital. That is the reality, Minister. These are mentioned by workers and not by speakers, perhaps under opposition. I would like to present to you what you have been committed to the establishment plan since the beginning of the year. Unfortunately, we are staying in the notices, but this work has been repeated so long for so many hospitals. I wish we could finally look at it, and not by election, because at the time it seems to me that you are driving all these commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u93	Only anyone who doesn't want to see doesn't see. I have answered you earlier with information which is public positions and you can check who is telling the truth, whether I am telling you the truth or you are saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u94	Employees call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u95	What can I tell you now? Listen to me. The fact that the workers say it... And Giannakos says it's a disaster. Is he really saying? He's lost his access to power and he's screaming. What can we do now? Because anyone comes out and says what they want? Here are elements in particular. Today they are serving fifty-five specialists and we have taken thirteen permanents, plus fourteen auxiliarys in addition to fifty-five. How many people were serving two years ago, Mr. Cryazides?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u96	So they're lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u97	Okay, calm down now. Also someone I forgot to say before, is that it has entered the NSRF 2014-2020 medical equipment 2,333,000 for the hospital, 200,000 more for the monitors from the ICM and also the supply of beds and necessary third programme that is integrated and is in the process of implementation, 1,000,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u98	New Democracy did this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u99	That's the current one. No, you didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u100	In 2014 he did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u101	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.. We're going down to the health centers I didn't answer before. Look. At the Neuroscope Health Center, not to say now in general and in vague terms, ten staff and twelve doctors are serving a total of twenty - two. Two intakes of doctors are expected to still be made out of the existing notices. Thirteen people of nursing, paramedical, administrative staff, five doctors of general medicine and a pediatrician are serving in the Paradestiu Health Center. A TSE of Radiology is expected, which has completed the proclamation. There are sixteen nursing, paramedical and administrative staff and six doctors, of whom a pediatrician. That's twenty-two people. Twenty-two at the Center of Health of Protosani, nineteen at the Center of Health of Parenestio and twenty-two at the Centre of Health of Nerokomio. I do not think these centres are subordinated. So we don't go crazy. Also in the three regional hospitals of Kallithea, Adriane, Rivers serve three doctors. I would advise you before you ask the questions, look a little more closely at the specific elements, because you may have taken a central line of opposition in relation to things, but there are facta here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u102	No relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u103	Thirteen permanent doctors have been recruited plus fourteen assistants. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u104	Are you gonna tell us how many people left the hospital?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u105	Mr Kyriazidis, this is not the case, you know and you insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u106	Let them insist. They're ruining the account. They have taken a line "destruct, destruction, destruction". You're telling them so much, we've given them so much. That's how many you got. Those machines were there, that's what we made, that's what we did. They say the same thing again. Uh, I can't help them. It's another doctor's case. What can we do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u107	Come to Drama, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I will inform you of the timely questions which will not be discussed. The third, with number 1830/19-6-2018, topical question from the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Karayannides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Confidence of the ICD's obligations of nurses/parents and the rights arising therefrom", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the questioner. The fifth under No. 1800/12-2018 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Mandas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Global blood donor day and National Center for Haemorrhage", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the questioner. The ninth under No. 1810/13-6-2018 topical question of the second cycle of the Member of the Thessaloniki Association of Centres Mr. Aristides Fokas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Dramatic toll increase", will not be discussed due to lack of competence, as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is responsible. The third, with number 1884-26-2018, timely question for the first cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Unfavourable developments regarding the Greek Sugar Industry", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos. The seventh question, No. 1729/30-5-2018, topical question of the second question of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Forest capacity of the Greeks", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos. The thirteenth, with number 1518-17-2018, a topical question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and Independent MEP, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the problems of four million borrowers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou. The fourth under number 1853/25-2018 topical question for the first cycle of Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Read further clarifications on the irreversible in the Armed Forces", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos, who will be in the oath of new flags at the Navy School. The first 1860-25-6-2018 top-circuit question of the first cycle of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Governmental Plan for the Greek Defence Systems (ESA)", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotios Kouvelis, who will be in the vow of new signifiers at the Naval Dope School. The first 1861-25-2018 topical question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An unjustified increase of objective values in Purple and Alykes Volos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the State Secretary of Finance Mr. Catherine Papanatziou. The second question under number 1855-25-2018, topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need to restore the injustice against the owners of the refugee camps called upon to pay for an exotic ENVIA", will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou. The eighth Question No 1753/5-6-2018 by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, Member of the New Democracy MP, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Reimbursement of a seafront or “front” improvisation,” will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou. The tenth under number 1588/3-5-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the future of the Greek Defence Industry", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr Fotio Kouvelis. Eleventh, under number 1538/23-2018, a topical question from the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotius Kouvelis. The twelfth under No. 1539/23-2018 topical question from the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of army officers in a party course of the KKE", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotios Kouvelis. The second question by No 5420/25-2018 by the Independent MEP Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Buy of ready-to-hand weapons systems", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fotios Kouveli. The first with number 6010/308/16-2018 question and application for the submission of documents by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Yiannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Extreme cases of financial controls", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. George Huliarakis. Cause: Workload. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-02-S1-commons.u109	With the consent of the House at 19.43 the sitting for the next Wednesday, July 4, 2018, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
