ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before we begin with the debate on the first topical question for tonight, I would like to read out some of the questions that will not be discussed. The fourth under number 55/11-10-2018, a top-stage question by Congressman I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed. The fourth under number 2/1-10-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Anysts of violence have taken place in the demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Ambassadors' agreement", will not be discussed. Also, the ninth under number 43/9-10-2018 topical question of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “About a philosophical event in Florina”, will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u3	Here, my colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. As far as I hear, only the topical questions of the Golden Dawn are not discussed. Last Saturday, the so-called "Macedonian Culture House" attempted to organize in Saint Panteleimon Florinas a dancer with the aim of propagandaing extremist positions similar to those invoked by Zafe on the occasion of the conclusion of the Prespecies Agreement. Ultimately, the Skopje event failed miserably because what it had to do was to make a state that wanted to be called serious, the Golden Dawn did so. Instead of preventing the outbreak of phenomena affected by International Law, our history, even the agreement you signed with the Skopje Government, the national reflexes of the Greeks triggered by the Golden Dawn had to be supported by calling for a protest in this village. It is clear that these injustices at the expense of our country can only lead to tragedies. At a time when the supreme court of our country invokes the possibility of national harmful elements of an alpha-corruption status in the statute of the so-called "Macedonian Culture House", which is also due to the Golden Dawn by reference to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, the Government is indifferent and - worse still - it refuses to come to Parliament to discuss a major national issue. I will present to you, for the Minutes, the decision of the Ice Arena which among other things says that the ancient Macedonians were undoubtedly Greeks, donor or, otherwise, windy sex. This is the decision of the Ice Arena I will testify for the Minutes. We also appealed. The Court of Appeal is drafted by this decision of the Ice Bay and says in conclusion that the recognition of the Association runs counter to the need for peaceful coexistence of the citizens of the region and, by extension, the peace of the country. I will then testify to you for the minutes and the decision of the Court of Appeal. As much as you ignore reality, know that your silence is the loudest answer to the key questions that we ask you. If you think that by avoiding us you will manage to hide the problems under the carpet, be sure that your horror to deal with us with dialogue and arguments proves with whom the truth is. I give you the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, Member Eleni Zaroulia submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, there will also be no discussion of any other topical questions. Thus, the first question under number 62/16-10-2018 of the Second Cycle of MP Pelli of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "Integration of the Pelli Prefecture in the 1st zone for the grant of the heating oil allowance", will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister responsible with the MP. The other questions that will not be discussed will then be read out in order to start the process. Therefore, the first question under number 63/16-10-2018 will be discussed in the first cycle of the MP Kozanis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Themistoklis Mumulides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The increase in VAT to concerts in 24% is devastating for Greek music and Greek creators and artists". The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I thank you for being here to answer a very important point, which I am bringing to Parliament in the form of a timely question, because I think that there is no extension of VAT of 24% in concerts, namely the public execution of musical works, classical or modern. As you know, the area of music and, in particular, the space of the Greek song during the period of the economic crisis that has experienced - sadly for the area of Greek music - with the crisis and the Greek record, but also with the crisis in collective management, that is, the phenomenon of GDP that we have all followed in the last two years, has as a unique revenue any revenue from the live performances, from the "live" of Greek artists and artists. The successive increase in VAT in concerts from 13% to 23% and from 2016 to 24% I think it is forbidden to operate the profession of musicians, Greek creators in their live performances. Because VAT is a decisive factor in the formation of the final price of the ticket, the price of the ticket is a barometer in the psychology of the viewers and the concerts are an extremely communication species for the psychology of the whole society, because Greek artists and artists are affected by unemployment that exceeds 95%, i.e. the space of modern civilization is the place most affected by any other, because in our country modern culture during the crisis is the great wrongdoer, we think it is our duty to contribute and help the survival of professions that are inclined to disappear. So, Minister, you ask: why when the VAT in a similar form of artistic expression, such as the theatre, is 6%, why is Greek music considered as a luxury and is punished by VAT 24%, with the side effects we have said? Secondly, do you intend to consider reducing VAT on musical events and concerts when these are scheduled in open outdoor theaters, in archaeological theaters, but also in closed theaters - I am clarifying this, because it is a very important observation - to contribute with this reduction in VAT to the reduction of unemployment and to the renewal of interest in an area particularly affected, in an area that will be particularly helpful and which will create a new perspective? I appreciate that with VAT 24% on modern culture Greece cannot go anywhere. I will come back to dentistry with what is happening in the rest of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mumulides. Madam Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, what has been said by the Member, Mr Mumulides, on the subject of concerts is issues, opinions and proposals that are not opposed either to me personally or to our Ministry, but of course neither to our Government. In fact, culture was one of the fields particularly affected in the years of the crisis. One of the main objectives for the period we are going through, as we leave the memorials behind, is the restoration of access to cultural goods, arts and entertainment. We do not consider that to be secondary. It's part of our plan for the next day. In previous years one of the measures taken under the financial programme was the increase in VAT from 13% to 24% since the summer of 2015. In the new era we can see our political priorities, of course, safeguarding our financial data. We believe that the fair growth for which all of us are concerned cannot be achieved without spiritual regeneration. Here I would like to stress that we must resist and reverse the spiritual misery that surrounds us. In this context, we, too, must contribute as a Treasury by reducing VAT, as is the case, to the theatre tickets and concert tickets - in cases where there is no other provision - to 6%. This measure we believe can directly affect the costs of attending concerts and live musical performances for citizens. It can also directly reduce the price of the ticket, as you said before, bringing more people to all these sightings. It may support, however, those in the background, as you say, in the field of artists, the creators, will increase their incomes, the professions associated with the spectacles, the technical sounders, and they will be able to have some more gains. I believe that our Government should do so and will do so, because it aims to defend culture, education and the promotion of Greek and not only culture, not only through the theatre, as you say, but also through music, musical theatre events and the performances that combine different forms of art. All of this really needs to be treated in a uniform way as cultural goods, because for us our cultural production is an asset for the future. For our Government information, culture and entertainment are primarily social rights and public goods.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr. Mumulides, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Madam Secretary, I'm glad you're placed. It's an optimistic placement. I would like to say that in this Chamber few times have heard issues relating to Greek culture. I believe that it is also an unfair delay in the debate on the debate that is taking place in Parliament and on Greek culture. I think that the Greek culture and the specific area we are talking about now, the space of Greek song and music, has offered the greatest historical value to modern culture and to the enhancement of the quality of life of Greek society. We should be aware that in the areas where we are talking about, namely the Greek composers, the Greek musicians, in the field of Greek music and the Greek song, there are people who have invested a lot of time and money for their studies, people who have families and obligations, as well as every worker, and people who have dreamed - unfortunately for them or happily - of living by creating and offering society as a whole. I believe that it is an obligation for all to defend Greek creators in every way. It is one of the few times when, in the last ten years, voices have been heard in Parliament in favour of Greek creators, and we must defend this. It is our obligation to create an environment of protection and extroversion that will ultimately have the Greek taxpayer, the Greek society, since the reduction of VAT in the lowest category will create lower ticket prices, lower unemployment, higher turnover and therefore greater revenue. Therefore, the issue you raise in budgetary control, I think, is answered by every discreet person. I think, however, that it is unfair to continue to classify a folk form of artistic expression - because classical music is also a popular form of artistic expression and our folk music is folk music - this extremely beneficial to society and human soul creation, to luxury goods. At the same time, you realise that VAT beyond unemployment creates a serious loss of revenue, which is most important. I should like at this point to mention about history, because it is worth seeing - as we are all confessing to a different Europe - what is happening in Europe. In this chapter Europe seems to be doing very well. We therefore have VAT in Cyprus 5%, in Belgium 6%, in Germany 5% and 7%, in Italy 10%. I would like to mention the example of France, which, as you know, is France, which defends its modern culture and its culture over time as a strong national capital, has invested and gained too much, which I hope will happen to Greece soon. In France, therefore, for any stage show, for theatre, music, dance, musical theater, VAT is 2.1% for the first hundred forty-one performances. After the hundredth percentile first performance, VAT becomes 5.5%. It's 5.5% in the first place if there are other benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think, therefore, dear Minister, that it can be a common objective of the spectacle society of Greek creators and the government to implement economic policies that help and encourage the development of the entire arts, which I repeat will not only have budgetary costs, but will create a boom, a spring in modern Greek everyday life, which will result in greater revenues in the final part of insurance contributions and the part of tax revenues. So we want you to study clearly the subject of the single VAT 6% in all the activities of performing arts, theatre, music, concerts of contemporary classical music, dance and especially music theatre. There is a very nice parentheses, which the music theatre, that is, the combination of music and theatre, what we call musical, has a VAT also peculiar. Look at him. It's not 24%, it's in between.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Comrade, please complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding. I think this is a fair request that will relieve thousands of Greek workers, thousands of Greek creators, will create positive reflexes in Greek society and finally as a modern government and as a leftist government, we will bring it to Greek reality. We will understand, in other words, that culture is not a kind of luxury, but a kind of alternative to other kinds of first need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mumulides. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u14	Indeed, the examples you mentioned from the other European countries are very important and we see that it is very low the VAT on culture and indeed on specific events. As I said in my first speech, culture was indeed from the fields that were particularly affected in the years of the crisis and in terms of the possibilities for production, but also in terms of the world's ability to have access to it. As a government we have taken some measures in terms of culture, that is, we have seen free access from the unemployed to museums, monuments and archaeological sites. We must now see some other measures, such as the ones we mentioned above by reducing VAT and at the concerts, so that they can also gain more financial access to places such as, for example, the Lyric Scene, the Herodion, the Concert Hall of Music, where the great spectacle, domestic and foreign comes. Especially in these areas, apart from the concerts, there are productions from abroad that the ticket is too high, so by reducing VAT we will be able to make them more accessible to more people. So the measure that you are proposing, which we are also considering and which we see as being able to bring, that is 6% of the showcases, will open the gates to more people, as these prices can be made more accessible and we will also have the results we want, that is to say, to strengthen cultural creation, to strengthen employment in areas directly linked to the cultural sector. Of course, as the Ministry of Finance that we are interested in public revenues, as we are expected to see an increase in the turnover of businesses operating in the artistic area, we will also have the corresponding results. I think we can do it in all three areas. We are committed for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to the next timely question, I will read a few questions that will not be discussed. The seventh question, number 28/8-10-2018, on the second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible. Furthermore, the second question by number 68-16-10-2018, the first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Christos Stagiras, to the Minister of Finance, on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek government and making available for social purposes", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis. Cause: workload. Also, the fifth under number 36/8-10-2018, a topical question by MP Phhototis of the New Democracy Mr Christos Stakosouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Assessment of General Government expenditure", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgios Huliarakis. Cause: workload. Also, the fifth question under number 52/10-10-2018, the first question of the Greek Parliamentary I of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: “Obligation to apply the laws of the Greek state by the Greek courts of all levels”, will not be discussed due to a workload. We continue with the third with number 61/16-10-2018 timely question of the First Cycle of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Why are you not accepting the amendment of the DISSY's amendment to the medically supervised use of psychotropic substances? Can a National Action Plan against Drugs be drawn up without National Coordinator?’ This timely question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos. Your Honor, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, good evening. Thank you for coming today. On the 25th of last month you issued a letter asking, among other things, for proposals from all stakeholders, with a view to developing an action plan to deal with drugs. Here were two surprises, among other things, as I said: First, the fact that you issued it, effectively bypassing the National Coordinating Authority for Drugs and National Coordinator, which has not been in place since July and secondly, that in one of the paragraphs of the letter concerned, it is stated that the Ministry has drawn up a proposal for the establishment and operation of supervised drug use sites, after having rejected our own one and a half months ago. To stay in the first place, first I asked you last July a question about the formation of the National Drugs Plan, in the context of the operation and action of the National Drug Coordinator, which, as you know well, existed from n.4139/2013 until July. There's the service, but there's no head. The term of office of this particular Coordinator has expired. The project, the reason for the existence and the object of the alleged project was to set up national projects. Looks like nothing's happened. Today, we see that you are taking, bypassing the principle, the starting-up initiative, from zero to practically zero, as it seems, of a drug plan, which is a good one, but some questions arise: what happened from 2013 until today? Obviously, nothing has happened, I answer. I'm waiting for your position. Why has a new National Coordinator not yet been designated? Will a new National Coordinator be appointed in the framework of a service, which worked five years without overlooking anything? Will it finally be abolished? Will you get the Ministry the initiative for this service? Will the planning be carried out under the coordination of the national authority, or will it be carried out by the Minister and the Ministry? And anyway, what happened these three and a half years? In the second part I have the reasonable question and the reasonable complaint that in July we tabled an amendment for the creation of supervised sites for psychotropic-dependent substances and Mr Manda's answer - since you were absent abroad at that time - was 'on substance we agree, and so on, but some details are missing, so we are not accepting the amendment'. So the questions arise: What are the remaining details? If that was the case and because your reference in the letter of 25 September is very general, will you allow me to ask: When will it be done and in what way? Why, say me suspicious, but it looks like bells. The "we've worked out a regulation that we'll see at some point in the future" seems like bells, given that the last paragraph of this letter looks very much like an apology to those who have great reactions to the creation of such centres, such sites of supervised dependence. For us - and I agree with what you say - all ways of dealing with the problem are legitimate and must exist in the Ministry's patronage. When will that be? I am telling you now that, at the first opportunity, we will once again table the amendment. I really want to know what the details are missing, because in my opinion - and we will then discuss them, so that I do not spend any more time - there are no details that are missing. There is only a lack of political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much Mr Barriotta. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u18	My dear colleague, I shall reply, starting with the latter, to make it absolutely clear. There is preparation, we have a ready amendment to cover the operation of supervised sites. We know very well and we are absolutely convinced that this is a measure to reduce the damage, including, which is implemented successfully in many countries of Europe. There are some ninety such drug surveillance areas in seven to eight European countries. It is good practice, which obviously contributes with assistance from escorts, such as street work programmes for intervention and administration of syringes and an effort to reduce road damage. There are psychosocial support interventions, because they know very well that the population - the target is problematic users, they are multi-purpose users, multiple substances, they are homeless, and therefore they need daily structures and hostels, short stays and mobile units, which will be at critical points, especially in the centre of the Lecanopdi area, where we have the stay of these people with serious drug addiction problems. Our aim, therefore, is to move immediately towards dealing with this pending issue. The reason why we did not accept the amendment - Mr Mandas explained it - was that we wanted it to be accompanied by a broader change in Law 4139 of 2013, which was a progressive law, which we then voted on as opposition and which, in fact, tries to put the priorities of a policy from the point of view of the needs of dependants and not just a purely repressive view, as it existed so far. The difference in the proposal is as follows. In addition to the explanatory statement, which is almost identical, the three elements, which exist, are that: first, the conditions and conditions for the operation of these structures are laid down by a ministerial decision, which specialises it more. Secondly, there is a record of receiving services of this type, which is very important, namely a registry. And the third - and perhaps most important of all - is that it is predicted that these people will not be persecuted, that they will not have problems of infraction and arrest by the police, etc. to the extent that they are monitored and included in that register, which I mentioned above. I think that is three quality elements that are very important for differentiating the proposal. I think it's much more processed. On the substance, it is in the same direction and I think we will have the opportunity in the next few weeks to discuss it in the House. Now, with regard to the overall planning that you mentioned, there is a delay - and that is true - in replacing the National Coordinator, whose term of office ended in the summer, and in drawing up a structured national action plan for dealing with dependency. I explained it last time: The main reason is that we considered it a prerequisite for a comprehensive institutional change to be the subject of No 4139. Unfortunately, we did not have the possibility of the appropriate political and legislative time to do this. We're in agreement at this time with the Justice Department, so we can see some final loose ends. We've already done a very serious job. These changes are in the final phase of processing. We want to strengthen this institution, not to abolish it, obviously, nor to transfer responsibility to the Ministry. We have agreed that this institution will be under the auspices of the Prime Minister, as it is today. We are trying to limit the number of members of the Committee on National Planning and Coordination and to limit the range of services involved, so that it is in principle flexible and effective and, above all, it has scientific documentation. We are trying to strengthen the administrative - scientific, organisational support of this institution so that it actually contributes to a substantial composition of the individual action plans, which all the bodies supervised by the Ministry have, which promote public policies against dependence. The main change, which we will also bring, is that we broaden the content of dependence, which is not just about drugs. It also concerns so-called emerging dependencies. We have alcohol, we have internet and gambling. These are new fields, they have been inherited from the crisis and the image in society has deteriorated on these issues, and I think it needs a serious and structured policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u19	Minister, let me remind you that you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Mr President. The fact that we did not have a national action plan does not mean, my dear fellow Member, that in recent years, efforts have not been made to strengthen the specific bodies active in this field - the JETD, the OKANA, the '18 UNO', the PSY, prevention centres - by promoting a comprehensive and holistic approach, starting from prevention and reaching the reduction of damage, disintegrating and, of course, social reintegration. They have been strengthened by additional staff, with eighty undetermined posts, where the recruitments have been completed and these structures have been strengthened. Now we are preparing another cabinet act to further strengthen these structures. They also strengthened financially, as far as possible in these years of cuts, and I think there is room for a sustainable relaunch in this area of national planning and coordination in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Colleague, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am pleased that we agree on the need to maintain and strengthen the institution of the national drug coordinator in the form that has been legislated by the progressive, as you said, No 4139. I am also pleased that we agree, in other words, inevitably that very few things have been done towards creating a coherent national drug policy. We are still where we were before, in internal conflicts and competition, which cannot be overcome unless there is a structured plan. I do not want to zero - I am not saying that nothing has happened - but I would like to point out that unfortunately the situation in Athens is getting worse, that people on the streets still have huge problems, that they die many times. We saw last on a shocking show of a 10-year-old girl with overdose in OkANA. The problems, therefore, are specific. The battle is hard and difficult in the face of all this terrible drug ring, and there is the need to pressure you, and we will continue to press you, for things that, in my opinion, should have been done already. They could have done it already. I am pleased that you will be tabling another amendment identical to mine. I am afraid I have to say that our amendment was mature. It is also based on the experience of OKANA, because, as you well know, a program has been run. The third, for example, you said, legalization, was done. It was a weakness of Law 4139, while Law 4236 - if I remember correctly - was when he came to correct the gap. There is the legal regime to operate the issue of supervised uses tomorrow. We agree, bibliography is overwhelming. The usefulness of such centres is overwhelmingly documented in literature, from the good practice of the Netherlands. There is not one death recorded in any of the surveillance centres that exist throughout the world and that says it all, precisely because there are doctors who can intervene directly. Let us just say, in support of what you say, that they are intended to cure, treat and attract - if you like - the network of services for people who live on the sidewalk, are not registered, and they are very far from any aid that could be provided on their own initiative. Among other things, these centres operated throughout Europe and as an incentive to attract such people and integrate them into all other substitution programmes, social and psychological support, etc. It's a very important measure. You will allow me to say that I find with bitterness that the only 'definition' that has taken place since we tabled the amendment to date, which we are discussing again, is the police operation - 'wowl' in the Mars Field, which may have served or satisfied the residents, who very reasonably understandably only want - and I understand it absolutely - is not having the problem on their feet, but what has actually done is that today the drug addicts do not die in the Mars Field, but die in the Deep Square. Because what has actually happened is they have retired to an even more degraded, even more problematic and even more dangerous zone. Until now, it is the only action that has to do with this particular problem in Athens, which is great. You know well that it is estimated at eight to nine thousand people who have a problem with addictive substances and especially opioids. There is also a study of the National Documentation Centre, which says that there are some ten thousand other people in Greece who are out of record and we are mostly talking about them today, for those who are out of record, apart from radar, who live on the sidewalk, are being prosecuted, living in crime. Controlled administration centres have been shown to reduce user crime, calm down neighborhoods, protect their lives, reduce the chances of death, but even this infiltration of drugs itself. I'm afraid we'll have to insist. The picture I have is that you can't commit yourself. The'very soon' you said, I really hope it will be very soon. I think it's a very big issue. There are no competitions allowed. We all know that there are competitions in the wider area of society, the ecosystem and the services that have important work of others, and I do not want to degrade anyone. We cannot, however, hesitate to legislate, because some believe more in one way of dealing with others. I think that all ways relate to different populations, all ways must be available. The Municipality of Athens, which has done a lot of work and a lot of effort, has been asking for it for a long time. I think it is urgent, indeed, that this issue be resolved and that an opportunity be given. I repeat - and I am closing with this - that the know-how exists in the OKAN and our institutional framework has been matured for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd General High School Tripoli. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would just like to say to you that you are following the topical and urgent debate, where the Member exercises his right to ask the relevant Minister about a matter of topicality, and that is why you see them being a few Members in Parliament. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u24	We fully agree on the necessity. There's no problem of ambiguity. There is a strong political will to use in the context of the overall intervention, the holistic intervention, which I said before, and this instrument. But to make it clear that it's not panacea. Problems of this type exist in all major metropolitans of the west at this time. They are not always treated in a way, they need a combination of measures. At the moment, what we are doing is that there is, in principle, a programme contract which is in force between the Region of Attica, the Municipality of Athens, the KETHEA and the OkANA. It's a 800,000-euro programme. A network of direct intervention is being established to users of substances in the center of Athens. Already on October 15, the training of staff, recruited, fourteen people, seven from the OkANA and seven from the KETHEA, began. They are trained and will be fast on the road to help reduce the damage. There is also a very important allocation of EUR 6.5 million, which has entered the Attica PPP, which will finance the second public rehabilitation centre in the country. There is only one detox in Thessaloniki, at PNTH. It's gonna be the second one here, and the third one's going to be in Iannina. There will be a day-ahead center for daily care of people who are problematic users. There will be a hostel of homeless, built-in, and mobile units will also be available, which will be at various points scattered in the Lefkanopedio, to offer timely intervention. Decrease in damage is a crucial issue. We have a reduction in deaths from overdose and we have a dramatic reduction in the risk of infections from HIV, hepatitis C diseases. This is well known and I think there is an absolute agreement. It is important that we ensure that there is a record of the recording and systematic monitoring of these people, precisely so that they are not vulnerable to a strict and exclusively repressive logic. I repeat that the field of dependencies is an area, which wants a very significant investment, mainly in human resources. There is one attempt at this period of synergies between the involved bodies, the health department supervised. We want upgraded public policies to deal with dependency. We are building up a framework and we will monitor the private structures that provide dependency-sharing services, because I think there should be quality standards in both the public and private sectors. There is provision for the creation of an evaluation mechanism for these structures and services - this is also about mental health structures and the structures for dealing with dependency - which is under way and with European funding. Generally speaking, there is a culture of networking between primary care structures, mental health structures, particularly primary health centres, that is, mental health centres, and addiction-related structures, always in cooperation with the social structures of the Government and the state. Through such an integrated framework, which provides not only a reduction in the damage, not only medical care for people who are in need, but a comprehensive psychosocial support and with the possibility of reintegration, I think that is the answer. Services have been greatly improved in this period. OkANA has opened four new substitution units in the region, has opened two units of enhanced psychosocial support in Athens and is now trying to complete its intervention for direct access units, to permanently and irrevocably eliminate the waiting list for entry into substitution programmes. We did it last summer. There was a leak of medical resources from OKANA with some problems we had with blocks, etc. An attempt is being made to solve this definitively and to have a more upgraded care. I must also say that our country is one of the first countries in the European Union - because sometimes by raising problems we have a tendency to reduce the important work that is done and the important contribution of all those involved - to the treatment coverage of dependents. That's what EMCDDA says. International reports say that. It is an effort that we will support and continue with in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the last time question on today's sitting, I would like to make a few more time-consuming questions which will not be discussed. The third, with number 11/1-10-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Safe in the city of Athens", will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasilis. The sixth question by number 19/3-10-2018 of the Member of Parliament for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The remainder of the Molyviats Fund" will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. The eighth Question No 17/2-10-2018 dated the second question of MEP I of the Thessaloniki Union of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of Law 128/75 on the aid of the East Attica" will also not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Finance. There is a letter from the General Secretariat of the Government for all the above obstacles. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formatography presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The establishment of a Metropolitan Organisation of Arts Museums of Thessaloniki". We continue with the second with number 69/16-10-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The wrong treatment of the health bomb in Moria Lesvos from the Ministry." Mr. Fotella, you have two minutes at your disposal for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the images of which I personally witnessed, especially during my visit with the remnant of the New Democracy in the camp in Moria, but also in the other Aegean islands, as well as the ones transmitted by the international media, and which all the world sees at all the backs and lengths of the earth, are real icons of shame that cross the country internationally. I think that no one can question that. Organizations like Amnesty International are denouncing you for the hell you have created, saving over ten thousand souls in three and a half thousand infrastructures on your own responsibility. I will submit the relevant documents where, in addition to the terrible conditions, your organization says that, despite the hundreds of millions of euros you have taken from Europe for the feeding and housing of refugees, some of them have no food to eat. You, who have confessed to humanism and solidarity for refugees and immigrants, have literally left to the mercy of God, refugees and immigrants on the Aegean islands, behaving in the most inhuman way, endangering the security of the inhabitants of our islands. The incidents of rape and suicide attempts, which I put forward in documents in Parliament and which mark the domestic and international media, leave no doubt about this criminal policy of alleged humanism. Of course, no one feels the need to apologise rather than, as usual - that is the permanent feature - to blame everyone but the government. It's Orban's fault, it's Europe, it's Turkey's fault, it's Adonis Georgiadis, and I don't know who else might be. You guys, you've done all right. Nobody has anything to say to these people. Mrs. Christodoulopoulos, I wonder, who has time to make statements of sympathy for Mr. Xeros, about these images of shame, doesn't have time to say anything? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I call for little tolerance. Minister, every day both the parliamentary forces and the society itself constantly demand specific answers to the public health issues that have arisen in this camp on the island of Lesvos. The settlement in Moria, after the opinion of the Department of Public Health of the IP Lesvos, which was based on autopsy exhibitions by the Department of Environmental Health and Health Control of the Directorate, was described as an inappropriate area for public health and the environment. For example, I mention the public health hazards identified, such as uncontrolled waste water, lack of diligent cleanliness, co-mechanism, intense dysosmia, lavatories, scattered waste. Because, therefore, the main responsibility of the Ministry of Health is to protect the public health of the population by planning and implementing similar policies through the Ministry's Directorate-General for Public Health and Quality of Life, please answer me to the following questions: First of all, has the Ministry of Health carried out actions following the publication of the relevant report on 11 September to date, under Presidential Decree 121/2017? If yes, what recommendations has it submitted and what administrative acts has it adopted, decisions, circulars, instructions, CSRs? Has he drawn concrete conclusions? If so, who is she? If not, why didn't he do it? Secondly, either on its own or following a mandate from the Ministry's political leadership, did the House investigate any omissions, infringements and errors provided for by the Ministry of Health Agency? Thirdly, the National Council for Public Health chaired by the Secretary-General for Public Health, the most responsible for defending public health, and which is the highest advisory body for public health, meeting in emergencies such as this, met, consulted? And if so, what action has it taken so far in the case of Moria? Fourthly, also, what actions and interventions has it implemented in relation to the state of emergency needs relating to public health in order to fulfil the mandate of the Presidential Decree? And finally, fifthly, the CEDEFOP, which is primarily responsible for preventing and controlling communicable or non-transmitted diseases, has adopted what directives concerning the direct risks to public health and how they should be addressed and managed? For example, injurious diseases, acids, infectious, chronic, viral, malaria, skins - all of this due to poor feeding - gastroenteritis? Thank you and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Firela. The Minister has the floor for three minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u28	My dear colleague, first of all, I shall not question the relevance of the criticisms made by both the NGOs and other observers and the relevant regional bodies, especially in the Moria region. This is, in our view, the major problem and this is the great priority: the decongestion of both Lesvos and the other islands of the north-eastern Aegean, which are gateways. This overpopulation of refugees in the region has created this real objective difficulty, that these people have decent living conditions and individual hygiene conditions. This is the major problem from the point of view of public health. So, to be very clear, now to give up for a lack of sensitivity, and to appear as supporters of human rights and the rights of refugees, in my view, is insulting our intelligence. What is true is that it has increased compared with 2017 by 24% the migration flow, particularly to the Lesbos region. We arrived at some point in August and September to have almost nine and a half, ten thousand people in the Cyts of Moria, when its capacity is at one third and, of course, with the well-known difficulties in mobilising the process of distinguishing the vulnerability and transport of those vulnerable to the islands in the inland, combined with the increase in flows at this time from Evros. I would remind you that in 2018 we have thirteen thousand arrivals from Evros of refugees and migrants, who are supposedly integrated into the hosting centres of northern Greece and the interior, where people are to be slowly directed - slowly - inclined to be vulnerable and moved from the islands. This has created today's suffocation in terms of human resources and accompanying problems. However, despite these problems, because precisely, dear fellow Member, there has been provision for increased supervision, prevention and prevention of risks to public health, at this time we have not allowed the refugee problem to be transformed into a public health problem. I also think that the effort made by the Ministry of Migration Policy is precisely to improve the living conditions of these people. The health presence of this FCH is generally satisfactory with the exception of doctors and intercultural ombudsmen. I would like to say that today in the Moria Cyts, two doctors from the CEDEFOP's special 'PHILOS' programme - a total of thirty-three people -, thirteen nurses, four psychologists, nine social workers, one midwife, one health guest and three ombudsmen. These days, this structure has been strengthened with both military doctors trying to cope with increased needs as a result of overcrowding. I think we are now in a transitional phase. Finish the previous program. There is a new invitation, a new notice for about a thousand five hundred people all over Greece with a provision that there will be in every open hospitality structure and in every HQS a sanitary core that will provide primary health care, will make a triage, a selection of emergencies that are urgently needed and will be able to organise the process of events that have increased care requirements in the adjacent public structures. We also have anticipated a very significant support with both medical and other staff and the neighbouring public structures, i.e. health centres and hospitals in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have your second language. We are being pushed by time, because we also have to move on with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u30	Of course, Mr President. And at the same time we want this staff to be able, on the basis of a special protocol that we have drawn up under the directives and guidelines of the WHO and the International Organisation for Migration, to have a reliable calibration of the vulnerability of these people, and then those who are genuinely vulnerable to being promoted in the hinterland. This is our strategy. The strategy is decongestion of the islands. There is the plan of the Ministry of Migration Policy that, in November, there will be a significant improvement at this level and I would remind you that three thousand people have already moved from Moria, and at the moment there are seven thousand seven hundred people who remain in this camp.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Fotella, please, as soon as you can, in order to proceed to the next part, to the topical question you have put as a parliamentary group, which is also very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr Minister, you have answered me and told me that it is all the fault that there are too many immigrants and refugees. That's not an answer I was expecting from a minister. It is not your job to see or to explain to me. Your job is to solve the problems. I specifically asked you what the Ministry did and certain supervised bodies. What did the Health Inspectors' House do, did it by the National Public Health Council, what the EMCDDA did, what the CDC did. They are specific bodies which have competences in relation to crises. You didn't tell me anything, and the truth is, you couldn't tell me anything. The truth is, my question was rhetorical, because I know you haven't done anything. And well, I'm a bad opposition and I don't know what else, I see it all black, but you, Mr. Minister, and your deputy, who are doctors again, apart from members of the government - the Secretary General of your Ministry, who are doctors, are you really happy? Are you really proud of what's going on in Moria, Samos, Chios? And as you well know, at the moment we're talking, they're literally stacking over 20,000 people in infrastructures that can withstand less than half of them. And the relief announced by the Minister for Migration Policy, we know how long it will take and when it will give real results. But now, because you have spoken of the hundreds of recruitments made through the PhILOS programme concerning medical, nursing and administrative staff in hospitality, first of all, Minister, you know that I am trying to show understanding, especially in health issues, such as medicine and the intergroup. But here, things are different and I have to report. On the issue of "PHILOS" you did not hesitate, Minister, to set up an incredible rhyphetological mechanism on the back of desperate people, to hire your own people and now leave these ADP surveillance on the contest. We all know how these recruitments were made with the well-known three-member committees, so people can hear and understand, because if they make him a competition, it means that it also sets the criteria. What we have is an IACS oversight means that you will set the criteria. You're gonna say that I want a blonde mustache 1,60 and ASA just have to say that the winner is a blonde mustache and 1,60. That is the supervision of the AACC, Minister. Do you want me to give you an example? The sister in active Minister, who was hired by the "PHILOS" programme and stayed in her office, did not go to Moria, anesthesiologist. What would he be doing an anaesthetic man in Moria? And you have prevented, before it expires - don't stay out of her office one day on the fourth floor - making a ministerial decision on the day the contract expires with "PHILOS" and advising the president of the CEDEFOP. So it's not enough that you earned a wage for the president of the CDC, you also offer him consultants. And you know that for a year now, there has been a complaint from the CEDEFOP Workers' Association which I will present to the House with the relevant publications. At the Public Administration Inspectorate General, the well-known Mrs Papaspyrou - we know what she is - which is quite strange here, but also at the Prosecutor of Corruption for the Management of the European PHILOS Programme and the well-known 20 million provided by the European Union for immigration, but which have been allocated for rosphetological recruitment. In fact, the single grant, the one you told us now, the 50 million, seems not to be made available for the needs of the refugee and hot spot, but the money will be given to recruit contractors for at least sixty five different structures and not just hot spots. You saw in the relevant letter from the European Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos - here I give you the relevant document - what he says about the opaque recruitment procedures in the 'PHILOS' programme and its unacceptable design, which provides for renewal of contracts, with the money of the state budget. I'll submit it to the Minutes. How do you respond, Minister, to all these complaints? Finally, tell us what other actions are you going to take in order to end this situation, this picture of disgracefulness between the country and the whole world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u34	Mr Colleagues, I think that the hypocrisy of this question has been revealed in your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u35	Is this going to happen every time?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u36	The absolute hypocrisy of this question. A political area, whose people are using the most disillusioned and anti-immigrant rhetoric, whose people are talking about illegal immigrants, the people of whom are triggering xenophobic, intolerance and racist events across Greece, I think the least they can do is not cause such questions. Your noodle does not burn you, my dear fellow Member, for the dignity of the refugees and for their health!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u37	You who burns you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u38	All you care about is the noodles of the far right. That is why you are cutting off, and that is where these interventions are aimed. We, therefore, despite the problems and despite the country's bankruptcy, have run the top of a huge refugee and immigration crisis, unprecedented for post-war time in Europe. It is a problem that goes far beyond the tolerances of a single country, and that is why we call for European solidarity and a change in the rules on asylum. Let me say this again, and I challenge that there will be no serious public health problem because of the refugee. There was not a single case of measles. Of the three thousand five hundred cases observed throughout Greece, there was not a single case of measles in the Moria Cyt because the appropriate vaccinations had been carried out. Because you say "what did you do?", dear fellow Member, there were thirty-five thousand vaccinations in 2017 and by July 2018 there have been eleven thousand of them with the cooperation of CEDEFOP and other non-governmental organisations. There was epidemiological surveillance. When there were cases of gastroenteritis, other infectious diseases and sporadicly some cases of tuberculosis, there was timely intervention, containment of the cases and there was no spread of either the refugee population or of course the population of the wider region. Difficulties and problems, obviously, exist and I recognized them in the first place. This does not mean, however, that there is a danger, such as the one you repeat. This story of the health bomb has become a joke. Three years we hear that a health bomb will be activated and not activated, precisely because there are organised states, because there are scientific bodies monitoring the issues, because there are scientists who contribute with their knowledge in dealing with them. By saying that the people who are hired to go to Kyti, to the islands and to the mainland, to go to ProKekaya, where we have administratively imprisoned immigrants and provide health services, under adverse conditions, are an attempt to party and attempt to create customer relations you are really insulting the dignity of these people and their intelligence. We are "if" trying to strengthen this period with incentives to attract particularly doctors where there is a problem and intercultural interpreters, we are trying to strengthen state care and synergy and obviously a framework of effective cooperation with the other non-governmental organisations, we are trying to activate the health institutions of local communities and to contribute this whole thing to you in a vulgar, opposition and populist way, just as I said before, aiming at the right pins.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before we continue with the agenda for questions, there are four requests from colleagues for a absence permit abroad. Mr Andreas Katsaniotis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 25 October to 29 October 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u40	The House therefore approved the requested permission. [[CHANGES BACK FOR CHANGING MATTER]] Independent MP II Athens Mr.Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from October 22nd to October 25th 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u41	The House therefore approved the requested permission. SYRIZA MP Konstantinos Pavlidis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from October 24th to October 30th. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u42	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Independent MP Achaias Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from October 23th to October 25th 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u43	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 3/9-10-2018 by New Democracy MPs Annas - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Eleftherios Augnaki, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Apostolos Vesyropoulos, Mavroudi (Maki) Vorides, George Vlachos, Sophia Vultesis, Georgios Georgios Georgiotis, Konstantinos Gioulekas, Athanasios Davakis, Nikolaos - Georgios Dendias, Konstantinos Karagounis, Theodoros Karakoulou, Georgios Karasmanis, Dimitrios Kyriazides, Panagiotis (Noti) Mitarakis, Theodoras (Dokoris) Bakoyannis, Nikolanis, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Christos Stasmatis, Dimitrios Stasstantinos Tasulasula, Konstantinos Javaras, Ioannis, Kantakis, Kantakisstantinos Tsiosiasiasiasiasiasias and Historias. I have the floor, Mr Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou. My colleague, you have ten minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's topical question, there were numerous and very serious complaints about the administration and functioning of the ERT. I'd like to make something clear from the beginning. We in the New Democracy support public television. We believe that public television must exist. We recognise that there are adequate and consistent workers on public television. We believe that the role of public television is very important to both society and democracy. Unfortunately, however, what we have today is simply not public television. ERT today is state television, which acts as a belligerent government propaganda. Simple as that! The proof is that the citizens are turning their backs. We have a public television that we all pay for, but hardly anyone sees it. So it's not public or television. It's just another charm. Obviously, public television problems are not today, they are time-consuming, but by the coming of SYRIZA - ANEL, evil has become a reality. In the past, ERT had better moments, had worse moments, occasionally projected some real diamonds, to say things with their name, but in total, she never convinced either that it was objective in her work nor that it was worthwhile in her function nor that it was efficient and transparent in her finances. There were two things, however, constant over time: there was a symbol and a tool. There was a symbol of heterocracy and a tool of palatial practices. Some people called her a conspiracy castle. In the years of the crisis, he crumbled more and became a sign of misery and a tool of a declining state. Before introducing the term "kolotoumba" internationally, SYRIZA made political use of ERT as a symbol of those who were then in the bars and today denounce those who set statues in the courtyard of ERT to honor their struggles. Now, however, ERT has become something even worse: it is a symbol of all we need to leave behind and a tool of raw party propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen, many have tried to change all this - successive governments, successive administrations. But it stood impossible. And after a while, they abandoned the effort, because the "cavet castle" turned out to be a very resilient castle. The Samara government was trying to exalt ERT, but the resistance was so strong, the interests were so great and the difficult decision was made. Whatever's not solved, it's cut. Eventually, it didn't turn off the public television. He closed up a public body, ERT, who was abused now. In the position of ERT, a new public body, NERIT, which was much healthier, opened immediately. And this is evidenced by the fact that he soon had much larger viewing than the old ERT. In fact, in 2014, NERIT had a higher rate of television viewing than ERT today that is now overflowing with internal dirt and complaints of maladministration and scandals. NERITT then criticised the government much more stringent than the other private channels, because that's what public television has to do. Today, the government propaganda of the new ERT is intolerable, even for your own government MPs sometimes. And that's not public television. Even the brief transitional period between ERT and NERIT became a symbol and tool, the famous "black". It became a symbol of populism and a tool of your idealism. Those who use this argument - black candy forget, of course, that 'black' was often a phenomenon in ERT long before it was closed. I mention, for example, that eighteen jobs have been made in 2011, ten 24-hour strikes and two three-day strikes. In 2012 there were two strikes until October. From October onwards, when the Samara government took over, we had forty-two consecutive days without a news report. What's that? Isn't it black? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The first half of 2013 became thirty-nine job stops, twenty strikes and we had eleven weekends without news reports. What's that? Isn't it black? We have had important events, such as the visit by French President Olad, the visit by Mr Samaras to China that ERT did not show them. Why? Because he was strikein'. Is that not black? Listen to this, which is really shocking, because it has nothing to do with what we are saying now, but what ERT employees said then, January 2012: EART twenty-seven journalists sign a text entitled "It's enough!" I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would like to say to you that they called for 'the abolition of unprotected mobilisation, the fetishization of mobilizations accompanied by the complete closure of democratic processes'. These then denounced dozens of ERT journalists signed. This was the situation of the ERT before the black. Fifty were deciding for the seven hundred. This stopped with NERITT. That's exactly what you guys came to revive and not just. You're here to finish it. I would therefore describe the situation of today's ERT. But I will not describe it in my own words, Mr Ministers. I will describe it in the words used in dozens of public places by people who have worked at the ERT, either in positions of responsibility or as journalists, exclusively on your own days, that is to say in your own words. First President of the ERT, Mr Chaknis, resigned two and a half years later last October, denounced: "The most ill part of the state-owned union". I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. Recently, an ERT Programme Adviser, Mr. Krimbalis, urged the administration of ERT to "operate as a single system of power that reminds us more of a factual war rather than a rational corporate structure and has as a basic doctrine - something that will remind you of this now - that "he who is not with us is against us and therefore must be exterminated in every way". I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. On May 11, 2018, we have a letter of resignation of ERT's General Technology Director, Mr. Michalitsi, who blames the administration of ERT for the organogram - will speak other colleagues about it - which describes as a "destruct that turns the company organisationally in the previous century". I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. On 2 September 2018, the Deputy Managing Director of the ERT, Mr. Seassinos, denounces: "To the limits of irregularity - procedures, exclusions and extremisms, ERT is gradually handed over to decommissioning, marginalisation and inertia". I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. A few days later, on 12 September, journalist Alafogiorgos calls on the President of the Association of Prosecutors to "take over the costs outside ERT which are unnecessarily burdened by the service and control public money". I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. Is that enough for you? You want more? There's a lot more. On October 25, we have a letter to the workers from the Director General, Mr. Kapako, where he says: "I came to ERT for work and not for jobs. Do we understand?’ How we don't understand! I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. If you want more, ask the members of SYRIZA's "sectoral" journalists. They met in the presence of Mrs Svigkos, Mr Skourletis, Mr Kretsou last week at the Silk Workshop and handed over a resolution with complaints. I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. But I close with my favorite, Mr. Friend's statement on 2-10-2018. He says, "The ERT does not work as necessary for a public television. ERT is a channel that has delivery, is governed by the old syndicate regime, a status of interest. Politically, what is produced is not a quality product nor does it offer a clear and in-depth information.’ It concludes that 'the responsibility of the government is exclusive'. I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. So that's what I wanted to say about the operation of the ERT in words of yours. I take the time of my dentistry, Mr President. I am now going to something last, in two serious incidents with insults and misguided speeches against the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, but also against the former Prime Minister, Mr Antonis Samaras. This is Mr Kassoha, who, about a month ago, said that listening to the Chief of Police Vice-Population, thought he was listening to the theory of fascism, Mr. Sergio Panoutsio, who introduced elements of nationalism in Italy of Mussolini - if possible! - and for the producer of ERT, Mr. Dimitris Anastassopoulos, who publicly urged in February 2018, through social networking, to draw up the former Prime Minister, Mr. Antonio Samaras. Mr. Pappas answers: "The ERT cannot and has no right to control the content of posts in the personal accounts held by the workers in the company, who have sole responsibility for their writings. I am presenting for the Minutes, please, Mr Kostopoulos' answer. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And I ask, Mr Pappa: If an ERT employee or a social media worker urges people to celebrate Mr Tsipras, how will you react? You answer me, if you want. However, I doubt you'll tell me what the CEO said to the question. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled many questions in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on issues relating to ERT. To keep you from getting tired, I'm putting in a list for the Minutes, please. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I won't give you any details. I'll tell you that the Minister's replies fall into two categories. 'No reply', this is the one category. And the other category is the answer 'Customs policy'. When we ask, you don't answer. When the people you appointing denounce you, you do not listen. And when both our own members and your own members and your own MPs here tell you what they say, you whistle indifferently. Are you here? Because we're here. Do you hear me? Because we're listening. Do you understand? Because people have now figured out what's going on at the ERT. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. In the words of our President, Mr Mitsotakis, our country needs public television but not government propaganda. Our aim is for ERT to become a genuinely public and non-violent media instrument. From a detestable symbol of partyism and a tool of uncovered propaganda and mudology, which is today, to finally become a model of real, public television, according to the best international standards, with editorial and functional independence, fully adapted to the modern digital environment, with the values of pluralism, merit and objectivity as flag and concepts - unknown words for you - accountability, transparency and responsibility as a framework of governance." And the public television with Kyriakos Mitsotakis will be done exactly that and it will remain a symbol and a tool. It will be a symbol of the fact that we can best and a tool to build Greece that we deserve. And that is why it should be real 'black', not 'black' to ERT, but 'black' to you in the polls, in the elections that are coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Vorides has the floor. Mr. Comrade, will you use your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u47	I will try to avoid that, Madam President. We'll see about it in evolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u48	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u49	I would like to start by saying that there was one of the vital myths of SYRIZA the famous "black". It was at the same myth dance that brought SYRIZA to power, like suicides, mangoes, cleaners. So one of these myths, one of these propaganda techniques was 'black'. And I say it was a propaganda technique that was black because? Because what was diligently withdrew from the public debate - and I must say successfully - was that, in fact, immediately after - the closure of the ERT was done by public television and immediately after this transitional phase, NERIT worked. So there was actually no time when public television was questioned. And it would be worth thinking about that when it comes to legal matters. Last but not least, Mr. Papapas looks into the legal and especially constitutional issues, as his laws are rejected and judged as unconstitutional. So, if it fails as a legislator, it possibly enriches its knowledge as a lawmaker and is trained in the Constitution in a better way. It says, therefore, that the Council of State on the crucial issue: 'The reason has been expressed that legislation should be annulled at the time of the Government of Samaras because of the opposition of the authorizing provisions of Article 14b to Article 15(2) of the Constitution'. And the Council of State answers here: 'However, it is rejected as unfounded, firstly because it is based on the mistake, as has just been stated, that there is a public broadcasting obligation under Article 15(2) of the Constitution'. In other words, it says here that the Council of State is not required by the Constitution to have public broadcasting. It also says: ‘In addition, as is apparent from the contested act itself, i.e. the legal provisions of the Samaras Government, the abolition of the ‘ERT SA’ took place beyond the financial reasons, in order to establish a new body of public service broadcasting, the law establishing which was published on 26-7-2013, i.e. before the present application for annulment. Furthermore, until the new entity became operational, a transitional body of public service broadcasting began to operate with staff and organisation, which went beyond simple compliance with the decision of the Board of Suspensions Committee of State, with the result that the operation of this transitional body, of Greek Public Radio and Television, would be of a regular nature and continued under the control of the National Broadcasting Council and the operation of private broadcasters of national and local territory. What does this decision of the Council of State say to us? Two very interesting things: First, there is no obligation under the Constitution to operate a public body. Although there is no such obligation, the government then provided for and operated an intermediate and final public broadcasting body, which was NET. I hear an additional argument - and I would like to say a little on this - that one of the main reasons why public service broadcasting is that it is of high quality. I shall not, of course, mention what Mrs Asmakopoulou said about the high quality of information, how high the quality of information, how pluralistic, how pluralistic and, above all, how qualitative such information is. I will not go into that. I will say, however, that you realise that the question of quality needs to be recognised somewhere, to have recipients, that is to say, someone finally recognizes that this is a qualitative thing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Because if it is such a high quality, I would stress, in a mass communication instrument, ERT SA. Is it not a high-art gallery that anyone who wants to visit, is it not a club that thinks about advanced cultural projects, is a massive body of television - so this high quality shouldn't somehow be recognized, someone to see it, someone to say that in this anhydrous, terrible landscape of private herbs - to use a word that SYRIZA likes - there is a quality oasis and to be recognised? Yes, sir. Uh, it's not recognized. Information provided by ERT for the 2-1-2017 to 26-11-2017: ERT1 viewing share in its bad moments is around 4%, at its good times is 6.8%. ERT2 at its bad times is around 2%, at its good times at 4.3% and all that costs - because it is important to see the cost of EUR 190 million, when NERITT cost EUR 101 million. So these comparisons are to lead to thoughts of those who support this project and think - as I have heard from Mr Papa - that it is at the best possible time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Javarras has the floor. You have five minutes for your protology. Do you want to unify them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u51	Madam President, I will probably also take the time of my dentistry. Thank you very much. I take the floor from the last paragraph of my colleague who has just come out of the step to ask, Mr Minister: the ERT's evening briefing, in your opinion, should we put it at good times, that is, the ones that have 4% viewing, or at bad times? I believe, however, that you in particular, whether you feel bad at this moment or good at the ERT, for one thing, you must apologise us or at least answer us to use a lighter term. Are you satisfied, when you find out how much the announcements and specifications you have included in Article 2 of Law4324/2015, which you brought here to the House and celebrate you told us that this party that governs the place today with the ANELs has a historic advantage: to restore the 'black' to the ERT with a spring, with an aging of ideas, situations, institutions that speak only about culture and democracy? Let me remind you of a few provisions, Minister. In Article 2, therefore, you say that ERT is a body of democracy and culture. Do you feel it when you hear it and see it? You also say that ERT is an institution that is independent from the state, from any public or private body and is mainly independent from all political parties. Do you think he's independent and against SYRIZA? I say this because there is also a quantitative measurement that says that 61% of the news reported in the parties is about the action of the SYRIZA and only 14% is about the Civic Opposition that New Democracy is. But there is another question I wanted to ask you. You have defined paragraph 4 of Article 2 that contracts will be drawn up between the public and the ERT, agreements of principles as you say them, aimed at consolidating the independence of the ERT. So I ask this: has there been any such agreement so far? I ask you, because these agreements of principle must have ensured, firstly, the conditions under which the news is transmitted by pluralism and pluralism and, secondly, the conditions under which the funds used by ERT are managed in terms of transparency for the benefit of the social system. From everywhere, the data pleads for the opposite. From everywhere they are hostile to the fact that this law was never implemented and that there was a law of announcements, ideas, great expressions, which were the only territory they found was the great, heavier statement of Mr. Capucha. Mr. Kassohas, with at least the level that his position on the quality of the speech made by the President of the Civil Liberation Officer Mr.Mitsotakis at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, exposes not only himself as insignificant, but also those of you who have entrusted him with his obligation to the State, the Constitution and the laws that your Government should ensure that the quality of programmes such as this, firstly, by the social mission of the media that you recognize it in this way and, secondly, by the cultural development of the place, which is obviously commensurate with the traditions, values, the history of this place. Are you really aware of who he compared - historically let us look at this - Mr Mitsotakis? He's talking about a Sergio Panucio. At least, all the references made in that name talk about a marxist, who had also formulated a theory that trade unionism was the historical development of Marxism. In other words, this man, who may be regarded as giving a revolutionary legitimacy to fascism, was a Marxist who believed that in this world what matters is the attempt to make trade unionism a tool to solve the problems of society and the economy, that is exactly what is being done today in ERT, because, as has been said by those who are ERT members and - as Mr Philes has suggested - those who govern ERT today are trade unionists. So why would Mr. Cachochas disagree because today the trade unions found what Mr. Panuchio had intended for them? Let me tell you something else. Some people said he could confuse Panuchio with D'Auncio. That's another person. Gabriel D'Anuncio, therefore, was indeed a nationalist, poet, filmmaker, dramatograph, screenwriter. Indeed, this man in 1924 - you will know, because you are a self-conservative of Marxism - Leninism - had been designated by Lenin as being the most true rebel in Italy. So that's what D'Anuncio - which I don't know if he meant or didn't mean by Mr. Cassachas - is another case. But, Minister, both cases cannot have any logical reference to the person called "Kyriakos Mitsotakis", because this person, this political leader, at least for three generations, or at least three generations, has something to do with liberalism. And not only that, but it just happens that the story has reserved him a unique privilege to have an indulging reference to Eleftherios Venizelos. But at last, you're not telling this Mr. Kassochah who Eleftherios Venizelos is, what has he done in this place? Can't he learn to separate fascism from fascism? And I'll tell you something else to finish. I'm really sorry, because these guys who appear with their lack of education, with their ignorance, with the lack of any interest in real knowledge of this place's history, make you very bad. Because they do not only expose you as a person, who I personally believe you would never get to this point, you would never reach the point of this shame to recognise your political opponent who actually has a clean, democratic accession, who really fights for freedom and justice from the point of view of Officer Restoration, you would never point him out in this way. Because that's a humble, a dirty curse. That's not an argument. And yet, that was through the ERT channel, which you, with the particular law I mentioned earlier, tried to convince us here that you would turn this channel into an oasis of democracy, pluralism, pluralism and culture. But you know what I think? Because beyond this low quality, there is another issue. Apart from the fact that the trade unions rule, even though you have spoken of the administrative self-sufficiency and independence of the ERT against any power, public or private, what I am impressed by you know what it is? That by placing people who are not qualified, in other words by general managers in positions requiring, at least, a higher education degree, and who do not have it, or by testifying to you in sensitive directors who have no knowledge of at least the English language, you do something that is much more serious and is a sign, a stigma and a case of corruption. You use a lot of money that you get from the Greek people to reward people of your choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u53	In other words, this deprivation deep down is an intolerable instance of corruption. Because corruption, Minister, is not only about those who take it, the way you say it here every time, but also about those who take it pretentiously. So here you will allow me to say it, there is a very beautiful reference to Palama in a text written about Dionysius Solomon and in this text he wanted to suggest how societies can be protected from corruption. So he said: "The only salvation for human ties to be protected from corruption is the return to the authorities". But you are completely incapable of doing so, because unfortunately you are ruling this place without principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u54	Mr Panayotopoulos has the floor now. Please, let's start taking care of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I did not find it particularly difficult to draw any arguments to support this question of the New Democracy. I had nothing but to refer to public statements and positions of state television officials - and already most of them - who have been put by this government, but also to some of the things that Mr Philis has said, if anything, in this place sincerely. Introductory terms, however, I would like to tell you that a sense of collapse has recently been consolidated in the country. All the government records are now under collapse, the net exit from the memoranda is under collapse, the take-off of the economy with the investments that we will not be able to accept, the Minister of Finance is under collapse, education is under collapse until the Minister's office is occupied, but not only during the occupation, the sense of security is under collapse, the institutions are under collapse, government cohesion is already a collapse. However, on public television, it is a very special, as I appreciate, history of collapse. State television may have always been put by political opponents of the government, excessively affected the government’s work, or that they were directed by friends and favoured by the government, or that there were pathogens and problems. No one refused this, and to some extent there was also a dose of truth in it always. But what happens nowadays with the ERT has simply never been a government propaganda on this extent, and with this nerve it has never been a maladministration like this before. And I can safely say that in the past this final television product has never been so disgraceful in the consciousness of the final judge, that is, the average viewer with one-digit figures as a rule, except in the case of Mundial matches and of course not in the Panama-Tunisian race but in the matches of popular groups. But today I have not come to carry out an evaluation of the programme. Besides, I'm not an expert. You will tell me: Is the ERT President special, who recommends a lot of money, and he does not even have television in his home and therefore does not see television? I guess not. He's president, though. And of course there are worse, because the complaints about the ERT's operating regime - and even the complaints from the inside - are the result of the resignations of directors, with very serious suspicions of opacity, cosmopolitanism and anxieties and the crackdown of public money take the form of an avalanche and an open war in the interior. At the heart of this is a state-of-the-art mentality with the leaders of public television, party friends of the government, journalists, who solve and bind without coming from the inflatable and unavoidable trade union leadership of state television, which, of course, is identified as having a brand - of course, a shaped oxymotor for trade union leadership, but who have been stuck with many meanings - in the old and rotten things that you, Minister, exorcising but of course have also been associated with the possibility of controlling state television. The resignation of former President Dionysios Tsakni in 2017 with peak maladministration now seems to be a long memory. We have much more recent incidents. In May 2018: Resigning Director-General of Technology, Mr. Michalitsi. He has said, among other things, "The administration has degraded the ERT program, has cut off the ERT", "the new organogram has turned the ERT into the previous century". September 2018: The Deputy Managing Director Mr. Seasinos mentions "management extremisms", "the ERT is delivered to depreciation and marginalisation, with the sole responsibility of the managers", "a ERT where trade unionists and hostages do not work but run, the general managers do not have a degree" and apparently refers to the electrician van who succeeded with the technology director. In September 2018, journalist Alafogiorgos with his post on social media calls on the public prosecutors to check the public money managed by ERT. Of course, he was subjected to disciplinary action. I am not sure whether any prosecutor in the country was moved to initiate a preliminary examination. In October 2018, Mr. Nikos Philis - certainly not an ERT official, but a SYRIZA official, said that "the ERT has administration", "governed by the old syndicate regime, status of self-interest", that "the product does not offer unreasonable information and the government's responsibility is exclusive". Apparently, he's referring to you, Mr. Pappa. In October 2018, Krimbalis's designated programme advisor - the most recent case of public declaration belligerents - spoke of a system of power reminiscent of a war patronage, aggressive delivery, arrogant, petty and insignificant administration where he heads are two eighty-year-old apprentices. All of this refers to a morbid dissolution picture, with malfunctions, public aberrations and internal behind-the-military warfare in progress, which nothing but reminds of the noble vision of the "BBC", i.e. state television - a model for proper operation and objective information that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government once had for ERT. And you know what - and I am closing with that, Madam President - this view, this impression of public television is not just its preconceived attitude - in introductory terms - 'bad' Officer', but the conviction of the vast majority of society that he pays for ERT and feels that the product he pays is not worth it or the money. This feels, that is, the depreciation of state television in your hands and its transformation into a cynical propaganda mechanism in favour of the rulers and against the real opponents. This is precisely the real 'black' in the operation of public television. This 'black' requires that the people who pay to change and we from this step say that this will change, but not with this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u56	Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Pappa, one of your most dear intelligence - repeat this recently in an interview with you at the 'Dakumento' by Mr Vaxvani - is that, of course, discussing with the New Democracy to improve ERT is like exchanging cooking recipes with cannibals. But, Mr. Pappa, they don't talk about rope in the hanger's house. Because you yourself have evolved into the biggest cannibal in the history of public television. No matter how much you're trying to be nice, no matter how much you whistle indifferently every time the next crisis arises, no matter how much you do that it rains on you as your own people, the ones you have appointed, the reality disproves you. Of course, you, whatever misery may be, whatever misery is evoked by your own owners, no matter how much they move between your political opponents - in the truth of the "Kalfayanism" in which you have completely subjugated - you have the answer: "Black". In other words, if it hadn't happened, you should have invented it. The name ‘Black’ in the ERT applies a permanent ‘Black’. Continuous 'black' in the name of 'black'! Propaganda, insults, murders, set up at the conference tables - and believe me I am able to know - continue immediately after the air. You have tried to become the ruler of the information, Mr. Pappa, and you have become the cannibal of the information. Could you tell us why they are resigning or dismissing them after each other, all those who you who were in the processions and organs had appointed? Are you eating them? What's happened? Since the resignation of Kapaku in October 2016 they have left or been expelled or you have expelled thirteen people. That's real cannibalism! And most of them, how do they leave? Speaking of representatives of the most luben client trade union, the Kalfayanni neck and a number of these. They're denouncing you clearly. At the end of the series of the Director of Information, Mr Talamaga, who last closed the door - I do not know who will be the last there, but he was the most recent. Thirteen executives, of the ones you appointed, have they gone crazy? Did all of them go crazy? Were the workers who are denouncing defiance phenomena and making announcements against you? No, Mr. Pappa. They didn't all go crazy. You have failed completely, and you must answer here because you have had to prosecute or leave thirteen people who have been appointed. And in order to prevent you, we are not talking about resignations for the clerks of Crete and about alleged interventions for the Thessaloniki programme, which was, after all, a decision of the supervisory board that you abolished. We are talking about names, according to which the Minister and the government have fully surrendered to 'Kalfayannism'. Why did the composer resign? Could you tell me? Tell me a reason. Because he sent you a letter. And don't try to say things about people of the past, and so on, because they don't like Mr. Kallagiannis. Don't worry about the man now that you've found them. Well, Mrs. Asmakopoulou spoke of the strikes. I am giving a summary here of the Minutes to understand that you have instigated them and have never been able to restructure them, and I also give a summary of the resignations - redundancies, the victims of your cannibalism. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I would like to tell you something else at this point. Do you remember that at first you tried to dominate Kalfayannis because he was pressing you, organising demonstrations, telling you that you are putting a tombstone on ERT, he went into the Central Committee of SYRIZA in 2015 and put it with Mr Tsipras himself? Now he's happy. And I wonder whether Mr Kostopoulos, who is now an absolute ruler - he will shortly be doing broadcasts himself - has been asked by the director of the New Democracy Press Office since 29 September and has never been a meeting. Is someone blocking him? I'm surprised. What, he's got a lot of work to do? Will you make him say sports in a few minutes, Mr. Kostopoulos? Well, the point is, you've been succumbing. Since March 2017 you have decided to hand over the ERT keys to Mr. Kallagiannis and now he runs the ERT. He's hovering in the studios. Do you forget about the incident reported by the journalist herself, Mrs. Polly, that she went in? Do you have anything to tell us? Did you say something? Did you open your mouth to say a trade unionist isn't allowed, anyone entering the studio and attacking a journalist? Minister, where things arrived with ERT you don't have much choice. You handed over the keys to Kalfayannis, who you delivered them, put the president and CEO directly and with the good after the Minister in your place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u58	Mr Georgantas has the floor now. Mr. Georgioda, your protology is three minutes and your denology is two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u59	Yes, Madam President. I'm gonna use my dentistry now. Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in what has been very enlightened by my fellow Members, I would like to add three titles: 'This administration of the ERT', 'Something is not going well in the Kingdom of Danimarky', and there is also the word'sea turmoil'. Do you know these texts that have been published for ERT's administration? In the ‘COMMERCIAL TECHNOLOGY’. In the light of the new establishment plan of the "ERT S.A.", he had to make these comments, which, of course, confirmed not only the resignation of the "ERT S.A.", but also the employees. This administration, the administration put in place by the present government, to make its rules of procedure in April and the new establishment plan in May, and look at what it achieved: seven Directorates-General, thirty-six simple addresses in a number of two thousand staff, about three hundred. But the nicest of all is what? That we have a public body in which there are no organic positions for workers. ERT workers are not in a specific organic position, they have only been subjected to the organizational chart that has taken place, despite the fact that almost four years of administration and a will, supposedly, rationalisation of its operation. Why hasn't that happened? I have a little suspicion. You know, creating organic positions and becoming a real organogram will necessarily be seen if all this number of staff really has an organic position to which it belongs and a specific job that it must do. While we hear voices from ERT trade unionists, who are also supported by some by the government, in order to increase the number of employees, we have the contradiction of having an amendment in 2016, from the present government, which talks about the possibility of moving the excess staff of ERT SA. Amendment of 2016! It's interesting to see how many people were moved, who were moved and where they went. However, on the one hand, we cannot admit that there are surpluses of staff and, on the other, that we do not take care of workers in their organic positions, which is good for the workers themselves, as everyone understands. I will put aside the fact that these two important elements of the composition of the ERT - one of the establishment plan and the other of the rules of procedure - were voted in favour of only three of the five members present. Three-two went. I don't know, it's very interesting to see why all three of these very serious decisions went to see. All this would be a little important if there were not an account at the end of this whole initiative. In 2016 ERT's wage costs are 55,343,000 euros. In 2017, its wage costs are ERT 57.230,000 euros and with the new addresses that took place in 2018 and with the new managers and directors-general I am sure we will exceed 60 million. This would also be of little importance if we were to have this quality in the information, Mr Vorides, which is being sought. You know, at the border where I live, it is being sought even further, as, unfortunately, there is no possibility of us having all the channels in the receivers of Kilkis, who are next to the Skopje border, and we would very much like to hear what is happening and on this very big issue. Unfortunately, however, there is only the - within the introductory - 'information' through the ERT. Finally, we will actually end up watching channels from neighbouring countries, precisely because it is not by chance that all this quality was finally unable to find a match to the Greek people. Unless he lacks the education of the Greek people, but Mr Gavroglou will take care of it so that, after the education has been obtained with the initiatives of Mr Gavroglou, we will have quality in the world to understand the quality of the emissions and information of ERT. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the present government has succeeded with its choices - and I am ending, Madam President - in its interventions, with the aim of achieving something that no one has previously achieved to such an extent, the complete depreciation of the ERT, the absolute depreciation. And it is a pity, because there are indeed executives who work consciously, there are indeed efforts that are being made to meet the role of ERT, but all of them are drowning because, apart from any targeting, whatever intervention, there is also a trade unionist in there who alone is the beginning and end. That's what he thinks of himself now. This whole group, however, will come and come by the vote of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Last of these questions is Mr Charakopoulos. Come on, Mr. Harakopoulos. You have five minutes together with your dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the way SYRIZA dealt with public television, which made it a flag on the road to power, is a characteristic of your ability to sell seaweed for silk ribbons. The lie, however, has close legs because, after almost four years of left-wing government, public television is treated with universal depreciation, as it is shattered by internal categories for mismanagement and the destruction of taxpayers' money. Was the collapse of SYRIZA's messengers for ERT random? No, of course not. Your aim was neither the quality of information nor the pluralism of information. We all remember the revolutionary days at the ERT Radio Memorial with Mrs Constantopoulou screaming at Mrs. Rachel Makri having literally climbed the bars. There's still the ERT fallen memorial, falling no one knows. The so-called "black" to the ERT actually cost the then government and gave air to SYRIZA's sails. But what did you do when you took authority? You created a public television, a tool of raw government propaganda, far more raw than the punctual memory of YENED. There was support for government policy by a number of journalists at the same time, a distortion and even a slander of the positions of the Opposition and in particular of the Officerial Response. Intensively we heard one of them claiming without seeing that Kyriakos Mitsotakis was analogous to Italian fascism. And this is only an extreme sample of this psalmology and brainwashing waterfall of public opinion, which is obviously exalted by Mr Papapa's 'pre-migrant ministry' in collaboration with the hard core of the unionists of the ERT who consider that public television is their lips. And that's not just us. It is said by the members of the government themselves. Repeat it for insight. This is said by Mr Kammenos, former Minister of State, Mr Philis. "The ERT is a channel that has administration, is governed by the old syndicate regime, a status of self-interest," says Philis. It is said by the former ERT Programme Adviser, Mr. Spyros Kribalis, who denounces the Minister, Mr. Pappa - you - that he delivered the ERT's keys to "the hungry for power Mr. Kalafayannis". It is said by the Deputy Counsellor of ERT, Mr. Seasinos: "We are driving to an ERT that the trade unionists and the hostage at last do not work, but it runs, the general directors do not have an AEI, but a barbas in Koroni". But the former Director-General for Technology, Mr. Michalitz, says that the ERT plays a major role for the representatives of a client union that is appalling for society and aesthetic. I do not think, Minister, that we could do better than those of your comrades, perhaps because they know you better. Here, then, what was the real reason for the so-called 'black', that the spoon would be lost for the paradox, which for decades solved and tied to the radio magma, and now with SYRIZA in power he has come back further to salt everything. And there is no stopping complaints about the orgys that are happening, because apart from the administration, beyond the overriding appointments, beyond the support of the "days" there seems to be a big economic game. It is still not the bad Opposition that says that, but it is the workers who talk about external productions that cost multiples of internal and more. It is indicative that the journalist, Mr Alafoyorgos, has publicly called on the President of the Association of Prosecutors to take over the costs outside the ERT which are unnecessarily burdening the service and to control public money. Here, then, is the works and days of SYRIZA and ultimately its real face, behold the so-called moral advantage, beholding democracy and transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, this ERT cannot continue to work in this way. It has become like the stables of Sanctuary and needs cleansing to have a new public television that will promote creativity, objectivity, morality and culture. And this TV can't be brought by SYRIZA. Everything he could and wished is what we see today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u62	Minister, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u63	Hours of truth I wonder who the officers of the Officership are addressing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u64	And to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u65	To us? Yes, sir. You're doing well to us, and you're addressing, but who believes you by those who listen to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u66	Ask the world out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u67	Of course, the world. Which one million they saw yesterday on public television to ask? You tell me. Name me. You've got a serious problem of timing, I'm honest with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u68	You mean the race ARS - PAOK? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u69	Do not interrupt and nourish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u70	Please, you weren't interrupted. You said the universes. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u71	The problem of your timing is that you chose to escalate an attack on the government around ERT, now that it is taking very serious steps and that the public service broadcaster is doing better. This is also recognised by viewers. And when you go up to this step, it's good not to lie. Because the evidence shows that the ERT was closed at 15%, and all three of its channels were immersed at 6%, and now it's 9% before. These are the evidence. Lie here not to say. Her emissions are blowing 20s. Her sports events, however sad some interests are, go to the triads and seven hundred thousand and a million viewers. Therefore, one of you here, in fact, would expect you to have the debate on the basis of this reality. Unless you think that the people to whom you address only see "SCAI", so they will never know what is really happening. One thing I understood from your locations. You haven't regretted anything, really. You think you've reached the end of ERT. Mr Vorides was founded because it is constitutionally right to close it, and Mrs Asmakopoulou told us that 'what is not solved is cut'. So whatever you guys are cutting off, we'll rebuild it. And keep this very well put in your mind. And what you have cut into your destructive governance will rebuild a step in this and in the next four years. Some things have been heard about quality. I'm really surprised! And when we appeal from Stepma Palamas, we must also have stress our children can hear something on television about Palama, Seferis, for the liberation of Athens. I didn't see any private channels making references there, never anywhere. And we're ready here to come bail on ERT. Do we dare and talk about payroll costs too? There's a pending trial that's got eight deferrals. Do you know why? For the bonuses given by the administrations you put in. And you come here to say the cost of the payroll and the cost of the producers? ERT's gross outputs per minute cost 40% more than they cost in NERITs. So how is NERIT to have the same and higher payroll costs when it was a channel, while ERT is currently four, five together with ERT World? How's that working out? Do you think that they will stay covered or do you think that the sworn committee, which will find out what the cost of 'black' was, has cost the public these 'constitutional' closures that you told us here that you were doing? You live in the constellation of denial. In your world you are entitled to permits, ERT is not seen and we are not out of the memos. That's what's wrong with you. But it's not unprecedented for you. Because you said in 2016 that the first assessment will not be closed and you have been disproved. You said you'd activate the cutter and disguise yourself. You said that there would be no dividends, it would be a unilateral energy that would destroy the country's course and be disguised. You said that the second assessment would not be closed and that you would do so well. Another denial. You said that the third assessment would not close, you said we would not close the fourth evaluation, you said we would get nothing about the debt, you said we would not close the memorandum, we would not get out on the markets. You said there was a fourth memorandum coming and pension cut. Another painful contempt. And now you've been saying that the Macedonian won't be solved. And because you've changed your signal lately and made a futuristic choice, would you also change your name from "New Democracy" to "New Dispose", why are you going from a denial to a denial and now you're waiting for the next one? [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] And I'd say to you, because you're both flawless and you're also engaged in the sports of the speaker's interruption, remember what you were saying about television licenses?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u72	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u73	What? You said you didn't need permission. Don't challenge me, Mrs. Vulture, please! You said, therefore, that they do not need authorisations, that they were granted to the network provider and that there is no question of authorisation. We brought a law that told the ERR to license...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u74	You changed your law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u75	Don't interrupt me. You'll hear it! So we brought the law that said the National Broadcasting Council would make the licence and you explicitly refused to plead unequivocally and unequivocally to the setting up of a National Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u76	You say that backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u77	Oh, no. So we changed the law on first application.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u78	You have adopted our proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u79	Mrs. Vulture, please! And what you didn't say!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u80	The competition took place, which proved that it can and should have the public get a price, unfortunately marginally - we could have gotten out much earlier - was rejected by the Council of State and we did what you have never done. As soon as the decision of the Council of State has been taken, we have immediately brought a provision to change the only paragraph which, of course, was unconstitutional. What have you been doing for thirty years, when repeated decisions of the Council of State said that there should be television licences? You didn't do anything. Is everything okay? This strategy, this view, you have founded on this tactic and from this Step on the occasion of this question. I think people who are listening to how you understand the television scenery. A quorum, which will be public television, which cannot claim either television viewing or programme, and nothing and unconnected private channels. In terms of both content, asymmetrical and labour relations, asymmetrical to and technology, unconscious to installations, unconscious to their intensified continuous debts. That was the reality. And from this reality, I have to tell you that we are a long way from now on. The public therefore received EUR 150 million from the advertising tax and collected money from frequency charges. You didn't collect them either. It will receive EUR 170 million from licences and EUR 125 also from the advertising tax. Do you know how much that does? That makes half a billion. Do you know what the recitals of the appalling amendments Mr Stournaras and Mr Kedicoglou have written and extended the application of the levy on advertising every 31 December? It says that this revenue from other sources will be found, because of course, there will be a public cost. Obviously, other sources! Since there are wage earners and retired people, why should we harm the property of the channels? A half a billion, therefore, for the Greek State. So ERT, I'm going to repeat it and it might bother you, it's at its best phase since it opened. Open up with a thousand problems, open up without money.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u81	He's got five thousand now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u82	He's got two thousand six hundred. Don't lie. Five and a half thousand had your own days. Don't be in a hurry. We need to think before we open our mouths. And don't lie. So ERT's at its best. Your review went for a walk. When we opened it, you told us that it is not viable, the account doesn't come out. Not only did the bill come out, but also within a memorial, be careful. Because the ERT is currently taking important steps for a very specific reason. Because we got out of the memoirs. What did ERT mean to the Memorandum regime? That 60 to 70 million a year - I say the people should hear it - from the rewarding end were going to the state corps. Now this ERT obligation is reduced and has the ability to do very serious things, and program to get, and sport to get, and sport to support. Because we hear you talking here, but you do not say what you are going to do. I think that only Mrs Ahmakopoulou made a reference to what Mr Mitsotakis said, who says will reduce the reward fee to EUR 1,5. Yes, sir! To hear this from producers, directors, actors, people of sport all over Greece. To hear it from the people of sport from sports whose championships would not start if it were not ERT ready to respond to its separate social role, as it responds to its social role when it has made twenty thousand free messages, sponsorships, communications for cultural and other events. These are public services which one cannot find elsewhere and one would expect a serious party in the centre to appreciate and highlight. But, obviously, you're not an optional major party. So ERT was also hostage to the private network provider. And we're not ashamed. We come to this step and we're chasing the government because, he says, some people don't watch TV at the border. Are you serious? Wasn't the ERT's 'black' the result that the ERT stayed out of the competition for the development of the network provider and the network developed on the basis of the private commercial needs, so that at the moment we were talking about five hundred thousand Greeks not watching television? How can we come to this Step and erect such things? With your policy, five hundred thousand Greeks can't watch TV. The law has passed, the C.O.D. is coming out in the next few days, they'll be able to access. Not to turn the world upside down here to criticize. I think the distortion also has a limit. The ERT, therefore, supports the arts, culture with its musical ensembles, with its sponsorships. Supports Greek cinema, highlights locality and cultural diversity. Also, something very important: ERT opens the way to the future for television. I'd expect to hear a word about what TV's future is. The future of television is live transmissions and new technologies. ERT is the one and only channel that has hybrid television services and two hundred and fifty thousand people right now that we're talking about them. A good word, didn't you find it? This was done by ERT officials, the people working in there, the permanent ones you say we don't use them. Hybrid TV! He passed the musical and had primitive services, the Greek viewer, from the selection of the camera, from seeing the replay again. Why don't we say a good word to these people? They did this without a bonus. They didn't get a bonus. We don't do that. With their salary, they did it. Others took and swallowed the great bonuses and now they've moved to private channels and are ready to find the ERT. But these too won't be kept under the sun. We can't, sometime we'll have to find out. About the ERT site: Over two million unique visitors a month and on average ERT audiovisual material via the internet has three and a half million times a month. So the only vehicle that developed hybrid television is ERT, and that is where I think it would also take a little braveness and a little greatness. We are also able to tell you that hybrid TV services will be developed even further, so that the viewer can have the service and watch all ERT channels on a screen and also make a second parallel program stream. During the World Cup, of course, I told you that we had for the first time - and first in Europe - the three hundred sixty-degree services, virtual reality and choice of camera and a series of others, while new and new services can and will be developed. They have visited seven and a half million users and much more youth audiences on its websites. We have fifteen million match viewings and all the visitability indicators had risen from 140% to 700%. Sloppy for them. Also, about the regular TV show, I talked to the beginning of my position. When ERT closed, it was around 15 percent, when it reopened to 5% -6% and now it's up to 9% and I think there are things that don't need to be repeated by this Step, because they're disguised by the data and the facts. There are some coincidences that are interesting: only yesterday over a million people saw football matches in ERT. What are we going to tell them? Cut? It's gonna be 1,5 euros the end and whoever likes football in the payroll. This is an opinion you have put forward here and we should not blame you. Clearly. No role is played by ERT, then, in these great sports events. No role! Neither will it develop its own network, nor big sports events, to consecrate and project any of them. And there is another point on which I think that its irreplaceable role has emerged. These are the major events of world developments. From the coup in Turkey to the last hit in Syria was the public broadcaster who reproduced them in real time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u83	And the last cabinet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u84	The other field was buying. We didn't get any ham until the next morning. This is the bitter truth, not to talk about the ridiculous stealing of her image. Don't talk! Because it costs you sending a crew, so what do we do? We take the image of ERT and reproduce it. However, I think it will be time that the administration will also be able to claim what has to be done by those who use its image without its permission. I think that the Civic Opposition, ladies and gentlemen, constantly criticises investment in the ERT, and the sums spent on entertainment and information programmes, major sports events and the activities of the parties and the Heads of State or Government. Do you know who the champions are at the expense of showing the parties? You are the champions, the New Democracy. And don't refer to the government's figures as if they were a party. Traditionally, governments have more visibility, because the work of ministries and government initiatives at domestic and international level must be a bit of a manifestation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u85	Is that what the PSE says?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u86	No, the PSE says exactly that. And if you see, Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u88	I'm going to say a little bit to Mr. Javarra, so I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u89	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u90	All right. Mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u91	Don't ask for mercy, there won't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u92	Answer the question then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u93	There will be no! You'll hear it all. The PSE is therefore in the same report that you refer to in the previous years for NERITT gives 55% - 60% of the government. That's the reality. What are you doing now? Do you have a number on this side and you're going to build an opposition? Go up here and stand up - I'm sorry - far below the circumstances. In fact, if I were to put a title, I would have put 'New Democracy against Capsules'. How many times I've heard the name of that person! Is that what you have to say about public television? Anything more? You did well to close it and make a small, flexible shape that will give the Greek viewer exactly what? So I think it is good that we have had the opportunity to have this debate and continue with it. You will receive answers in detail from the State Secretary. I think that anyone who is following the course of this debate will take a good look at the fact that there are two logics here. Both logics are the immunity of individuals, 'black' for public television - that is one logic - and the other is regulation and development with a strong public service broadcaster on the other. It is logical that they have colluded in the past, that they are also fighting today and that they are also going to collide in the future. But I think that the Greek viewer has started and appreciates and recognizes what is in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u94	Madam President, may I have the floor on the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u95	Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u96	Did I hear the Secretary-General's answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u98	That is not the case in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u99	Look, ERT has taken over Mr. Cretso's responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u100	Then the Minister shouldn't have spoken. I'm so sorry! There is a question of legalization - I am passive to say - of the member of the government who is being asked. As far as I understand the Minister is concerned, he is obviously not fully aware of what the question means, so he took the question's text to say a thousand other things, apart from what he had to answer. Parliamentary control, Mr Minister, should therefore inform you that it is in the form of a question in this case and that it is about explaining the issues raised in the text of the question. So the fact that you have found the opportunity to tell us that this question is below your level is something that we are returning to you. However, what we want you to give us is a concrete answer to the questions we ask you. And if, Madam President, the Minister is not legitimate because he does not have that authority, you have given him the floor. On this, I beg your pardon, but I do not accept a word, because you know it much better than I do. It's about to be a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u101	Mr Colleague, you have addressed the question to Mr Pappas, let's make sure you see who has...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u102	All right, then how will the Undersecretary come talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u103	He is allowed to speak, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u104	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u105	Article 135(6) states that the Minister's speaking time may not exceed twenty minutes. Secondary time is not offset. The Minister may only once, for exceptional reasons, request deferral, etc. Paragraph 9 states that if, during the debate on a question, a Member is also deemed to be a member of the current or previous government, he can speak at the end of the debate for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u106	Madam President, I beg your pardon, but when he says, Minister, he means the man with responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u107	Wait, sir, now with the legalisms! Wait, we'll work it out. Here we have all the answers, don't be afraid. It says, therefore, in Article 97(3), that if he asks the floor State Secretary of the same Ministry, he is entitled to half the speaking time of the relevant Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u108	Very good. Mr. Pappas is not in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u109	Mr Kretsos is a State Secretary and he already has the document that has been distributed to you in half the year. He's a State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u110	Madam President, he's not in charge, you told us, Mr. Pappas. Watch out now, there's a topic here. The responsibility for the ERT has been assigned, and the gentleman has it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u111	He's assigned for the ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u112	How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u113	Please, Mr Javarra, this is a global government issue, the ERT issue. You are necessarily addressing the Minister responsible. Whether the State Secretary has any responsibilities does not mean that the Minister has spoken wrongly. In any case, Mr Javarra, you raise the objection while you are discussing it. Go over there and untie them. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u114	What are we going to do with your judgment, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u115	I do not think there is any question of the legitimacy of the Minister for Digital Policy, which goes beyond ERT and which has the whole system to represent, much more so, the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u116	All right, then. So let's take it as you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u117	Yeah, why isn't it digital policy? What's ERT? Is she manual?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u118	That is what we call 'economic'!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u119	Anyway. I think that these procedural documents and, above all, at the end of the speech have no meaning. If you're afraid of Mr. Crecho, I'll ask him to be milder so he won't hurt you too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u120	No, to God, we don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u121	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u122	Besides, it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Crecho, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm flattered by all this fuss about whether or not I should talk. I would like to say, of course, that parliamentary powers are exercised in parallel with the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. Ladies and gentlemen, I hoped that we would have a constructive debate today, see clear proposals, pure intentions and, above all, the Members of the New Democracy showing their real interest in the future of public service broadcasting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u125	We don't want any hints. We're elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u126	You, Mrs. Vulture, tell us why you didn't sign the frequency charges, the 40 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u127	Yeah, yeah, yeah. You guys tell us what you're doing on the trips you're going to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u128	Reading and listening to all this and seeing this behavior, you know what? I can see that you're irreparable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u129	You suggestions to MPs won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u130	Really irreparable. You don't even bother to spend your remorse on the crime you committed to the ERT five years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u131	She doesn't have to listen to you, Mrs. Vulture, you haven't taken the floor from nowhere. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u132	Suggestions to MPs won't. Rescind him in class, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u133	It's been three and a half years since ERT reopened and you haven't said the least of the good talk like it's all black. You have a black thing. Beware of this obsession and not repeat comments or crises and to formulate half the truths with a single goal, Ms. Vulture, that you did not sign the frequency charges,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u134	What fee? Slander and you don't have the right. When did I not sign?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u135	... to hit the image of public broadcasting for the benefit of your opposition goals, your tough opposition line and ERT competitors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u136	Can you hear him, Madam President? You're not listening to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u137	Your old sieve art! Excuse me, can we talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u138	They don't talk like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u139	You won't talk to the MPs that way. You're not elected. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u140	What won't we talk like that, Mrs. Swollen? Are you suggesting? Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u142	Yes, of course, we're making suggestions because this is a congressman. It's not a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u143	Please, whatever he wants to say. Okay, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u144	No, he said what the MPs should do. The gentleman won't tell us. He's never been elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u145	Is the parliamentary right to remind you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u147	He's got it in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u148	He doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u149	Come on, continue, Minister. And you, please, stop. We don't have dialogues here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u150	I think you wanted answers and got them from the Minister. I'll say a few things, too. As to the first question you raised, the ERT operational plan is being prepared. There is cooperation with the National Technical University and we believe that the administration will speed up the procedures for its completion. In the second, the ERT has proceeded with the establishment of its organogram and is in the process of being implemented. As regards the third, the issues of objectivity, this is a day-to-day struggle in the three and a half years of ERT's operation. It is her duty, obviously, to respect ethics and that is what we are ensuring. The ERT is present daily in all major events. The ERT is, of course, judged on what it shows and gives the citizens, as they are all judged. And, believe me, the citizens understand. As far as the fourth is concerned, economic management issues are not hidden. We've said it again. All decisions are posted on both the ERT website and the "DIAGY" and controlled. If you have anything different, come tell us. On the fifth, ERT staff operates five channels, twenty-seven radio stations, although it is 50% lower than in 2008. In fact, I wonder how you are now substantiating staff adequacy at the ERT, which is two thousand hundred and thirty people, if I'm not mistaken, and I think you also consider your question as well. But I will answer you with very specific information. The average cost per minute of ERT's external productions is 42% lower than NERIT's...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u151	The total cost is to tell how much it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u152	The whole thing, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u153	Please don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u154	The cost of emissions transmitted to NERIT and continued with ERT is reduced by 20-40%. There is now a regulation on the implementation of internal producers and the supply of ERT programme content. All published on the ERT website and on the "DENMARK" following a call for interest. There is a specific programme committee responsible for recommending - internal, mixed or external production - and for controlling financial data. There is a Information Emissions Committee. There is the responsible programme and copyright management department of the ERT. There are sworn auditors. Now, I'm going fast to ERT 3. You see, I talk fast, because I know you're gonna interrupt me again. ERT 3 is the channel of Greek public service broadcasting, which I think we need as a state as a whole, to highlight the important role of the region and to strengthen Greece's link with Greek democracy and the Balkans. Let me remind you that this channel also fell victim to black. So I'm going to take your report today as an act of remorse. But to talk about ERT, which, in my view, is the most quality channel on Greek television at the moment, with very important and concrete achievements from May 2015 to today. First, the establishment of a 24-hour television programme and the restoration of the operation of radio stations of '102 FM' and '95.8', which provide a 24-hour daily programme - ten hours live, seven hours recorded - produced exclusively by the staff and technical means of the ERT. The TV program of ERT 3 has a clear and clear position and clear reference to the Greek region, with emissions for Greeks, for Greeks, for agricultural production, with quality entertainment, documentary, classical music and opera. ERT 3, however, gives a struggle with pitiful means, with shortcomings and problems. The figures in relation to 2013 are inequitable. We want to support ERT 3 more. We hope at least that you will agree to that. And if you do not agree, at least take a position, so that both citizens in Thessaloniki and Macedonia will know, but that's exactly what you want from ERT 3. Seventhly, the process of supplying the broadcasts to ERT itself will be completed, without white areas, by returning the good of information and entertainment to the public. We save at least one and a half million a year - the amount paid to DIGEA today - and restore what you tried to prevent with black in 2013, i.e. there was a public network provider. For technological innovation, hybrid television, and all this has been mentioned earlier, I think the Minister has been detailed. I come to the last thing that has to do with the Ministry's supervisory function for ERT. One is to ensure the proper functioning of public television. I said that to a question Mr. Loverdos made to me. I do not claim that everything works in perfection. This, however, is another thing from the denouncing word and subjective judgments expressed by some. It's their right, obviously. We have a democracy. But what is really regrettable is that some are exploiting and creating a political confrontation with the aim of changing the political agenda, using ERT as a bag of boxing. This also shows the political deadlock to which they have come. For ERT, we have nothing to hide. All in the light! Just know that the world is tired of this account, that it's all ERT's fault. Let's get in a little bit, actually. Who's ERT today? Is it the one you or the one that is built every day and the citizens see on their screen and reward it? At this point I would also give you the station shares per time zone last weekend. Mrs. Asmakopoulou, don't lie about the TV show. I'll answer you with evidence, and please don't interrupt me. In 2012, while the previous government was true that it had reached the ERT view at 15%, you managed to take it to about 8%. And this is your creation, because the collapse of the black show you brought overnight had a really huge effect. In particular, ERT3 lost 70% of its viewing in the case of black. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Eleftherios Kretsos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You'll see that ERT was first, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, - don't worry - at the Prime time to the male and young audience. This performance has had to do so for many years, unless we exclude our period with Mundial and other major events. So ERT is everywhere, on all platforms, on all networks and has considerable content, and it is the only one that supports the Greek cinema, because private channels with your own indulgences, uncertainties and indifferences have never been able to deliver 1.5%. ERT is the only one who supports artists and their rights and supports Greek audiovisual production. Obviously, it has to be better. What do you do about it? You come here to stone whatever effort has been made, to render characterizations, to exaggerate, to shout, as before, deliberately and only for one reason: To make ERT a pass in the television scenery again. This is your only concern: To satisfy your friends and allies, the old and the young. I would remind Parliament of what he said - and his sincerity honours him - the President of SKAI in the documentary 'The Lost Sign of Democracy', which admitted that private television stations were positively affected by the closure of ERT. And you're constantly confirming, with every public position, that you have a problem with ERT. Let me remind you that your President, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, speaking on the show "Nicon" on February 22, 2016, was glad to say that the closure of ERT was a one-way street. This shows either incompetence or specific intentions for the ERT. Even worse, the fatal man for ERT, Simeon Kedicoglou, - who I do not know why he did not sign this topical question - who protested with the trade unionists, who all this afternoon heard you complain, in 2011 - that Mr.Lovertos also listened to me, because on Friday he told me the difficulties that the government was facing, to see your contradictions, Mr. Loverdos - said that the changes that Mr. Mosilos is trying to bring are in the wrong direction: 'closes facilities, shuts down frequencies, get fired people, punishes public property'. Mr. Kedicoglou was right then. But then he was in Opposition. You just came to the government to see your works and days for the ERT, the "DIGEA", for the television scenery, for the advertising and for what it has to do with the media. However, the most cynical confession - and here I will close - of how you see public service broadcasting belongs to Mr Samaras, who said public and 'extraordinary' on 23 December 2013, as he points out, that he likes to say, that the crime of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK was that they were always left-wing and these many bad left-wings went to ERT and did all of this. And you, Mr Vorides, who are looking at me now, were very pleased underneath - there is the video - you were applauding this delusion. I mean, at least you were honest, because your main problem is ideological. Because you're here undetected. You didn't bring any evidence, nor did you bring the TV. You're lying. If you don't lie, bring the evidence, and I'll apologize. But you have come out of your mind, ye are shouting, you are stoned, and your main problem - at least Mr Vorides is sincere - is ideological. So let me tell you outside, like your previous Chief: you see in ERT and then, now, ghosts. So land, in fact, with it. ERT is public broadcasting, it is the property of the Greek people. Stop pouring through her and don't dream that she'll be closed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u155	The circle of parliamentary representatives is now beginning. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative will first speak for twelve minutes. The rest of you, I'm saying it right now, you've got six minutes, no seconds. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, the Ministers here are judging us, judging us, making general wordings. The Minister, Mr Papapas, did not answer any of the eight questions raised. The Undersecretary made an effort. I'll tell you what he said because I kept notes. I would first like to make it clear that we are not an area where we meet, ladies and gentlemen, to have a debate on everything. Mr Javarra was right to say that the government here has an obligation to answer this question. Let's go in a row, then. What are you falling in love here? Has the operational plan for ERT been drawn up in 2017-2020? Mr Pappas did not reply at all, the State Secretary said, if I understood correctly: 'We are working on it now, somewhere, wherever it may be submitted', etc. I would remind you that we are talking about the years 2017-2020. It ends in 2018 and we enter 2019. I imagine you'll bring it to us in 2019, we'll discuss it in 2020, and we'll agree in 2022! Has the structures of the ‘ERT S.A.’ been assessed? No answer from anyone, from alpha answering or from beta. Has staff been placed on the basis of the new regulation? No answer from either alpha or the second answerer. What do you have to answer complaints that organisational structures have been devalued? No answer from either alpha or beta. The fact that the new organogram has been denounced and that it has photographic devices no response either from alpha or beta. How is impartiality and objectivity ensured in the ‘ERT S.A.’ programme? No answer from either alpha or beta. How is transparency ensured? The Minister didn't answer. The Secretary-General replied as follows: Question: How does the cost-benefit ratio reflect? The Minister did not respond, Mr. Secretary told us a 40% and something, I did not understand it well. In general, however, he also referred us to "DENGY". What is the plan for ERT3? The Minister did not reply, the Minister of State referred us to the Balkans and to the Greek Presidentialism. For the autonomous signal, the Minister did not respond, the State Secretary told us that it was complete. But he didn't tell us in time. What action has the Ministry taken to investigate these complaints? The Minister did not respond and, as expected, the State Secretary did not respond. That's the answer. So what was the Minister now told us? The Minister has criticised us in twenty minutes of his speech and told us that ERT is at its best time - very good! - that it opens the way to the future - even more nice! - that the viewer was watching the Mundial had a camera option of 360th - even more important! - that the site is going very well - Great! - that all ERT channels can be seen on a screen. If I understood correctly, Minister, what colleagues are asking you is precisely backwards, that no one wants to see any channels on any screen on ERT, you know, not to see everything on a screen. For covering the coup in Turkey we really congratulate you from the heart! It was a big hit. In fact, you have renounced us because we do not agree that 61% -14%, the ratio between SYRIZA and the New Democracy, is reasonable, since SYRIZA happens to be government. Repeat: 61% -14%! Very good. So that is the answer to the honourable Member's question. But I want to understand this one minute. Here, you know, ladies and gentlemen, a stroke must be played because otherwise these things are not explained. The New Democracy had a legislative view. Wrong? The Greek people judged it. Obviously, if he agreed with us, we wouldn't have lost two elections. We voted for No 4173/2014. That was our opinion. The Greek society, the boss, judged us differently and voted for SYRIZA and ANEL. What was your concept, which was imposed and approved by Parliament? This Decision shall enter into force on What does this law express your will for television? I read Article 2: “The ERT helps to inform the Greek people”. It says all Greek people, it does not say SYRIZA part of the Greek people. In paragraph 3, brain jokes begin: "The ERT S.A. is a body of democracy and helps to ensure..." - Listen to this beautiful one! - '... of pluralism'. Apparently, it doesn't say pluralism by 61% -14%. It goes on to say: “... to the independent transmission of information. Services - says the legislation - "... must respect, in particular, the value of man". I ask: When the Chief of Antipopulation a little - is very likened to a spiritual father of fascism, is that respect for the value of man and, in particular, the country's fourth state factor? Is this an approach to respect for citizens? In paragraph 4, he says something even more nice: 'The ERT S.A.'. is independent of the State, of all actors and political parties and is governed only by the Constitution and current legislation.’ Of course, because all of this needs to be consolidated somewhere, it also has the most beautiful conclusion: "These..." - says - "...they can't only be provided by the law, the "ERT S.A." principle agreement must be signed with the Greek State, saying these things." Minister, if you would be kind enough to have this principle agreement, could Parliament see it? Because your law has been passed since 2015 and we go to 2019 slowly. I imagine that no matter how large the authorities are, four years we could have signed this agreement. Apparently, it was never signed or you hid it from us. But, ladies and gentlemen, the only way to defend this country really is not to take certain things seriously. Because the noble Minister for Digital Policy here appears - we all remember it - as the father of a series of legislative approaches, which - do not fool ourselves, and he will have confessed, I am sure, with great pride in his Marxist friends, he cannot confess to it in the Chamber, here is another game, in his judgment - were intended to control the communication landscape, to control the broadcasting system. That's what the Minister tried to do. Because the Council of State did not allow it, it was defeated. But that was his purpose. Watch out now. He himself, who seeks to control the scene, comes here as the preacher of pluralism, as the protector of objective information, as the man who teaches in Civicism because he does not see the obvious, that what he attempts is objective information rather than anything else. You know what would remind me of me? It's a little strange. As if we were to place King Herod as responsible for nursery education and have him to teach us a lesson about how to take infants into a better future! It's a little drawn, Minister. In any case, I would like to say this: ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely tell you that no one can take this government seriously anymore. There's no chance of that. Let's leave what we're talking about here. I am a parliamentary representative and have an obligation to link the ones to the wider scene. Please honestly tell me whether there is another government of a European or a serious country in the world, in which one member of the government - first-class ministry - blames the other member of the government for corruption and the member of the government who is accused of corruption - also the first-class minister - to answer charges for blackmail and this government standing, the Minister to support, to believe that there is nothing serious, that it is not so terrible two first-class ministers to cross-reference, one to tell the other corrupt and the other to call him a blackmailer. And the government goes on and on and on, and has the impression that this is how a modern European country is governed. Indeed, if I may read to you - because it matters - the twitter of the Foreign Minister, where he says: 'With mud, lies, under slander undermines the honor, reputation and dignity of mine'. And what charges does it make? ‘Occupants, corrupted, weaponry of the system’. These are addressed to an active Minister of your Government, Minister. And no one's answering, they don't feel that something has to say. And there is a letter from the Minister concerned in the hands of the Prime Minister of the country and the Prime Minister of the country does not feel the sensitivity of giving this letter to the public. Considers that it is within the logic of things and within their normal course to overthrow his ministers in this way and "we all go well and well and no matter what, we are a modern country and everything". Otherwise, the Minister invented the New Democracy as a darknessist, as not ready to see the many positive things that this government has done, as a party which is not ready to enter into a creative dialogue for the future. Mr President, I should like to be honest with you: we will prefer to such dialogues that you have developed at the Ministerial Council to stay outside. I will only ask you, when you resolve in this creative and nice way all that concerns you, to inform us of these very important issues and issues, namely who is the corrupt, who is the blackmailer and how the country's defence and foreign policy can be left to such hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u157	Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, MEP I Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, the option - you will allow me, Mr Chiara - to choose Mr Teddy as Parliament's representative. And I say this because I am tabling this in the Minutes: "On 7 November 2013, the operation of eight-dimensional MAs headed by a Brigadier General, not in the yard of the ERT, but in the same building of ERT, stopping the television show in the air." I say this for these guys, who have been named alternate representatives - the last day they would probably make the fake taper shows - who were asking, on the occasion of a recent history of democratic reflectives. Who's talking about democratic reflectives? The guys who sent eight MATs? I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And all this on Mr. Dendia's orders. During the police operation, four journalists were sent, Nikos Tsibidas, the president of POSPERT and the journalists Angeliki Chalascu and Mr Maurides, who were then released. The message of the ERT workers at the time and today goes on to say: 'We call on all citizens in the Radiomear, call on all citizens at the local offices of the ERT to defend the voice of democracy'. "A little while ago powerful police forces," Nikos Tsibidas said, "have entered the Radiomegaro. They've given a strict schedule for evacuating the building. Otherwise, they will arrest all those who remain within." "When the phones are silenced, what will be heard" - Nikos Tsibidas said - "it will not be ERT, it will not be the workers of Free Radio Television. Don't legalize them with your hearing and viewing!'. Of course, not only the listeners but also the directors of the NERIT, the televised Parthenon, who promised, themselves, were not legalized enough later. The last words of Nikos Tsibidas were: "Here I must leave you. Soul deep." And that's what's going on with us. Please for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the same day, Vice-President Adonis Georgiadis said by twitter to Mr. Dendias: "Our Minister, although I am in Kazakhstan, came the good news here. Finally! The Vice President said, congratulating the Minister of Public Order Nikos Treasury on the operation of the eight-dimensional MATs. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the model of ERT - NERIT IM, the format - abortion - is this, without technicians, but with cheeks, without journalists, but with police officers, with no administrative workers, but with repressive forces. You want this ERT, you want, you seek, you organize, you design, you design, the authoritarian ERT, an instrument to suppress opinions, perceptions and consciences. The Greek people, who have been on our side since the first moment, will not allow it. It has not been allowed and will not be allowed to do so in the future. What are you trying to do? You seek to say "we are the same", to clear out the eagle of "black" with the alleged malfunctions of the present, that of the "black" of the closed ERT with the alleged malfunctions of this open ERT and to say "see also they do the same". Where we were owed, they're also asking for the ox! Where it should be apologised for the tens of billions, Mr Minister, the 'black' and the hundreds of millions directly allocated to 'DIGEA' - I will say later - the guilty person does not do so. The ERT's patrons and predators cannot ask for the Greek people's courtesy because they have become orphans. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I come directly to those who dare to say 'the same is the same'. Samaras on 28-6-2013 answered the question why he closed the ERT and fired the three thousand workers: "All those who have ruled so far have committed errors in ERT. Of course PASOK was also appointed, and the NW was appointed, but because I like to call them outside, both were appointed mainly left-wing people. So we have said no more of that." That's what Mr. Samaras said at the 9th regular conference. This is the one side. Our look is the appearance of Law.4324/29 April 2015. In Article 16A - and I put this down - it says that 'all types of private law contracts, which, on 11 June 2013, were employed in ERT and which were solved, are being reactivated from now on'. They were all fired from Samaras as left. They have all been re-elected - I stress, they have all been re-elected - by Tsipras as workers. Is there no difference - I am also speaking in parole for my colleagues - that you see no difference, do you not see any difference at all? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the names now. You are not entitled to invoke what Nikos Michalitsis and Nikos Philis declared. I'll say why. Selectively invoke Nikos Michalitsi. I'll read their speeches through the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Triantafylide, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u160	I shall conclude, Mr President. They refer to the open, reservoir and living ERT, where some things will have to change. You use their words to build the closed, dead, sterile public TV and NERIT, ERT caricature. This is what you seek, a little clutching and unscrupulous ERT. I'll testify for the Minutes. Mr Kourakis, if you are kind, because so many things have been said and it is a matter that concerns me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u161	I don't have the kindness. It's a matter of rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u162	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u163	In thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u164	Let me say that Mr. Javarras spoke seventeen minutes with permission...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u165	That's another matter. He's got his denture, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u166	Okay. As you can see. Michalitsis, 21-10-2015, speaks to the Public Administration Committee. He says there was a crime on June 11 that ERT closed and only this issue - it speaks of 'DIGEA', there are other infinite crimes - it has cost 4 million in two years. Within two years ERT would buy the three hundred twenty transmitters and in the two years it gave them a rent to DIGEA. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Nikos Michalitsis says that you invoke him completely selectively. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thousands of millions in ERT from the absence of the "ERT World", because of the "Black" five million more, because you "patriots" who closed the "ERT Sat" and the "ERT World" and the frequency that Greeks in Brussels listened to the Greek voice and the Greek program entered a Turkish channel. You who entered the logic of demolishing the huge antenna of the "voice of Greece" from the rocks to sell for scrap, even entered that logic. I conclude with what Nikos Michalitsis said, which you invoke, for the DIGEA competition. On June 11, ERT was closed. Why did it close on June 11th? Because on June 19th it was going to be a competition. What competition? For the provider. No-one's antagonist. Only ‘DIGEA’. What is "DIGEA"? Who are the shareholders? ‘MEGA’, ‘ANT1, ‘STAR’, ‘SCAI’. Who's to give a signal? ‘MEGA’, ‘ANT1, ‘STAR’, ‘SCAI’. In other words, "Yiannis is buying and Yiannis drink".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u167	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u168	Menelaos Daskalakis, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Transport, commissioned in 2012 the study of how much money we would get from the rental of the digital signal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u169	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u170	Analysys Mason said 715 million. How much did they get from DIGEA? They took 18 million. I'm presenting for Nikos Michalitsi's Practical article. You've been caught by love for Nikos Michalitsis and you're invoking him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u171	You've done your time very much, Mr. Triantafylides. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u172	I just want to close...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u173	No 'only'. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u174	Let me note, if I may, that this process is a constant process and we cannot compare black, closed, boned with what is happening now. What we need, Minister, is what all the workers, journalists, technicians and managers have said at the open assemblies. In other words, ERT's compass to be buttoned on the social palmographer, picking up the messages of the unemployed, the homeless, the social reasoning. We want this ERT and this ERT we will continue to claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u175	Thank you. I would ask the next parliamentary representatives to be in time. Now to Mr Triantafylides because of the journalistic status has become an overrun. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We need to find an explanation every time. The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the two Ministers and the majority parliamentary representative, I am thinking of the joke that ends with the words 'you people who oppress blacks'. You'll all remember it from our old years, students. Other things say the criticism you are being made, other things you have come to this House today to tell us. That is why I am compulsorily compelled for a few seconds to table personal positions and the Change Movement. We were and I was against "black" on TV in the summer of 2013. We are and I am against the embargo the SYRIZA party is exercising in SKAI and the New Democracy in ERT. Just, as I said to Mr Cretso, when we had a debate on this last week, I am not going to ERT because I am being devastated. And there are reasons for dignity that make me, as long as I'm reassured, I don't go there. But ERT is public television. I pay for it too, my voters pay for it, and the voters pay for it, and every citizen pays for it. You're a minority in relation to the rest of the ladies and gentlemen of the government. Each citizen pays not to have this result produced. Finally, we are in favour of public television. But public television is not "SYRIZA-CHANNEL", it is not the majority TV. It is a public television that basically puts forward a task of government that private channels, because of little interest, would not do, and that is its usefulness, but it is not its role to defend in a disgraceful way many times and abusive for opponents - I am one of the people I find myself here - the issues that concern the interests of the ruling parties rather than the Greek people. I believe, Mr Pappa, that your position here is difficult. First of all, you are the Minister - and your colleague, Mr Cretsos - of an omnipotent government, in which, at meetings, they are being held in the top of the ministerial meeting, with arguments relating to the management of money, on a subject that has a very large international audience. The whole western hemisphere of the world deals not with what Greece will do with another country that concludes a bilateral agreement, but with a bilateral agreement that has extended to NATO enlargement. At this audience, your critical meeting contains arguments of this kind about the content. And a Prime Minister awkward is humorous and says things else, which we are learning, and you are both present. Really, Minister, did the government get money from Soros to promote the agreement with FYROM? He said it to your colleague, I'm not saying it! Your colleague at the meeting told you and you were there. What did you say when you spoke? You are also a Minister, beyond what we are saying today and about the news and the news reports of the channels that were aspiring and struggling to obtain your permissions. In that television world, the news that Greece is discussing today and confronting political parties had no place. If you could, you'd hide her, you'd have drowned her. But for this meeting of the Ministerial Council in an open society, such as ours, everyone has learned and - unfortunately for Greece - they have learned it and the attendants have learned it in the rest of Europe, in the United States, in Canada. So, here today, in the capacity of the Minister overseeing the state media and in his day, the news releases - and in particular the news releases - have been transformed into disinformation and misinformation transmitters. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, this timely question was asked myself last week and we had a debate with the Minister here. And many times in my speech I had made relevant reports of the ERT. But I didn't keep in mind what your people said. When we in this House, here, criticised ERT, we did not know that ERT was being run. We have not heard that strange productions are being made, that for self-interest reasons they do what they do for self-interest. We are making political criticism in our speech. They're your executives. I, too, do not repeat Mr Krimbali's words - they have been recorded - nor Mr Philly's strong political criticism! These are recorded. But on this, I am making my criticism of it, and I say that you were broadening the front of criticism from anti-corruption partyism, the administration. Don't you have to answer that? You have to answer it. What do you say to us here 'whoever sees, how many see the Panathinaikos Panonios match'? A lot of people will see it, and that's good. But we did not say that today. We didn't ask you how much viewing was in the Panathinaikos Panonios match. We have asked you all about everything that has been said here, about everything my question had in its contents, about everything in the outlines, that is, soon and in a concise way, I am trying here to report to you. Instead, you tell us more. You came here to tell how well you were doing your job and how good ERT is over your days. There are very strong disagreements on these, substantiated. But we didn't ask you that. You are obliged to answer: Is there an embassy? What did Mr. Krimbalis say? What did the rest of the ERT journalists who called the prosecutor and their club - I don't know their trade unions well - who denounced them? That's what we're asking you about. That's what you need to answer. And as long as you do not respond, both the distinction in relation to the information we have drawn up, because this is the right diagnosis of reality, it is that we as a Central Left Party, the Social Democracy, are a party that ranks among the forces of open society and you confirm your position, your categorisation to the enemies of open society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u177	Thank you to Mr Loverdos and to the consistency of time. The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiaris. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u178	ERT has now become a nest of SYRIZA Stalinist maniacs, who are violating the law and the Constitution, and I am explaining: As political crooks who are rulers, they were elected by denouncing the "black" to the ERT. They come today and they throw "black" themselves into the country's third political power, the Golden Dawn. Speaks the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn Nikolaos Michaloliakos to the party's parliamentary group, "Black" to the ERT. There is the press conference of the People's Association - Golden Dawn at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and the ERT shows the "Small House in the Meadows", which we saw when we were twelve years old, and throws "black" into the country's third political power. They have four whole years to invite a representative of the Golden Dawn. Since taking over the government of the country they have been calling for a representative of the third political force to speak freely. This is a flagrant violation of the law and the constitution by a gang of Stalinist men, workers, adherent to SYRIZA's anti-national authority. Because if the voice of the Golden Dawn in the TV channels was heard, then we would not be a third party, but we would be a first party. All propaganda, communist propaganda! They expose the communist crimes of "OPLA", criminals who blooded Greece between 1946 and 1949. You see ERT and you think you're in the Soviet Union of the '50s. You see all the time, Marx, Stalin and Trotsky. Possibly not Trotsky, because Stalin pinned his pit on his head and not only on him, but also on another sixty million people killed by your father, your ideological ancestor, whom you excite and project through this channel, through the public television, a gang of state-owned scumbags who throw "black" on Gold Dawn. Because - it says - we are fascists, nazis, extreme right-wing, pigeons and throwing us 'black'. But when it's about getting our money from the five hundred thousand Gold Dawn fans, the Nazis, the fascist, the pussy money you're buying us as usual. This gang normally pockets them and takes capitalist cars and capitalist spitrons in the northern suburbs, the communists, who are currently running the Greek Radio Television. So you rob Greek citizens in this way, who should not normally pay this fee, this robbery fee, which is attributed to workers and to an administration sold and to lacquer journalists, who have their only concern to expose the anti-national, unethnic policy of the authority of SYRIZA. But one day we will come to things, a national government will come and ask for this money back and tell them: "You all the workers, journalists and the managers who took this money from the Greek citizens, return it to us" and for the public to be in favour of the capitalist cars with which all these factors circulate today. As a parliamentary representative, I also have a duty to speak on the major issue of the days, because, as you know, the Ambassadors' Agreement has been in Skopje. The historian of the future will not mention it as "the Prespecies Agreement", but as "the traitors' pact, because it is all the traitors who signed it and all those who supported this ethnicist government, who gave the name of Macedonia. It was very reasonable for this treacherous agreement to pass on to Skopje. And leave the tales with the American secret services. There are also Russians in Skopje, who also do their job. The Prespecies Agreement passed and was passed in Skopje, because it is a philosophical, resurrected agreement, which gives it all to the county of the comedian. And we had predicted it, and it was a given that the Skopje comedians would vote for it. SYRIZA's socks gave them land and water and the Skopje coopers said 'yes'. And he said brain burned Pan-Cammen was not going to pass. He was selling lies, fairy tales to the Greek people, another political crook. He did, of course, invoke the involvement of the United States. All right, it's a given fact that you are first class rats of the United States of America, United States agents, you once said the slogan "Knowledge of peoples, Americans", today you are the rats of the Americans, but that's not why this ethnic agreement was voted on in Skopje. The reason is that it was an agreement that assigned everything to one of the great enemies of Hellenism today. And I am not saying much of this Land in terms of defence and security. It is a state of people who may be unbelievable, may be Slavs of poorer quality, called Boban, Zoran, Dusan, and think they are descendants of ancient Macedonians, but surely they are not a fool. And when you give them a deal that serves their interests, they'll say yes and they'll support it. So you are also lying because, when you asked for the vote of the Greek people, you did not say that you would betray Macedonia, you are also thieves, because Kammenos speaks for 50 million, Kotzias speaks for 10 million. Where are the 40 million missing? Where are the millions that Europeans have given to make Greece Banana and fill it with illegal immigrants? So you're also liars and thieves and traitors. This is your government. Of course you are servants of foreign interests and foreign forces. And you know what the law provides for thieves, traitors and foreign forces agents. And there will come a truly national government in Greece, which will send you where you deserve, which will enforce the law and lead to prison all those who over the years are destroying our country, assigning our history, assigning Macedonia's name to the Land of Slavs and comets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u179	We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u180	We heard that too, that ERT is making communist propaganda. I guess it should make propaganda racist for poorer people, like what we heard just now, or for Hitler's concentration camps, which the Nazis of the Golden Dawn praise. Ladies and gentlemen, the case of ERT is another characteristic case of how SYRIZA and New Democracy agree, while basically agreeing with the policy, they are fighting about who will have the upper hand in implementing this policy. On the one hand, the New Democracy and the PASOK criticise the government that it has turned ERT into a government slate, when the very same - but just the same - did their own governments, reaching the point of closing down the ERT. On the other hand, SYRIZA, the Government, seeks an alibi in the 'black' of the New Democracy and the PASOK, to justify the present unacceptable situation, according to which ERT is converted into a copy of that time, which no relationship has with what its workers fought for at the time of 'black'. Manolius changed and put on his clothes differently. And that is what most people and ERT workers themselves perceive. What are the data on this estimate? An uncovered government propaganda that breaks bones and sometimes goes beyond the official government position. And it makes sense, because that's where the information comes from other roads and corridors. This is done in the vast majority of the newsletters and emissions, and many times without a copy, beyond the double, by journalists, many of whom do not even belong to the permanent staff of the ERT, but are workers of other means and who revolve government positions, from the so-called memorandum to the full outrage of the government's foreign policy involving the country in dangerous US plans. Only to the American Ambassador you have not yet given a show, to advertise the policy of the United States, the good cooperation you have with your Government or about how great it will be to offer the bases they want to build in Greece. Secondly, in the absence of objective information, even this unacceptable law on proportional representation of parties does not comply with. What are the elements, Mr Papa, your PSE, the PSE of whose composition you agreed with New Democracy and the PASOK? In 2017, from the annual report: In some broadcasts on the JRC, participation is 4.8%, as regards the news reports at the ERT is 3.1%. Terrible objectivity. Is that why there's an answer? Is there a response to the fact that while there are parties that are under-represented in ERT news and news reports, at the same time - beyond SYRIZA, which is a given one - there are other parties or their executives who are overrepresented in both the reports and the broadcasts and perhaps some future government partners? Do you have an answer, Minister, to the fact that the JRC since the reopening of the ERT four years ago did not have a journalist with the main responsibility for covering the activities of our party and that this was actually the case, as was the case with other journalists, who had other responsibilities and with the ambition of these people? Is that why there's a government position? Isn't that another type of autocracy? Of course, this situation does not exist in ERT alone, there is in the whole of the channels and shows how different the so-called new television scenery that the government and Mr Pappas advertised is. Other information: Harassment of ERT's permanent workers, in whose name, otherwise, you drink water, and utilization by corporations of mixed and external producers, which are the vehicle and to have partnerships with private entrepreneurs, but also with journalists to reproduce government propaganda, despite your promises, and your own, that these productions will be abolished or limited to a minimum. Not to talk about the performances of ERT on the part of culture, which is in contradiction with the level of ERT staff and people. You said about the TV show. You know, Minister, I was one of the million who attended yesterday's ERT. He had both Panathinaikos - Panionios and the PAOK - ARS game had saspins. Is that a criterion? Excuse me, are we kidding? Is that a criterion for the quality of broadcasting? You said about profitability, it's profitable. Is that a criterion? And the ERT continues to pay off the debt bill. It's not exactly what you said this had stopped. But what are the criteria? Whether it has "ball" and whether it is the 300-degree camera and not the essential criteria that should concern the people, its information, its entertainment and culture. With regard to the employment rights and rules of operation which have recently been introduced, to talk about workers in fact, for which no one spoke, all the harmful changes to work have been made in the past: ERT contractors remain unpaid overtime - holidays from the period before closure. In technical staff, as well as in the part of the ERT mixed producers used by their buildings and engineering facilities, such personnel are, in most cases, contractors, and there are late payment delays, as appropriate, depending on the contractor, and a variety of industrial relations. The ERT regulation strengthens the role of managers and the management right, which makes every employee the manager's ballast, even for harmful changes. It establishes the assessment on subjective criteria and in conjunction with the fact that the ERT is the'magasy' of the government in question it is understood that these criteria will primarily be political. That is why it introduces a series of addresses and services, from Human Resources Directorate to Security and Internal Audit Service, which create a suffocating mechanism for manipulating workers. So, in all this, where does the New Democracy and the PASOK disagree? Didn't they do the same as governments? The same instruments didn't work out? What's their problem? That they don't have the upper hand and want to get it again. To do what? To become the government propaganda from intolerable, as Mrs Asmakopoulou said, what? More bearable. Or instead of Mr. Capsachas saying about D'Anuncio, Pantsio, that Mr. Javaras would say that all these fascists were Marxists, Leninists and all those amazing things we heard a moment ago. So - and I conclude - the more responsible the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is for the current situation, but the more hypocritical is the attitude of the New Democracy and PASOK, which have done exactly the same. And we say again that this is a long way from what ERT workers fought for and must continue to fight, especially those who are not compatible with this reality. We don't fall off the clouds. We anticipated it. These are the media, whether private or state. They act as mechanisms for the reproduction of sovereign ideology and politics, as a permanent "black" towards the people, their problems, their needs and their information. We call for improvements, of course, both to be made to the issue of information and to the issue of labour rights. However, what needs to be targeted is precisely the role of the media, the need to make all this social property within a state which will run the risk of the people and the workers themselves. Of course, your government does nothing of this. He continues the way of the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. It has been about thirty years since the then director of "Le Monde Diplomatique", Ignasio Ramonet, wrote a book entitled "The geopolitical of chaos". He described in incredible detail that in modern societies there will be those who control the media. And because television is one of them, clearly watched by Ramone in this book - it may be thirty-five years - that politics will make those who control the media. I'll be honest. 'BBC', no, it's not ERT1 and it's made mistakes. I have carefully read the timely question, based on six, seven employees or even grievous politicians, who make complaints. Respectful. Because I happened to be in the group that we have been all concerned with scandals in health for months, no one has yet explained why CEDEFOP provided money supposedly for communication on big channels, small channels, individual journalists and goes by saying. Unbelievable number of journalists is found in the case. We don't have evidence from gossip or from nothing, it's legal. Of course, these people did not steal them, they were given EUR 400,000, EUR 100,000, EUR 200,000, what you can imagine. We were not answered why this money was going until 2015 - because after 2015 not even half of the euro was given for communication purposes. And because, incidentally, for months we've been tortured, we've been tortured by Officer Resistance's friends, mostly, but also by the Opposition - for what reason, why? - We fought to become the National Broadcasting Council. Oh of the miracle, then, one of the blockages after another. Why is that? Can this question be answered by someone? Because there are many people in this Chamber, with arguments, with passion, etc. For me, the answer is one. It's the withdrawal syndrome. Because from one point to the next they were unable to fund the people who expected support, they had to sabotage a legality. A unanimous decision of the Council of State was said in 2010. What are you doing? They're evacuating without permission. Get them money. To pay! And that government had to come, after a twenty-year period of time - that has something to do with what we are saying today - with a thousand million, with suffering, etc. - not to say what happened, and it has received 0.5 billion, the Minister told you before. We were throwing that away? Did we do it? Why? In a society that suffers, in a society where a large part of it is below the poverty line, in a society that was handed over bankrupt, it has received 0.5 billion. What do you have to tell us about this? Why didn't you? What prevented you from doing it? I'm telling you the answer. You didn't care what's going on with the world. You should have checked the media, so you could pass your policy. Otherwise, you didn't have any luck going through it. So you could pass offshore! So you could pass the economic heavens! So you could carry enormously billions abroad! Otherwise, you couldn't. I'm coming to this. Let me tell you something else. I'll always tell you. Suggestions for democracy by people who owe, the two parties together, 0.5 billion to have credibility, tell us how you can get the loan back to your parties. It has nothing to do with today's debate, but it's a matter of credibility. When you're guardians here, you'll have to answer. Because when I owe 100 euros, I'm ashamed to go through the sidewalk where I owe them. I'll give them first, and then I'll talk. I'm closing the parentheses. One of the seven objections raised by the Qualified Objection, the third, says: 'How is impartiality and objectivity guaranteed in its programme'? He obviously means to the ERT program. He's doing good and he's asking. So I'm getting caught by that, and I'm asking: does society have the right to be truly informed? Yes or no? Does any government have to do that? Listen to some examples, because I don't like to speak theoretically, how respectful you show this objection to impartiality and objectivity. I would like to remind you of one by one of all the inaccuracies that you tolerated from the people you were paying for to obtain directional information: Irregularity first. And I'm telling you recent events. Ancients - he says - go to the superstate. We've had a couple of ten days. You had invested in this. We heard he's going to be a cutter and then the first memorial and then the second one. It never happened. It was a summer night dream. Do you know that I have evidence here that the channels you financed every day tied up this news? Recently we heard that 1 billion 600 million was eaten for refugees. The European Union itself has had to give all the information to stop this error. Four - five channels of your own daily tied up false inaccuracy. I still can't forget what happened in the 2015 referendum. I have never been against the European Union and yet what did the channels that you have financed through CEDEFOP do then call for? “No” means no to the European Union.” That's the impartiality and objectivity you're asking for now. And yet, you had invested in pensions. Every day from morning to night five - four channels bombing and terrorizing the citizen: “They will cut off your pension! They'll cut your pension!' Three days ago, therefore, the European Union, by the most official body, accepted that no pension is cut. You stopped investing in this, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u183	Please complete, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u184	Give me a minute. And we've reached the point where you're starting to tire with the channels you're controlling, with what ensures impartiality and objectivity in their program, aggregation in the banks. And Draghi himself had to pick you up and tell you that he had nothing to do with the ten-year bond you're asking for. I ask directly, to answer, what false news since 2015 - one has been saying ERT's television? I did not say it was 'BBBC', I did not say it was wrong. You don't have any false news! If you have one, tell me one! You don't have anyone! Can it improve more? Yeah, maybe. I don't want to talk about hybrid TV. You've been over it arrogantly drinking. Did you know her, did you hear her? That the world's going forward? And because I heard a catastrophic storm, Carla's lake was dried. Do you know it's going to be a lake again?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u186	No, I want to finish, Mr President. Give me room. The waterplanes, which take off the island, are now being introduced. The connection between mainland Greece and Crete at the level of natural gas and electricity. Something changes in this country I believe definitively and irrevocably. You're taking me to other levels. I did not expect you to despise democracy and fly, excuse me for saying that, like dogs two and a half thousand workers, you would ask this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u187	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman for the River Mr. Gregory Psarianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because I had a power cut very little before, I hope PPC will not shut down the switches because we're talking about ERT. We'll talk about PPC sometime. The day before, I was a zapping by watching TV and passed by ERT1 and I saw a show of political dialogue with pluralism in which journalists described how the ministers of the government were dismantling in the rumours, denouncing each other as a blackmailer, thief, "who is money", "give the money", the reasons, "you are in favor, I am against" etc. Did they say a lot of very thick things and I say 'if possible'? I'm going to ERT2 and I see the same thing. At some point this thing was so intense that I woke up sweating and shaking. I say, if possible, thank God I live! I thought I was dead! Watching this TV, this public TV is a very big achievement. I've heard too many people who have removed from the options on the remote and all three ERT channels. I don't know if they're gonna put the fourth one they're gonna make, the sport. I have been through the ERT, and I have worked at the ERT two and a half years since the twenty-four semesters and continuously being on the radio at eleven private radio stations. I also went through ERT for three years, both from the first programme and from the fourth programme at the time on Vergos - God squeeze him - on the government of Andreas Papandreou, after the government of Constantine Karamanlis, after the government of Constantine Simitis with President "Pan - Pan" and with Radio Director Giannis Jadeakos. There has always been a trajectory, a soux of mush, and that was a little heavy, etc., but in any case, despite the fact that Marouses, Rumbles, various - now I do not want to say different names, because many of them are not here, but they hear us from where they are - I said that they cannot continue for much longer this situation and with a radio landscape that has not been licensed, they have never come up with any government in any more than one consensual procedure, they have to legislate and give legal permissions to the channels, radios until we have arrived to smash, Minister, at the radars for a month, and so we are back in an auction for who will give most of the most, they have taken with thirty, another with sixty-seven pan-Hellenic TV channel, until we went down and go back to the same one, but it is not very well-sed, but it is not very well-sed government-sed. No party should ever be a government, and it should never be, especially when you see a television, and you hear a radio that plays, say, various rebels, the second rebel, in fact the Democratic Army, not the ELAS, who plays various, biography by Che Gevara, Kim Young Sun, Kim Yong Eun, that is to say, a number of left-wing programs, which, of course, I am following them with interest. Does it seem to me that in a free democratic, pluralist, multi-speaking and favoured parliamentary regime - democratic again - we have televisions that are the 'TAS', 'NOVOSTI' and newspapers that are 'PRAD' or 'STRAVITIA' with similar subjects and with a theme that journalists with tough questions ask the guests and say 'this wonderful government of the people like you very much, too or too much'? They're asking this question and they're getting the same answers. Anyone who says "true, too", all right goes through. Anyone who says 'good' is in the house', rather devastated and does not see it again, eats it 'black', this 'black', which I strongly protesting about the closure of the ERT on Samaritan owls didn't see any 'black', black blacks constantly emitting. I saw two days a "black" at first he played "The small house in the meadow" and wrote from above that the ERT workers opposed etc., in the way the government tried to collapse etc. It was not written under the signature Panagiotis Kalfayiannis, but ERT today is the ultimate trick of "Kalfayanism", where sometimes very intensely attempts to overcome governmentism, stateism and the ideological obsessions of its pro-government manipulation. In fact, from the very left - and I wonder how the 'Rubic' opened an office in Philosophy rather than in ERT - ERT OPEN was emitted for a long time and continues - I think - to broadcast to public radio, saying things that are outrageous, describing situations that are outrageous. I have worked in private and public broadcasting twenty-three consecutive years, and I have met strange things, but this strange bird called ERT is not even as democratic as YENS was. That is why I have often referred to it as 'YENERT'. I think that those who are attending this sitting, the brief debate we are having on ERT, will have very well understood what it is all about. Although they are pleased to see Panonios - Panathinaikos who could not see it elsewhere, the private channels have paid for the groups that took the rights much less than the ERT paid for the seven groups it bought with 52 million. The rest of the people have paid less, even though they are the big sharks of capital that drink the blood of the people with the stove bath and which I was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one sponsored by Bobola and various other big-time and large-scale media owners and state-owned businessmen who wanted to open TV channels and who cut them off on the street of Patras - Tower in eight pieces, to give them a piece, a piece, a cherry on the cake at the end of the day, after we had smashed them into the ranges to give them the channels or we didn't get them. I have here all the operational description of what is happening today at the ERT. I don't have time. I will make all this public somewhere, with my personal appreciation and opinion of how a free public broadcasting service can function. Neither state government nor any party government nor any horns, except those who of course have a private channel and pay and say they like what they like. This is another issue and it is also a question of ERT's guests always being a lick of cooperation with SYRIZA or support for SYRIZA, and those who oppose and make tough criticism of the SYRIZA - ANEXEL government whose boss is Panos Kammenos, of course, because the Prime Minister is a donor, as they once said for some Papademos. He is a donated Prime Minister from Panos Kammenos. The boss is Panos Kammenos. The Alexelites and the Syrians and the Syrians can as much as they want to go to the ERT and talk, but not pull the fights out, and unravel themselves, as I watched in my sleep. We've asked three questions about ERT. I have a personal and other two together with other colleagues from the river. I had asked such questions before that I have not been answered. In neither of these three questions we have asked over the last two years, no sub-species have been answered. None of these three. I shall submit them to the Minutes and hope that they will be answered sometime. I hope that the next government, whatever it is, does not look at this post-Soviet, paranoid system of manipulation of public opinion at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u189	We shall proceed to the last of the parliamentary representatives. Parliamentary Representative from the Association of Centres and Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, because when you were uploaded, you told us in general, as far as the figures are concerned, all those who are here - and I am sure you might call them inconsistent with what I am about to say - I have to inform you, because I read the figures and I see even the quarters of the viewing, that there is not a quarter that Greek television, public television oversees a station.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u191	You're wrong. That's a total lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u192	I'm wrong. All right, bring the evidence to see 'cause I have evidence. Also, I don't know if you're proud, even at "MEGA", which you're closing, its average terms are higher with repetitions than the so-called "Small House on the Meadow", "Rettire" or whatever it has. He closes as he closes, okay, with the debts he has. It could survive somehow, buyers exist. Anyway, even the "MEGA" makes higher numbers than public television, which I am not particularly pleased about. We are now participating, as the Central Association, in the debate, in an enlarged debate, not because we agree with the New Democracy logic of monitoring public television, but unfortunately because many of the things that are mentioned in the current question text are true. Today, of course, the late interest of PASOK and the New Democracy, which has been burdened for forty years by the interventions and mismanagement of ERT, with a peak in 2013, the so-called 'black', which ERT then closed, at least we are not convinced. This, however, cannot give any right to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to have become ERT and to have turned it into a normal state paradigm, to a branch of the centrals of Koumoundouros, indifferent to any objectivity, for which programmes are presented to the ERT, for whatever quality and, of course, as I have said, for the very low rates of viewing. It is unacceptable that there should be SYRIZA's great-minister, such as Mr Philis, who is now absent, but who was here - and fights with the Minister for the Situation in ERT, speaking of administration. It is unacceptable that there should be resignations, such as the designated programme consultant, Mr Krimbalis, who has denounced unprecedented manipulations, with 'days' placements. It is unacceptable that the Deputy Chief Executive Officer for Radiophony, Mr Seaman, speaks of the exclusion of competent executives, of the lack of accountability and, above all, of a lack of a strategic vision for public television. It is unacceptable for the technology manager to report a deterioration in the programme. In addition to this, we read in the press that there is a conflict, Mr. Papa, between you and Mr. Tsakalotus, for three hundred recruitments you and Mr. Tsakalotos do not approve of. Speaking on this issue, I would remind you that in a timely question that I made to you on 1 December 2017, which concerned these recruitments and lack of staff, I was asking you whether you had taken the appropriate steps to justify why we wanted to do these recruitments, which were two hundred six in number. You told me that it is something you are planning, that there is a shortage of speakers, musical producers, more generally technical staff, and you said that you have launched all the procedures necessary for the conclusion of fixed-term contracts for two hundred and six people, as requested by the management of the agency. Since then, about a year has passed and not a single study has been seen to have come to the public. All we can see is that these two hundred six people have already become three hundred. These three hundred, because there are elections coming, there will be five hundred or a thousand. Here you are, to disprove us in the future. In fact, in the Central Association, we have to admit something that ERT is the only channel to present the President's speeches, wherever they may be found. That's good. Still, we can't close our eyes in everything else. We also have some private channels that do not host the representatives of the Centro Association, as they do with parties at a similar rate, such as Potami or ANEL, which we always see show them in relation to us. We also realise very well that the choice of ERT's policy is everywhere, both on the ground and abroad, but you must convince us that these shortcomings in the recruitment you really want to make are real and are not of a rhetoric nature. In any case, Mr Minister, ERT currently lists two thousand two hundred and fifty-four employees. The number is too high, even if there are five television stations and twenty-seven radios under the auspices of Greek television. So, please, today is an opportunity to present us with an updated composition of ERT staff and indeed to have a remuneration analysis by post - not of course nominal. We don't demand that. We want to know how many money they get, to see how many people are actually working, how many produce work, if there are shortages and to know at the end of the day where this money comes from the reward fee, because the Greek people pay it, right? That is why, because the Greek people are paying and we have to account to the Greek people, I find it unacceptable that there should be a journalist who has expressed himself against any political leader in the way he has expressed himself and has not given explanations, but who should continue to work there, and that he has not asked for a single apology. In addition to all these gossipes, however, I would like to say that the very serious problems of ERT - and I will conclude with that, Mr President - are easily identified even by a very simple reading of the annual financial report for 2017, which was distributed to us a few days ago. Let's go to page 5, where there is an absolute catalytic observation from the auditors with the comment he says: "We were unable to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence in order to verify the revenues from the reward fee of Law 4173/2013 in total amount of EUR 181.5 million...". ‘We therefore reserve a reservation on the abovementioned amount of revenue.’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u193	Does it say that for 2013?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u194	We are now talking about page 5 of the 2017 financial report, which was delivered to us a few days ago. I'm telling you about L.4173/2013 and the reward fee. It states precisely: ‘We therefore maintain a reservation on the above amount of revenue.’ The auditors do not know the amount of 181.5 million from where it came from and where it is. That's what I'm telling you. See the auditors' financial report on page 5 in particular. Refer to the report to see the auditors' comment. In other words, even for the one and only income that may exist or for one of the revenues that ERT has, auditors raise their hands up, because they don't know where it's going. Go to page 102, which states that the "insecure customers" account has more than doubled to use 2017 compared to the previous one. From EUR 6,5 million, which was around 2016, it amounted to EUR 13.5 million in 2017. In fact, Minister, I would like a simple explanation of where this launch and the more doubling of the 'insecure customers' account line is due. Finally, and I regret what I will say, Minister, about today's ERT, but the way the SYRIZA - ANEL government has made it, the figures show that no Greeks see it, no Greeks listen to it...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u195	But how do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u196	...and the worst of all, no Greek wants to pay her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. We are now entering the cycle of the second readings of the honourable Member. We're moving on with Mrs. Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou. Although you have exceeded time in your prototype, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the fact that we had to overthrow and interpret, with the help of the services of this House, about the presence of the second State Secretary here today - I obviously accept the procedure - I take it as a political compliment. Obviously, Mr Pappas needs aid to respond to his structured opposition to the issue of public television, which he certainly does not hesitate to conserve and discredit the new extra-parliamentary 'State of Aid'. You are two, but you did not answer the basic question and the reason why we were here today to ask this topical question and the procedure and all these complaints, which are not from us, from the Opposition. These are complaints by people within the ERT, by journalists, by managers, by your own MPs. What about these complaints? To get in touch now. You talked to us 20 minutes each and ten minutes each. Okay, we all have a policy agenda. The others? Are they all crazy and liars? All those people who talk about everything that's going on inside the ERT are lying? Everyone, but everyone, is lying? No-one, but no-one, deserves the basic respect within a parliamentary procedure to get a concrete answer to what he denounces? Anyone? You're two here today. Apart from being disrespectful and unresponsible to anyone, you have also achieved something terriblely impressive. You said nothing new, neither one nor the other, in half an hour. You didn't say anything new. Mr. Poppas is suffering from some kind of post-traumatic political syndrome. Every time he comes up to the Stepma, he must tell us the same tape, the same story, because he cannot recover from this political crusade of unconstitutional law, not the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u199	Two.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u200	Come on, back with the tape. How many more times are we gonna say it? We've had this conversation before, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u201	But you insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u202	How many times have you been here to change your law? How many times has that law changed? How tortured must it be for you to be the parliamentary sled and remember yourself here to say about the study of Florence, which was the last 'four permits', 'is there no way more than four permits'? They've asked for two more now, Mr. Poppa. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u203	What's the result?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u204	The result is that Mr. Pappas is obsessed with the fact that he has brought some kind of revenue for the Greek State, and the reality is that since he went to the Ministry of Digital Policy, three and a half years later, we have seen no work in the Ministry of Digital Policy. Zero money has been absorbed by Community programmes. Zero money has fallen into the market. That's the reality. So I come to Mr. Crecho. Mr Secretary-General, I can also hear from my fellow Members 'we all have complaints', 'no one has ever answered our questions about ERT'. I will ask all the questions from the beginning tomorrow morning. And I call on colleagues if they want to. Let's give you an object, since the Minister has given you ERT's authority, you have something to answer. Because I don't like anyone to challenge me about the evidence and tell us here that we're lying, I'm going to file a timely question with the exact same dual object, to which you caused us: one viewing. Because with great interest I have received from the Minutes the information you have provided. Yeah, people watch football. I knew that before I came to the House, Mr. Crecho. I knew people were watching football. I knew that. And he does well and he sees soccer. But what does he see in the information zone this morning? We will discuss these in a timely question. We will also discuss the costs of external producers, and we will see whether the indicator is the average cost per minute of external production, not the total cost, whether it is all or not, and who has to say what about everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u205	Please finish, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u206	Mr Pappas, if you wish, even though the Rules of Procedure do not provide for this, let me ask you two to reply to the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u207	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u208	Well, it's okay. We'll take it. A Priori, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u209	You're gonna have to be two of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u210	Why? Do I need a second? I didn't bring a second. I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u211	Don't interrupt. Please finish, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u212	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. Mr Papapas, you said in your speech that two strategies conflict, one of ours for public television and one for your own. Indeed, Mr Pappa, two different strategies conflict. One is your strategy, which is to control, to truly take power - and the systemic media control is a party - and the second is our strategy, which is to make Greece a normal European country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. We are moving on with Mr Vorides, who too had exceeded time in protology. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. According to the government - but also according to SYRIZA - everything is well. This means that there are no conflicts here between two strategies, because two strategies would conflict if this were to happen: if, for example, there was a consensus that something is going wrong and someone is doing something to reorganise and reorganise them, we said how this reorganisation can be done. There too, we may have had two strategies to discuss whether this can be done in operation or whether it has to be done by interrupting, re-establishing another body. That would be a debate on the strategies. There are no two strategies here. Here is a conception, which is the government, and which is that everything goes wonderful, everything is wonderful, we don't have to change anything, the ERT is too cheap, it has an excellent program, it is amazing on the news show, there's no question, the people see it, and it's gone crazy and everywhere they're delirious when they see ERT and they say, "To God, don't change anything." This is the government's version. Who believes that? I'm guessing they won't either. But, in any case, that was what they supported. The second criticism relates to those who say - and here is the spectacular - that there is a body of statements from administrations appointed by you, which say 'collapsa', for'management', for 'bad management', for 'low quality'. Vorides doesn't say it. These are your people who call them. And if your people say so, this is where the next question arises: since they are actually all agreed to be a problem - and I will accept that it is a time-consuming problem, I will accept that it is also a problem faced by the Samaras Government, behind the Papandreou government, but also by other governments - do you have any explanation why any of these people with the will of reorganisation did not reorganise it in operation? Why didn't anyone do it? To get to know each other and to have a discussion of fundamentally wise people. Because look, the image you present is an abnormal picture, you and no one else have it. This is a conversation that accepts an evaluation of another type, where you can no longer agree on reality, someone is hallucinating, says everything goes perfectly, and everyone else tells him that this is not true. It must be your concern to assess the reality. Let us know that we see each other in mind, that we have our own perception. But that's what your people say. It's Friend, it's Nikos, it's all of them - a couple of twenty - who have made statements. It's a lot of people. It's not one and two. If it was one, we'd throw it at Phil, he didn't say it well. But when it is 20, we have to accept that there is one issue. The government answers: No, no, no, no, no, no. And they can see a ball! And the Capitol is a god, he said so well! And the other guy with the yogurt is better! And Akrivopoulou is the definition of pluralism! Is that her name? Preciselyvopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u215	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u216	It is the definition of pluralism, openness and openness! Question: The problem was, before the situation, problematic and before, problematic, and I am even going over it. But there is one permanent identity in the boxes: Calfayannis, the ruler, the regulator, who continues, is the institutional memory, is the historical identity, gives the ideological, political content. Him! So I ask a question: why couldn't anyone change it in operation? That's what you need to answer. Why didn't anyone change it when they wanted to? Why don't you change her in operation, which you might have thought of at first? I can't believe it. We're talking now! But you didn't make it. So that is where I come from and close, Mr President: after that, is there anyone who still disagrees with the decisions made at that time by Antony Samaras?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Panayotopoulos' dentology. Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. We have asked for specific answers to specific questions from the Foreign Ministers questioned, but we have not taken them. We have heard the reproach known, a well-known one that we have heard for the first time today: 'How do you forsake us, do you, when we gave football to the people?' He reminded me of Videla and Mundial 1978 in Argentina, the popular sports from the folklore government. But, of course, the fact that the football game - and not just - is gossiping that the money paid for television rights in some groups is too much, the price is too much, it is another matter. Of course, it is also the responsibility of other ministers. That's another conversation. But the reproach was how we dare question the administration that football gave to the people. The second and most expected reproach is: 'How dare we talk about the black in ERT?'. However, we have never claimed such a thing, nor has everyone who spoke and put themselves in a position, of course, in the leadership of the New Democracy. We never wanted the black in the ERT nor claim that we want it. But we want an ERT to be different from the one that works today and the way it works today. A completely different thing we want for public television. And we have called on you by using what has been said by ERT executives and, indeed, by important executives. We spoke about what the ERT Deputy Managing Director, the ERT Programme Manager, has said. They have spoken openly of gauging, maladministration, the dismantling of public money, of a trade union - to say so - informal administration, administration, which, of course, at the top has the President of POPERT, the inevitable Mr Calfayannis and the timeless one. That's what happened, and it's a heavy word and a public talk. Of course, they are words that require an answer from you, which has not been given. We've heard about a million viewers from the Zapping, because I don't know what evidence you find the one million viewers. As a friend of mine wrote to me right away in response to my phone, it's that from the Zaping it's probably going to come up with this number. In any case, if you have any other evidence, we are willing to see them. However, very little has been said about the burning issues. I'm hanging up with something extra. There's people out there who want ERT to shut down. We do not agree with him, but this world has been driven into this view and this deportation, because it feels that it pays without another option a product which is not worth the money it gives. And that's why he's protesting. We do not agree with that view. Clearly, however, we claim that the way ERT has to operate must be very different from the way in which you made it work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Panayotopoulos. Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u220	Mr Minister, other colleagues have said so, but I insist that you have not answered us. We didn't come here to tell us how nice your evaluations are to close them off by strangers. And we all know very well why they 'close them to you'. Anyone who delivered everything to the lenders would "close" the ratings. All that they asked for and did not take, the "superior", Macedonia, as they ask you, should come, whatever they ask you to do. We came here and specifically asked on the basis of an occasion that in recent times and the last two years - but now the phenomena have been intensified - they are leaving - you are sending them away - one - the people you appointed to the ERT. Thirteen people have left or "Go away" them! And I asked you in particular, and I haven't got an answer: were they incompetent, were they useless? Did you make bad choices? You cannot, Minister, go 13 people by denouncing and you come and tell us here about your evaluations and whether one was applied and whether the other was done! Here, on this issue! Otherwise this debate did not make sense, Mr President. We asked something specific, we brought the names one - one, we said what each one of those who left said. Gregory, you kicked him out yourself while he says you called him twice and asked him to come to ERT. And then you said he left for the proper operation of the ERT. And what is the proper functioning of the ERT, in which the Gregorios composer could not participate? You didn't answer us specifically because those thirteen people left. And they weren't anyone, they weren't even just members of the board of directors, but they were the president, CEO, information directors. There's no man left, mosquito! And, secondly, I told you that Mr. Calfayannis came in, went into the studio and pre-collected a journalist, and I asked you if the trade unionist was entitled to do that. You're not saying anything again! So what happens now? But we're going to ask you something and you're going to answer and you're going to think you've answered? We, Mr President, have not received an answer this afternoon. This must also be taken into account. Also, I want to say something and get it over with. I heard Mr Papachristopoulos, he came here as Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. I wonder, Mr President! The Parliamentary Representative in Parliament is the President's voice. And I see that Mr. Kammenos, despite the fact that Mr. Papachristopoulos has rightly disagreed with him on the issue of the Prespecies Agreement, he retains him in this post. This in parliamentary times has never been done! There is no case for a parliamentary representative to disagree with its President! We're in front of strange things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And, of course, where is the EUR 0.5 billion collected and said by Mr Papachristopoulos as a given one? Did he receive EUR 0.5 billion? Get us the evidence! If you took 0.5 billion euros from the channels, bring us the data here to see them, because you did not get EUR 0.5 billion. Is that right? I would also like to say this: Mr Papachristopoulos obviously finds everything good at the ERT, as he finds it all good in the Prespecies Agreement. However, this comedy cannot continue here, the Minister, one partner cannot answer what we are asking and the other partner can tell us 'other words to be loved' and disagree with his President, maintaining a post which, in parliamentary practice, is the only one for which no one is elected and is appointed, precisely because he has to agree with his President. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. Mr. Nikos Pappas, Minister for Digital Policy, has the floor for ten minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to begin by saying that in the parliamentary debate, it is not everything that matters, that is to say, what we are talking about actually. And I say this to the representative of the Centroon Association. Repeat boringly, no one sees ERT. This thing is just false and we also need to respect the time we consume here to hear from us by the Greek people, but also to respect our interlocutors in here. It's not all about styles, and that's what I think we should keep it in mind. Let me make two references to matters outside, which have been said and which I will come to the ERTs too quickly. Privacy expenditure: SYRIZA has opened the issue since 2011 and has opened it with a sense of great responsibility. And he has asked for measures that were not taken in 2017 only on our own government. So here, when criticising is being criticised, it has to be subjected to a measure. Golden Dawn spoke of prisons. I saw a few days ago a shocking video by criminal investigators about the murder of Paul Bryssa, and I sincerely hope that this trial will end very quickly and that those responsible will go to jail. I wish that humanity, and I want to say it from this forefront. I also heard a question if the particular gentleman who made a designation for Mr Mitsotakis in ERT continues to work. If the suggestion is to be fired, address it to some who can embrace such practices. We also criticised the issue of licensing and that no work has been done at the Ministry of Digital Policy. When we had the audiovisual law and voted for it, we heard it again here that it would never be implemented and where we would find the money. More than 20 productions have been approved for Greek television stations, and this radically changes the image of Greek television this year. I'm addressing the Greek viewer, the Greek viewer. This year is a multiple series of mythosiasm and they have been subsidized and we are glad to say so, because it is a sector in which Greece can also create and export a product and mobilise a potential that can really contribute to the overall recovery of the economy. And that's what you've been questioning. You said 'no money will be found, it will not work, where else it has been.' The best aid plan for producers has and works and we spend money. We already have public investment expenditure from the programme. So I think we have a new day on television here for which we are very happy. If you, Mrs Ahmakopoulou, believe that your party in the issue of licences has been justified, it is here that we say 'we put our hands up, I have nothing else to say'. But there is something I want to tell you manually in the heart and you need to take care of it. Stop releasing dictators. To have an acute and intense debate and welcome, but the talk about Videla, Pinochet and Georgia must be measured or, rather, not heard between us. That can't be what it sounds like. The most dangerous thing we have to do right now, where the seed of fascism has found people who are ready to cultivate it, is in our dialogue to relate dictatorships and, indeed, too barbaric. So don't do that. ERT: Operational plan. The recommendations from the Directors-General have already been reached. There is an emphasis on the operational plan to be made public in the coming days in new technologies and to improve both programmes and economic results, limiting operating costs, and internal procedures for monitoring and controlling the realisation of economic objectives. There will, of course, be special care and care for the utilization of ERT property. New organogram: I think it's a section that didn't happen. It's done in operation. That's because Mr. Voridis said something if ERT could change in operation. The logic is to unify the instruments. We had radios where there was an address for radios in the region, other radios were in the Program Directorate and other radios were in the Information Directorate, and there is the Directorate-General for Radio, as they do throughout the organization, there is the Single Newsroom. Any organisation that is active on both television and radio and on the Internet will consolidate these functions and changes in operation have taken place. It is not true that there has been a pogrom against executives. All the directors-general remained, except one who resigned. Don't say things around here that don't apply. I think there are conditions for this to be debated very calmly. Listen: with regard to complaints, parliamentary control here cannot be carried out to answer suspicions. If there is anything specific, we will not be the first to answer, but we will be the first to run, and we will give everything to be cleared. In suspicion and insinuation here, we don't have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u223	We don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u224	And I'd say that you could...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u225	They're not implied. He sent you a letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u226	Mrs. Vulture, I want to ask you something by hand in the heart. Is there a speaker you haven't tried to interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u227	But what clever is that now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u228	I'm really saying it and I'm sorry. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u229	Anyway, I'm waiting for you to tell me why you kicked them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u230	We didn't kick anyone out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u231	But don't engage in dialogue. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u232	We didn't kick anyone out. As for the other type of resignations, so that we do not even forget what was happening, people quit because they said "I was called not to show Tsipras' speech in Thessaloniki".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u233	That's what they said, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u234	Isn't that right? Do not now set up the resignations and complaints, which you were supposed to have had a supervisory board.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u235	That's never happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u236	Well, it never happened. I say what he said. And you also quote numbers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u237	But that's not how it's done. Let's keep going. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. In 2013, then, public TV/NERIT had 64.2% government projection to know what we're saying. Budget. I want to remind you of this. When ERT reopened, ERT was unable to obtain tax information because there had not been a census and an economic data report. Do you know what that means? He couldn't collect a reward fee. It's all good, it's all blooming, really. You really left it very nice. So, now, the company is healthy, there are very specific rules and transparency in how the funds are channelled and there are rules of procedure and for mixed productions, which, as the State Secretary said, have much lower costs than the mixed productions that were in other times. Again, I call for the criticism to be made to be done, because you can also ask Mr Mitsotakis' close colleagues about what the cost of the joint producers was and compare it with what it is now. I do not want to go forward right now, but we do not want to be provocative. We welcome the dialogue at all levels, but we will not be tempted to insult either person or anyone. But I think we will talk about the substance here. Finally, ERT also overcome internal weaknesses and external pressures, because it is clear that in order to fail five competitions in the ERT's attempt to acquire its own network of antennas, there were also external and internal pressures. And at the moment the successful tender has passed through the Court of Auditors and very soon the ERT network will be developed and will cover the whole territory. There are therefore very specific steps to be taken. I think we have also answered what it can offer at the level of new technologies and how, indeed, this has been embraced by the world. I think the debate is very useful. Unfortunately, the New Democracy has not drawn any political conclusions from the turn that has taken place since the coup attempt to close public television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The reason for five minutes is the Deputy Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information and Liberty Crets for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u240	Mrs. Asimakopoulou, I don't know what questions you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u241	Mr. President, speak. That's the parliamentary procedure! We're not having a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u242	I'm sorry for my inexperience. Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u243	The parliamentary procedure is to address the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u244	Good, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u245	Allow my inexperience. It's the first time I've been talking. Don't be so strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u246	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u247	Yes, Mr. Undersecretary. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u248	What I wanted to say to the New Democracy, however, is that in the questions - I think this is the procedure for scrutiny - the Minister responsible should answer in writing. And if he doesn't answer in writing, he gives the right to ask for a debate in the House. He is obliged after the Minister has come. So whatever you have unanswered, he's coming to the House. You have a post-traumatic stress, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, with television licenses. Each licence is 35 million. We were right in the number. We're the only government that's guaranteed frequencies since 2006. We did not leave what Mrs Vulture left in her drawers with the frequency charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u249	Don't say that again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u250	Of course I'll say it again, Mrs. Vulture. From 2011 to 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u251	You don't have immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u252	Don't interrupt, though, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u253	That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u254	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u255	No, it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u256	He's denounced me as an intertwined person.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u257	Here, what did you say? Who's complaining to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u258	What drawers did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u259	The fee for the use of frequencies 2011-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u260	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u261	Anyway. What I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u262	There's nothing in my drawers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u263	Do you want to go on with it? Does my time count?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u264	Mrs. Vulge...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u265	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u266	No, I won't! You must withdraw to the Greek people because you did not do your job properly!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Undersecretary, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u268	Because you had time to close the ERT, but you didn't have time to charge the frequency fee...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u269	There's nothing you're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u270	...which was also justified by the S.T.E. He was also entitled by S.H.E.- Oh, my God! Talk about the S.T.E. Now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u271	Mrs. Vulture, you don't sound!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u272	According to the beam and ad hoc! I also want to testify in the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u273	Minister, wait a minute. Don't go on. Whatever you want, Mrs. Vulture, Mr. Dendia who will then take the floor and continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u274	No, no! It's on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u275	When Mr. Cretsos is finished, I'll give you the floor on staff. Carry on, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u276	I insist again, the evidence we've submitted for the show is not one of our heads. It is 'NIELSEN'. If you think that 'NIELSEN', this global colossus in the measurement of viewing, does not do its job well, you can say it. You refer to the special question that staff are sufficient. I am presenting in the Minutes the number of ERT workers, in proportion to other public broadcasting. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Eleftherios Kretsos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In the design of the NERIT, you forecast news reports and 40% news update and reached 62%. This is about pluralism. We, respectively, are around 34% and ERT entertainment is 56%, while NERIT was only 16.3%. Last week I mentioned the valuable contribution of the ERT. You're talking about statements. We had this shipwreck, this revolt, this triumph, in essence, how the previous government handled the matter of the supervisory board, which was supposed to talk about pluralism and to facilitate the shielding of public television by any influence from the government and the first you did was a PSF. You are not able to apply the laws themselves. This is our difference, that we are doing our political will and television licences are a very good example of this. Because I hear about statements and statements, I have here Mr Moronis's statements, Mr Zoula's letter and all these complaints. I'm filing them in the Minutes too. This is Mr Moronis, Vice-President of the PSE, etc. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Eleftherios Kretsos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When we talk about the costs of ERT and the costs of black, this will be determined by the new committee and will include various costs. I will tell you a few things: the payment of compensation for the dismissal of the company's personnel, the costs of operating the IM's piracy scheme, the cost of special management for the period from 1/12/2015 until today, the cost of the due property rents of the abolished ERT, the cost of using radio frequencies for transmitters who were occupied, the costs of the ERT's dismantled requirements from customers and checks that have not been collected, what actions have been brought by former employees against the Greek State for the day-to-day work, overtime, overworking, the net position of the special management until 30 March 2008, the net inputs lost. You went and closed a big company, perhaps the largest company of the Greek State - which, unfortunately, the previous ones from you in 2009 made it a TECH - in one night, you brought a huge trauma. I already told you that it cost at least 60% in television terms. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] My time is over, I'm sorry for my inexperience. I'm gonna stop here, unfortunately. I just want to say: don't pretend to be the baby virgins with the ERT. Your crime and fingerprint, you've left it too deep.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u277	Thank you. Mrs. Vulture, you have the floor on staff for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u278	Mr. President, Mr. Cretso said I had something in my drawers. In my drawers, I had nothing. And because this is an expression that is defamation, I asked him to get it back. He didn't. He knows very well that in my drawers there was nothing. If I had to - I don't do these things - Mr. Crecho, go to court, could you prove that I had something in my drawer, as you said? You couldn't. It's a piece of paper that you walk around, Mr. Pappa, from the beginning and you give it from here and there. It is a draft decision, which may have been made and then of course. There's no signature for me and there's no place I asked for anything. You're only saying that to discredit me. I don't care about that, because people know what we're talking about. If an official at the General Secretariat is currently building something on his computer and writing a draft decision, will he be able to safely invoke that you have ordered this? Can you prove such things in court? Because here we can't throw mud like that in the world. Think, if you're in front of a court and show a paper, they'll tell you: “When did this happen? Where's the protocol number? How does this appear to have arrived at the Minister?" None of this is there, just throwing mud. You're smashing suspicions, and everyone knows exactly what's happened. As for Mr. Zoula and Mr. Moronis, neither could they prove in court what they said and that is the critical size. I was just avoiding such tensions. It's good not to invoke them, because you remind me of them and maybe some people need to prove things in court, and then we'll laugh too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u279	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for a minute for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u280	Ma'am, threats to a court don't make them. Go ahead. It was your obligation as political authority to charge the end of the use of frequencies. The difference is we did it. You don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u281	No, that's all you're saying now. You said I kept in my drawers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u282	My drawers were found. He had come to you from the Media Supervision Department. We've been through the same ministry and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u283	Mr. President, do you see that it's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u284	It concerns the period 2011 to 2014 in which Ms. Vultesis was hunted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u285	Very good, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u286	Mr. President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u287	It's closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u288	He says he was found in my drawers. I say in this House that Mr Papapas and Mr Cretsosh have found nothing in my drawers and cannot prove - because it is not true, so they cannot - that someone has brought me some paper and I have not signed it. Imagine - I'm telling you - how many papers tomorrow they might tell you that they brought you, for example, the address. Should we go to court and see how he can prove it? What address? What directors of all of them? The ones you took out and made them managers, and they're not employees at the secretariat?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u289	All right, Mrs. Vulture. We're stopping here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u290	Let me reply, Mr President, for a minute. The managers who were obliged to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u291	Bring them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u292	But it wasn't from us. You've appointed them, Mrs. Vultus.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u293	Who's that? Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u294	Don't go to the nomenclature.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u295	Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u296	See what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u297	Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u298	You have a problem with the civil servants. You have a problem with the public. You're targeting people. Don't threaten with courts. The point is that you left your term of office, without charging the fees for the use of frequencies for private television stations, but in time to open the pirate form of public television and NERITT. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u299	You said the principal told you something. Say his name. What director is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u300	That's good. It's closed. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative who asked the question, Mr Deedias, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, thank you. Mr President, three different issues have been raised here. The first, which you have attempted, is about the events of the previous government of 2012-2014. I do not think that is the subject of today's debate. There were two elections. The Greek society - I said before - did not reward the views of the government at the time. Our boss is the Greek people. That's what happened. We do not discuss this today, we do not discuss what happened then. We are discussing what you are doing, and indeed we are discussing what you people are doing on a specific point, and that is what you are calling on you to answer. And here, really, there are two strange discrepancies. He said the Minister should discuss the facts and facts. There is no objection to that, Minister. Of course it is, but here we have two divergent realities. We have our reality, which says a lot that you are trying to turn the public broadcaster into a party propaganda tool, and there is your perception that everything is fine and we are unreasonable. Of course, however, I must say that, in your perception, it also emphases the incredible - which I do not know if you said it intentionally or missed - that the government and the ruling party are entitled to other time ratios and that the existing ratio of 61%, that is, you and 14%, is reasonable. If this is your perception of things, then really very few things we have to say about all of this. What we have to do from there and beyond as a Qualified Opposition is to ensure that we do not allow you to turn the public television broadcaster into a propaganda body. And I have to tell you that pretty much your days are counted. You know that. Whatever, we've been talking for weeks, have we been talking for a few months? - That's it. Therefore, I understand that your efforts will increase, but I foresee you and I foresee the absolute vanity of the project. It's time, it's eemar, in the ancient Greek phrase. So I'd say these for 61% and 14%, because it's good to prepare for your role in Anti-Population not to tell them not to write in the Minutes, because another party perhaps less noble and less loyal to the wider concept of pluralism from the New Democracy 'will get it', and then tells you that 14% is falling too much. Next year 9% will give you 5%, 4%, if you are a Civic Opposition, if you succeed, namely, for a long time in this role, because we have seen in that country very strong parties that have risen and come. But we, Ministers, are the ones who sit on these benches and represent the party of Constantine Karamanlis, and that is not what we fear. We went through all the forks and we're still here, big and powerful, with 12% in front of the polls. I would like to tell you something else by ending, which is also extremely serious. I was surprised - and I am referring above all to the Minister, Mr Pappas, because the State Secretary would obviously not get into such waters, it would not be understood - your absolute silence on the government issue. You have two of your top ministers who interact with strong expressions and do that no one in the Chamber has addressed you on this matter, as if there is no one who represents the government in this Chamber, to have no obligation to speak to the National Representation. I understand that this is not an easy matter, but something has also been said to you, which is extremely serious, that this is not a matter or at all an issue between us, an issue of internal order which we can discuss here and - if you like - and with any inconsistency and any unavoidable solutions to this in the context of the national area. It is a matter of the international community, and your own government manages to grasp the country internationally. Why don't you tell me that it's common - and I told you in my prototype - two top ministers of a government are mutually mutual and one is telling each other 'you' or what he said, we don't know about it, we weren't there, and the other says that 'I'm blackmailing'. All these things the last one you can say is common and yet you told us stuff here, lots, loudspeaking, tearing, but not a single word about the tanker. You didn't feel the need to justify anything. I am therefore obliged to bring this back to you, and to tell you that the opposition will not allow you, will it not allow a government to manage national issues in any way it judges - in disagreement with the opposition? Disputing with the Opposition. But he has no right to make a fool of the country. It has no right, to allow two first-class ministers to interact on a national basis in this way and to give the impression that the Hellenic Republic is completely unreliable to the 'double' technique. You can't do these things. So I ask you again to reply to us, what happened at the Ministerial Council, who said what, who said it, and why the Prime Minister of the country does not give public access to Mr Kotzia's resignation letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Minister, you have the floor to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr President. I'll only need two minutes. Look at you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, as to whether the days of this government are counted, I would like to remind you that you are counting a thousand days for election. So I think as to how many you have to measure up to the next elections, which will take place in September 2019, you will count for another four years, and here we will be and see it. We've heard a lot. I do not understand what the New Democracy understood was wrong with its policy, because it was said by one another and others in this Chamber. We have heard from members of the New Democracy - let us say - that ERT should not say news. We have heard from New Democracy officials questioning the constitutionally guaranteed right to 'constitutional' and starting and ending with the problems of the union of ERT workers. I must admit that I do not understand this approach. Nobody said there were no problems. Obviously, they exist, but I will repeat emphatically. The ERT since it opened is at its best moment and will continue to take the positive steps. I told you that when he opened up, he couldn't get tax information and collect a reward fee, he had discredited structures. Every day he passes he fights and every day a battle wins!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u304	Thank you very much, Minister. The debate on the number 3/3/9-10-2018 topical question regarding the repeated and serious complaints about the administration and operation of ERT SA is hereby concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-10-22-S1-commons.u305	With the agreement of the House at 21.50 minutes the sitting will be closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 23 October 2018 at 13.30 seconds on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
