ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Two questions will be answered by the Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Drasakis. First we will discuss the second question by No 1543/24-2018 of the Greek Parliamentary I of Athens, New Democracy, Mrs Theodoras Bakoyannis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: 'Great failure of the extrajudicial compromise'. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor for two minutes for her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u3	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, Minister. To express my pleasure because after a year, the government comes to answer our question. After that, I will not remind you of the election promises of seismicism, but I shall refer directly to the bill. You brought a bill two years late, promising that you would give financial breath to the debtors. From the outset, the New Democracy had shown you the inadequacy of the law, which, with its innumerable bureaucratic provisions, became a judicial and not a compromise, leading, in the end, all the businesses in the courts. Unfortunately, we've been confirmed. According to the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat, until March, the application procedure has been initiated by twenty-nine thousand three hundred seventy-five companies. Of these, only ten thousand three hundred fifty two have covered the first steps. Finally, seven hundred sixty-four applications have been submitted definitively. Mr. Papadimitriou had told us about three hundred thousand. Of these thousands of businesses, only twenty - three managed to regulate their debts. It is actually confirmed that this is an extremely time-consuming process. Even the Special Secretary for the Management of Private Debt, Mr. Fotis Kourmossisis, who makes a sincere effort, from what I am learning, and who you finally left himself with three employees, described the torture procedure. The New Democracy, from the outset, had opposed an automated and truly out-of-court procedure. It was not by chance that we decided to vote against the bill, which, instead of solving problems, eventually creates new ones. Firstly, Mr Minister, a great deal of excuse is required. Secondly, if there is no unanimity on the part of creditors, justice is necessarily brought to justice. And thirdly, the procedure extends to all kinds of debts and until all these debts are confirmed, it takes months. Minister, on 20 April you published a notice on the staff of the relevant Special Secretariat. So far, this secretariat, one year after the bill was passed, has neither staff nor can function. So I ask you: do you realize the seriousness of the situation? Do you realize that these businesses have kneeled? Do you realise that something needs to be done and this must be done very quickly, so that these entrepreneurs can have one hope, that they can re-enter the economic process?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much Mrs Bakoyannis. The Minister has the floor for his answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Bakoyannis, your rhetoric is at the edge of the challenge.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u6	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u7	However, I am sure that, in substance, we can come to an agreement. Your question ignores the root of the problem and the development of the problem. It's a question, as if it came from heaven. We are not yet in the out-of-court review phase. We're in the application and improvement phase. The problem we have is huge. It is the accumulated stock of red loans, non-performing loans. This problem has been gradually created since 2009 and until the present government came, nothing has been done to deal with it. Some steps taken by Mr. Treasury were incomplete. Only three cases were settled by the law Treasury. For reasons of better understanding, and because the problem is huge, and after leaving the memoranda it will be a key priority, I will submit for the Minutes some figures, for you too, which show exactly that in 2008 the non-performing loans were EUR 13.6 billion and in 2014 they had reached EUR 78.5 billion, with a constant increase. Today it has fallen to 65.9 billion, that is, we have a reduction of 12.5 billion. We are on a positive path, but we are still far from the goal of reducing red loans. I'll avoid the other evidence. I submit the relevant documents for the Minutes to anyone interested. [[At this point the Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The evidence shows the accumulation of the problem and its gradual decline, but, as I said, we must continue efforts. This positive shift is due to the stabilization of the economy, to the fact that unemployment and the policy measures that we have taken are beginning to decline. So, as far as the past is concerned, before the crisis, we had an unreasonable grant of loans, a regime of bank immunity. As a parliamentarian at that time, I had the negative experience of denouncing the whole situation, but nothing was done. Then we had the inertia of both the governments and the banks, because the banks, Mrs Bakoyannis, have a responsibility on this issue, and the ineffectiveness of the measures taken. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need a few minutes to finish. Now, our policy is an integrated institutional framework, in which the extrajudicial settlement is an important part, as is the creation of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. And I am pleased that your position gives rise to support from both the Secretariat and the need to staff it etc. The evidence from the course so far has been given by you. Thirty thousand people have entered the system. It's on the way, in various stages, a number of important ones. Indeed, only twenty - three or twenty - six cases have passed. There'll be more. What do we do now? By evaluating the results, we are trying to make improvements, simplify the system. He is already ready to sign a joint ministerial decision by the Minister of Economy and Development and the Minister of Finance. I will testify to it for the Minutes, so that you can have an image of the improvements that we bring up to formal integration. It is another set of changes that we are discussing with the institutions - which is why my answer will be temporary today, that is, we will come back later, when they are finalised - so that we hope that in the new phase we will have a faster deal with cases. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point the Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] For example, this joint ministerial decision abolishes most of the documents - about nine or ten documents can be automatically recovered - while some other documents can be provided by the person concerned, i.e. after entering the system and the cases have been 'run'. Finally, I think that, in order for the procedure to begin, three of the twenty-two documents are enough. But that's just the one factor. The other is that creditors, who are many - banks many, public and funds, in many cases - must understand that this tool must themselves be used to achieve the desired result. Therefore, as I said, it is a conquest that we have this institutional tool of the extra-judicial settlement, because it responds to a need. There are problems with its implementation and we are here, just to discuss these problems and find ways of facilitating them. But don't get tempted to think it's simple and turning the switch, we'll solve the problem. In my dentistry, I will have the opportunity to explain a little further what I have already said, that in order for the institution to function properly, government, ministries - all involved - banks and other creditors, who may be involved in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u9	Now I do not want to be provocative, Minister, but the reality is that, when we voted for this law, we told you that these twenty-eight cards, which need to be gathered, will lead to huge delays. In any case, I am pleased that you have reduced the documents they will need. But the problem is not there, Minister. The problem is there too - I will agree with you - but the law must be changed. This law creates major problems at the moment and you should bring about a change in the law, so that we can reach a serious extrajudicial compromise. We have tabled a proposal to you, but before I go to the proposal, I would like you to do me a favor of going to building 7 for you to see what happens in the courts, see people who only get to be destroyed because there are these delays. At the same time, Minister, you will probably understand, because it was impossible to reach agreement with the Minister - EUR 10,000 too much to give a small debtor, so that a procedure could be initiated to enter the law. The New Democracy has tabled a proposal and I would ask you to sit down and see it. Firstly, to concentrate the use of small companies and free traders with a turnover of up to 2 million, because it is the weak ones who do not have a negotiating power towards creditors. Secondly, to make use of the existing platform, as you said, as a point of collecting liabilities to banks, public and insurance funds, without the participation of suppliers, Minister. On the basis of the evidence that the largest in value of a regulation credit proposal is shaped and that it follows a short negotiation and the formulation of counter-proposals that will be put to the vote. If this proposal is adopted by a majority, it should apply without judicial ratification and the right of opposition only to the non-consensual. This will result in far fewer businesses which will end up in the courts and will not be affected by other creditors. And thirdly, reasonable liability protection should be provided to the participants in the regulation process, both by the banks and by the public. As long as the rift breaks the prosecution, due to the restructuring of debts, no one will take responsibility. This will be an operational mechanism in our view that will help viable businesses to re-establish standing, free of debt-free. Minister, yesterday GSEVE announced that eighty-eight companies face a direct risk of debt seizures. It is clear that they are discouraged in the current legislative framework. I would invite you to sit down happy to see another legislative framework, which will allow these businesses not to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mrs Bakoyannis. The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u11	Mrs. Bakoyannis, I note that you didn't say anything about the banks either. Obviously, you think they have no responsibility. I'm glad. Now, the world is not being destroyed because there is the extrajudicial settlement, the world is being destroyed, because for years the extrajudicial settlement has not been institutionalised. The world is destroyed because it lived with the first and second memorials an unprecedented worldwide destruction of the country's productive tissue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u12	I said it about the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u13	In the third memorandum, yes, the situation began to stabilise, and with the return of deposits that have already begun and the measures taken and - we hope - the outcome of the stress tests can be said to be able to regain its ability to finance the economy. I really cannot hide my surprise because I remember last year - Mr Mitsotakis, the Head of the New Democracy - agreed with what I am constantly saying, that it is not reasonable and it is not moral and it is not fair for some to ask for regulations from the banking system in the country and at the same time to have their statements abroad. So while Mr Mitsotakis also thought it was of the opinion that these statements should come to Greece, if that is true what was moved - it is from videos of his previous presence in BSE - he allegedly said that corporate statements, which are still abroad, should be returned to our homeland when there is proper political stability. So, the Chief of New Democracy tells Greek businessmen to leave their money abroad and more? So he's legalizing this parasitic practice? I want to believe that this is a mistake, I want to believe that all the political forces are opposed to such practices. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point the Vice-President of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So I come back to say that internationally this institution of the extrajudicial settlement has difficulties. We're in a relatively better position. The difficulty is that, in order to regulate - and this is the importance of the institution - all creditors must be involved, because the problem we are going to solve is this: if the bank regulates debts to a debtor, but the tax office is after him, the funds are after him, this businessman will not be able to get back into a reset and be able to serve the rest of his loans. That is the difficulty, and that is why I also insist on the banks. We've talked about it. They have recognised at administrative level that there is indeed a matter. I have also asked the banks to make quantitative commitments, to say that the next quarter will see to it that a hundred or two or five hundred cases are handled. They are not yet in a position to do this, but they are in a position and have promised that they will act and do not leave the cases in their luck to the branches so that a number of cases can be handled - so let's say - 'from above', so that they can be facilitated. Thirdly, what you said. Of course, there are other measures than what you mentioned in the joint ministerial decision. There are other matters relating to the law, for example that there was no provision for the pay of coordinators. These and other issues are being discussed. As I said, I am not ready today to announce specific regulations because they are in the context of the fourth assessment, but we will soon have, I think, improvements on these issues. Finally, Mrs Bakoyannis, I would like you to be a little more fair with the previous Minister. I was reading the minutes in committee and you had a constructive attitude - I recognise it - but you said that this famous platform would not take place in three months, but if it is done in three months, you will recognize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u14	Hey, it didn't happen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u15	The platform took place in three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u16	It's done in eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u17	The platform took place in three months. It was a success of both the services and the public workers, because it was done in house, it was done through the services of the Ministry and the project is huge. So I'm gonna close up with what I started. We have an institution, it has problems, but we are here to improve it, and with what I have said and with what I have heard from you, which we will study, I believe next time we will have a more positive account in a field which I repeat - ask your colleagues - that in all countries there is great difficulty. But we will insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I can give a small answer, why did he refer to the President of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u19	Mrs Bakoyannis, it is very important that you take the floor for thirty seconds. Mrs Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u20	It is simply, Minister, that you, too, realise that there are problems, that we still have capital controls in Greece. So don't pretend that the third memorial left things. We still have Capital Controls and it makes sense that some companies want to make the management of their money in the transition period in a easier way. The fact that the New Democracy has called on everyone to return their money to Greece you know, and in any case, our credibility has not been questioned by anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, an answer as a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u24	The third memorandum was a memorandum. It's not what we wanted to have, it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u25	While we wanted to have the others?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u26	...but as a memorandum, I think, he noted the transition of the country from the recession to the recovery. Second, there's a lot of business...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u27	The development, Minister, that we haven't achieved any objectives?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Bakoyannis, let Mr. Drasakis finish, so we can move on to the next questions. Colleagues are also waiting. It is a hot issue, we understand it, but we can move on to the next questions as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u29	The Greek economy has passed from the deep recession to stabilisation and from stabilization to recovery. The whole world knows that. That this recovery is not immediately expressed in the pockets of the world is what we politicians need to see. I am going back to what I wanted to say, because that is serious. If what you said here is the position of the New Democracy, I'm glad. I'm the Minister of Development, we want investment, we want money to come to Greece we want. It wasn't what the Chief of New Democracy said. Secondly, there are companies that export, there are companies that earn money abroad. We are not talking about this, we are not talking about necessary liquidity to be held in external accounts. We are talking about those who have produced or produced profits in Greece that make them abroad. And to them, then, we say that this country needs a responsible entrepreneurship, which means reinvesting profits or at least part of profits. So it's a serious matter. It is not linked to capital controls. You saw how I said it. If it's the exact statement, it's wrong, it's irresponsible. If the statement is inaccurate and what you have told us is true, I have no reason to welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2015/2366/EU on payment services and other provisions’. I also have the honour to announce to the House the news sheet on Monday 30 April 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1545/24-2018 topical question of the Member of the Republic of Attica, Mr Athanasios Bourras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An increase in the wage values of the simple use of hayalou". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1537/23-44-2018 topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The self-defense following an attack inside the house". 3. The 1521/17-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hatzisavvas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on 'Two meters and two weights'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1546/24-2018 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Revelations on CEDEFOP that expose the head of the Ministry of Health". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1550/24-2018 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The need for an initiative to strengthen anti-criminal policy following the recent multiple phenomena of violent crime in residentials and the lifting of the unfair nature of the acts of victims' reaction". 3. The 1538/23-44-2018 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to increase military service". 4. The 1539/23-44-2018 topical question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "About the participation of military teams on a party course of the JRC". 5. The 1517-17-4-2018 topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restoration of problems in the operating rooms of the new wing of the Chios Hospital". 6. The 1518-17-2018 topical question by H' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the problems of four million borrowers. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1511/16-2018 topical question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Summary of patients from the EKAB to private clinic Intensive Clinics Units". 8. Under number 1369/20-3-2018, a topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adoni Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Ministry of Finance observes the contract with the investment bank of Rothschild". Subsequent to the question 4126/217/3-2018 question and application for the submission of documents by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the public contribution to cover part of the debt of natural persons borrowing housing loans and the need to extend the contribution to the guarantors as well. It is also a serious matter. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the following point: In time, it has been found that the banks and in the period of prosperity have asked for guarantees beyond the guarantees emblems and a guarantor. Usually the guarantor was a relative, a friend, a neighbor, who didn't know the consequences and had a signature. The legislation that followed, however, when the problem of loans began, whether housing or business, did not receive any provision for protecting these people. Did he consider them rich? Did he automatically consider them obliged? I don't know. So, then, we find that with Law 3869, the well-known 'Katsellis', the exception of all the legal education we all have, all of the legal culture, in Article 12, that if anyone is still subject to the law and has the benefits of the law, the guarantor is not benefiting, while the basic principle, Mr Minister, as you know, is that the amount of the guarantor's debt is determined from the amount of the first-time debt. The Government has received some relevant provision to cover part of the payment of those who had been subject to Katseli in the State's contribution, if they had not been able to respond to the amount laid down by the court. However, as far as the guarantors are concerned, this has no impact, because the entire amount of the debt is maintained, and the validity of the judicial decision - of the benefit will be extended - to the guarantors and, in addition, the guarantor called on by the bank usually has an insurance policy - even though no attachment has yet been given, a mortgage - has a home, a shop, a property. This property is currently being jeopardised and appealed to many guarantors and Katselis, and several of them fall under Katselis, but they do not have the right to address the public, Minister, and to ask for the public's contribution to the payment of the instalments laid down by the court. So this is the subject of my question: If the guarantor is subject to the Katseli Act, he may, under the conditions which the primary debtor has, ask for public participation in order to cover part of his debt in order to save the asset he has. Because, without full information - I think the Minister will give it to us - there is a sum of EUR 100 million every year in the budget...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u32	Fifty million is, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u33	I read that it's 100 million in a decision. I don't know. You answer me. There is, therefore, a allocation of EUR 100 million. I do not know the percentage allocated per year. If not exhausted, make available for guarantors. But if there is a possibility of increasing the budget, we should also cover the guarantors, because they are now the wrongful generation. It's the wrong generation, and I'll say that again, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Carras. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Carras, I'm glad that your questions are always specific. I'll try to be specific, too. The answer I got from the services is that the guarantors are also covered. When the guarantor submits a separate application to the Act Katseli - Stathakis, he is treated as an independent debtor, in that his debts, i.e. both those resulting from his guarantee in favour of the first debtor and any individual debts, are regulated exclusively on his face, regardless of whether they have been regulated in respect of the person of the first debtor. Therefore, the guarantor in favour of whom a court ruling has been issued by the Katseli - Stathaki Act may claim as an independent debtor the public contribution to the monthly instalments of the draft debt settlement for the rescue of his principal residence, as established in Article 3 of the HSH 130377. That's the answer I got from the agency. I therefore express the political will that we agree that the guarantor should also be covered. If there is any difficulty, see whether he wants interpretation or supplementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u36	He wants a supplement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u37	My partners are here and they heard about it. They will see it later and we can reach an agreement outside the procedure. However, I would like to take the opportunity of asking you to give a picture here too, because things are a little similar to the previous question. In other words, we have an institutional regulation which has not yet been fully exploited to the extent that it should be. The applications submitted are very few, so the money is there, without being exploited. I would like to say what is the importance of this measure. The importance arises from the fact that we have had this huge change of circumstances. Someone had taken his loan, counting on his job, had his salary, his dividends, his prospect. Suddenly the circumstances changed, his business closed, he can't serve the loan. This is an unprecedented situation, in the dimension we have had and we have it in our country. It happens once every half century. That is why an arsenal was needed from the outset, which had not existed and which we gradually create. The debtors can be classified into three groups: the first group is the ones they have, they do not pay. They're trying to avoid it. They are the ones called 'conscious' or'strategic poor payers' and that is a matter of public interest to identify them. The second group is the ones who want to pay and possibly they can, but not the entire obligation. That is why there is the Code of Conduct and what the law provides for, that we are examining the current possibility of payment which each debtor has. If its dose is so high that it cannot live, its dose may be reduced. There is also a third group, which cannot pay the reduced dose, because the debtor and his wife have been unemployed, perhaps because he has been completely destroyed, etc. This third category is what we are most interested in, precisely because there is no way out, and that is why it was a success that we achieved this arrangement because it was a negotiating product. But here, unfortunately, we have problems which prevent its implementation. We are studying these problems - and that is why I thanked you for your question - and we are moving on to two changes, which we hope will improve the outcome. First of all, until now, for someone to enter this process, his assets had to be established and it was made manual. We have now contacted, in cooperation with the HICP, a public body, to create an electronic platform here and here, so that this process can be automatic. The second thing we hope will help is that there may also be issues of non-information, as is well known. So we say to give the bank the right, which knows the client, he knows that he can't pay, he can also take the initiative and ask for the debtor to join the law. I think that could help. The third is what you have to see, so that the guarantor can also be covered. With these three measures we therefore hope for a more positive result, precisely because, as I said, the problem for those who have it is dramatic. It is good that we have achieved this arrangement. There is money in the budget, so we will move in that direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u39	I must say this, Mr President, that I am pleased first of all with the Minister's reply. It expresses an intent. We must, of course, stand up to the question of information, because I know that - I know - that those who would have the opportunity to request public contributions have no information. A way has to be found, Minister, to extend knowledge, to notify the measure. Secondly, I will disagree with your decision 130377/2015, where the agency informs you that it also concerns the guarantors. From the wording itself of the decision, as it is, it is clear that it concerns first-time borrowers. And where do I support this? I support it in that on the eligibility criteria, as the decision itself says, it must be shown that this property serves as the principal residence of the person subject to the Katseli law. For the main residence is the primary debitant gives the property security. The guarantor has not yet been called to grant the security attorney. He'll be called when he comes under the Katseli Act, so he'll submit his assets, and that's where the bank will know that he can impose weight. I therefore request, Minister, that the decision be amended so that, on the one hand, it becomes clear, on the other hand, that the measure be extended so that it is known to the interested parties that they are entitled to it. You said that very little money has been given. I have to answer that this is evidently due, in my view, to the fact that people do not know, because they would gladly have rushed to make a request, to contribute the public to their debt, to alleviate them. And on the occasion that you have given a more general answer, Minister, I would like to say that, in fact, the guarantors have not only been wronged by the Katselis Act, to which you have to deal with the amendment of Article 12 as well. We must return to the normal rule, what the first debtor owes, and we must not have a primary debtor regulation, and the guarantor must be called upon to pay the difference, which the principal debt is reduced - the President who deals with it economically knows it - to knock on the guarantor's door for the difference. Secondly, we need to relieve small guarantors - as a more general idea, I say this - of the extrajudicial mechanism, because you know, Minister, that not many come to the extrajudicial mechanism because they have to bring the guarantor along with them. The guarantor usually refuses and therefore, a method of failure or the possibility of failure of the extrajudicial mechanism, especially to the small debtors, is the refusal of the guarantor to participate. I say this in relation to what has been discussed before. And the third - and most importantly - is that I will insist - and I have asked your predecessor about this, I have to say that I have not received a substantial answer, but it is not at present this comment - that the extension of the validity of the judicial decision on the protagonist should be legislated in any procedure to the guarantor. In civil law, you all know that when the debt of the first debtor is reduced, the guarantor is also reduced. This is not the case here in bank loans, and it is something you understand that the country's legal culture is also insulting him. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much Mr. Carras. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u41	All I would like to add is that what I said in my prototype is not just political intentions, but also actions that we have already taken. First of all, I would like to explain the procedure because it may not be understood or known to everyone. What we are talking about is whether the court has been convicted at a dose of EUR 100 a month - it is considered little - but it cannot even give these 100 euros, that the public can, under certain conditions and criteria, cover if not the EUR 100, EUR 90. That is the importance of the measure. So the first is to speed up the trial, because if there is no court decision, it cannot be activated. Here too, some measures are being taken to achieve this. The second is that the electronic platform has already been ordered and is already made. And the third is what we said about the banks. We'll see. I do not remember whether it requires any legislative or other regulation or whether it can be ad hoc. Within the next few days, we have a meeting with the Ministry of Development to discuss these measures with the banks. We are therefore talking about a package of measures which are already in progress, because I repeat that the government - and let me the term - is more urgent for this possibility to be activated. As far as the guarantors are concerned, we take them into account. I am not a legal person, but I undertake to see it and to inform you - perhaps even informally - of what exactly is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much Mr. Drasakis. We move to the third with No. 1520-17-2018 top-level question of the first cycle of the Achaea MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Serious concern in Achaia about measures to deal with the meadow effect in the Patraikos Gulf". The Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy will answer Mr Socrates Famelos. Please, Mr Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in view of the summer season, there is a growing concern among the inhabitants of Achaea about measures to address the problem of drunkenness. You know it's a problem that concerns both the Corinthian and the Patronian Gulf. Since last year's experience of the summer we have seen that there have been serious problems both in fishing and in tourism, but also in all the other business activities linked to the coastal front. Furthermore, this fact - I think you should know - has given rise to serious concern among all the inhabitants of the coastal regions, as bathing has also been hampered. Minister, the Corinthian vagina with the latter provisions has joined the NATURA network. In accordance with Article 19 of Law 4519/2018 the possibility of placing protective nets, i.e. seats without plying on the bottom, and in sea areas of the NATURA network for the protection of meadow baths for a maximum period of five months. The authorisation to place these nets shall be granted by the competent port authority to port administration bodies or to any person granted or rented a seaport or beach or port zone in application of the provisions of the Law of 2013. What does that mean by simple words? It means that in 95% of cases, Minister, interested parties should submit a study of the nets they will place in front of their shops. This study should also be approved by the port authority. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Then, put the nets at an average cost, which exceeds EUR 15 000 for each shop, to have at service divers to clean these nets and also to have a lifeguard, because there is a risk to the bathers. As you can see, or we will condemn all the coastal fronts in business turbulence, because there is no other possibility, or we will have to look back at the conditions on the basis of which these nets can be put back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Papatheodorou. Please, Minister, for his answer, for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papatheodorou, the question you have put and the information you have given is a matter of competence. The question of the licensing and application of floating nets is a matter of another Ministry. For other issues, you ask me. I will answer you for that, too. I'm just telling you about the rest of your actions beyond the question. Of course, you know that it has been introduced into parliamentary control. There was a question from Mr Papachristopoulos, if I am not mistaken, which was discussed and committed to some measures. You give me the opportunity and I thank you for that. There is therefore an upturn in the phenomenon between 2016 and 2017 in the Corinthian and Patraikos. According to the information we have, there is sufficient density in many areas. The phenomenon is changed by the strong winds. Speaking of which, I think it is worth talking about prevention and treatment. Besides, we'll have a second one if we need to expand the answers. It is not an unknown phenomenon in the Mediterranean Seas. We've all met as a bather. From the evidence we have distinguished phenomena in the Adriatic. The last 12 months we've collected a lot of evidence, because it's our business, we're interested. The phenomenon is influenced by prevailing winds and sea currents, but it is also very affected by species biology. That is why I cannot tell you that this is just a technical matter. What are the main causes according to scientific literature? A major issue is climate change. Hot water, if you like, affects the lush population. It was important and not pleasant that high-temperature high-temperature concentrations were observed in this winter, if I am not mistaken, in the Alkionides, and it was something that had not been observed in previous years. It is a message that climate change is ringing us a bell from all sides. The second issue concerns pollution. The bio-societies and ecosystems of the bottoms and, in general, the pelagic bio-system from nutrient effluents are fed, i.e. from waste water - let us say it - and anthropogenic activities. It's a chronic problem. It has to do with the features of growth in Greece. Let us also charge it to society and the economy and the state. There was no waste infrastructure. First of all, however, I believe it is the state's responsibility in recent years. Incidentally, there is next to me, my colleague with whom we have a joint programme of EUR 1 billion to cover wastewater treatment infrastructure of more than two thousand inhabitants across Greece, because we want not only to save fines, but also to have clean and healthy seas. The third issue to which you refer indirectly to your question is the beaches, which are connected with the issue. There are species that, if you like, are somehow involved in the meadow life chain. They are basically predators and we are interested in and linked, in fact, to the results of major global programmes. Because you are referring to one point in the fact that the measure of limiting fishing by means of the ban did not seem to pay off. So here I would like to tell you, as we are generally discussing, that I have completely different information from the Ministry of Rural Development. A letter from the Fisheries Policy Directorate has been sent to us to inform us that, unfortunately, the International Commission for the Conservation of Tunas and we are talking about tons of tuna in the eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean, the ICCAT plan, had found a reduction in the populations that are monastic predators and had prepared a recovery plan through fisheries management. So there are substantiated scientific proposals, global, not Greek, which prove to be one of the tools we will use. But, to go to this, we committed ourselves to some things last summer, which were implemented. Firstly, the whole productive world and the scientists were in favour of floating nets. The floating nets have been legislated with two legislative interventions of ours. One was last year and the other was in February. We will discuss the implementation of this and then my reply. The second is that we have indeed committed ourselves and incorporated the Corinthian Gulf into the network of protected areas. It's a big change for the Corinthian vagina. There is a ministerial decision of my own and of the Minister for Rural Development and now is part of the NATURA network. The third is that the establishment of the management body of the Corinthian Gulf has been established by Law 4519/2018, a request for self-government and productive bodies for years. You are giving me the opportunity to say once again and to transfer to the local community of the county you represent, that there is an invitation to staff the administrative councils of the management bodies of protected areas which expire on 5 May, because these bodies will manage much more specifically the issue of both the odors and the other elements of the marine ecosystem. The fourth - which is why we are pleased about - is that we have finally found funding. We announced on 3 October 2017, as we committed ourselves, the specific environmental study for the Corinthian region, where ecosystem analysis will also be carried out to manage the phenomenon, because indeed by means of retrospective measures and - let us say - there is no repressive response to a very important physical phenomenon in the bio-community. This project costs a total of 17.5 million in Greece. Including Corinthian and there, apart from the country's obligation towards European directives, there will also be a design of fishing and tourism entrepreneurship with respect, but also by interdependence with the natural environment. So these are things that you gave me the opportunity to say that we made a commitment less than a year ago and that has all been done. In other words, there is the institutional framework requested by businessmen, the body, the integration into the NATURA region, and of course, there are also initiatives with PPE, the Hellenic Maritime Research Centre and the Ministry of Island Policy for the placement of these dams and for the specifications. Just because I've spent a lot of time, I'll fill out some technical information about what you're asking for and then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Mr. Papatheodorou, please for your dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u47	It is true that this is also a matter for your Ministry and the Ministry of Shipping and Islands Policy. What I would say to you is that, because for businessmen and the inhabitants of the region is the number one problem in the next period, there are great property that is lost and lost from the point of view of that there is no possibility of them being exploited, I would say that we really need coordination here to go quickly. What do scientists say today? No studies have been performed. You said before that we will proceed to a study. It's positive. But for the second year, for a second summer period, the businessmen in the region, and also the residents, will have to manage a crisis that is currently unprecedented. I would say to you that I was informed by storekeepers in the area who are concerned about changing the criteria for issuing the permits for the use of the Aegean Sea, that the Land Office, Mr. Minister, to proceed with the licensing or the licence application, requires the shopkeepers, businesses, the full liquidation of the beach from every permanent construction, even from the bases of the umbrellas that they had to operate on their businesses. You can understand that this is not only absurd, but it is also an additional cost to the storekeeper of EUR 15 000 which should be depreciated during the summer. Most of the time, of course, this cannot be done. So what we are saying today is this: because we are at the beginning of the summer season, I think it is appropriate to coordinate the other co-legislative ministries on your own initiative so that, at least, they can be given the possibility of favouring the operators who would like to put protective nets on their own. I think that this on the one hand will benefit the environment, but on the other hand it will not condemn them to an entrepreneurial inertia throughout the summer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Papatheodorou. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u49	The development of the debate is particularly positive and I would like to contribute to what has been left over and respond to some of your concerns. When for the first time last year we legislated on the possibility of placing these extra nets, I had held a special meeting with the President of the Corinthian Gulf Dimension, in order to ask first of all for the dissemination of this good practice, the evaluation by professionals and municipalities and the feedback - so to speak, Greek - that is to say, the feedback, to see what conclusions are, both in terms of cost and licensing. It is true that, although business and tourist businesses were asking for it last year, there were no such good practices, at least in our own knowledge. That is why, on 19 April, if I am not mistaken, Mr Kourublis had already called for a meeting - I do not know if you were too, I suppose, because you were, because there were various other members - on the same subject, which has to do with the application of this practice, since we are controlling the licensing of nets with the colleagues of the Ministry of Shipping, concerning which I agree with you that our contribution must be to speed up and facilitate licensing. However, I would like to say to you that I have already taken the initiative and we are doing technical research, since we have responsibility for the quality and technical characteristics of the nets. There was one information in our Ministry that the nets used are heavy, it is difficult to clean themselves up and they are expensive, that is, they are made of materials which, if you like, have a high cost. So there is a market research and we will give a circular for technical specifications for both the public and the private sectors, because I have heard that several regions are preparing measures of the MAGP - I say this to the Minister responsible - for financing these floating nets. I have no question of it, we will support it. We will therefore send proposals to the regions and to the managing authorities, but also to the tourism sector, for alternative means of transport, which have little cost and easy cleaning. You asked for it and it's already in our plan. I'm not going to announce what we've done, that is, what we've been in touch with. However, we are doing market research in our country because it is important to be from local production and to strengthen it. But he's going to be a circular for this. But I have to tell you this: if anyone would like an eco-system study to deal with this issue, it should have started about five years ago to make the observation. We, obviously, from last year, as we promised, started it. We found funding in October and announced it. But, Mr Papatheodorou, this has nothing to do with the management of the cavalry. You will allow me here to say something more. There were incidents in our country, where businesses in the tourist sector had placed umbrellas and seats, not only without permission but also densely populated. Such an example has recently been given to the rope, a protected area in the National Park of Spines - Marathon. Since last year we have made a ministerial decision for the first time on the rental of beaches, which at last includes the criteria of NATURA, and we are preparing a law with the Ministry of Finance for the Cavalry, to resolve these issues and to strengthen the entrepreneurship that needs to be healthy. In the NATURA areas, because the specifications are a little stricter, they are illegally some of the umbrella seats, while in some municipalities the competitions were made. I would therefore like to tell you that it is not allowed in areas protected by umbrellas on the coast. That's not allowed. And well they did and cleaned up, because they have to be transported and temporarily. They can't stay in the winter season because they're insulting both the ecosystem and the ammothins and possibly some other elements of the ecosystem. I don't know all about Greece. But that's what you gave me the chance to say. So arbitrary umbrellas, bases and structures must be withdrawn. There is the process now for the private sector and municipalities to be able to make the necessary leases. There will be a law of the saint this year with the Ministry of Finance. It's another question, but, since you said it, we can solve it. There will be a circular from us for light, cheap nets to both the regions and the tourism sector and an intervention for the licensing of the Ministry of Shipping. They have already done so. I asked them. But they must answer it to you themselves, because it is not right for me to enter the field of another ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u52	Here you go, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, take note of something: what you say about the procedure is correct. From Akrata to Cyclone there are four employees to check all these procedures. Only four! What does that mean? That Christmas will be over next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u54	You're talking about the Department of Shipping, but that's not how it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u55	Good. Secondly, I answer your question: there was indeed a meeting at the Ministry of Shipping. And I think you should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u56	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u57	So you're right. Only SYRIZA MPs were invited. I think the batters aren't SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u58	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Papatheodorou, it's pink. We'll also need special nets if they're SYRIZA or ANEL or PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u60	I was asked by many residents and businessmen: "Well, the three MPs of SYRIZA Achaia went. The rest of them why didn't go?' And I told them at the time, saying, "It must be SYRIZA's cheeks, which is why they went."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much. We wished. Mr. Haritsis won't subsidise the nets.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u62	The only clarification is that they were representatives of primary, secondary and Greek Maritime Research Centres, because they were also the Green Fund. From there on, Mr Papatheodorou, in the technical, indeed, we shall intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. We move on to the next two topical questions which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Alexandros Haritsis. First we will discuss the third with the Minister of Economy and Development, No. 1261-6-3-2018, a topical question by Evros, New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios Anastasios (Tasos) and the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Biosity of the Factory of the Greek Sugar Industry of Orestiad". Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the last three years of your administration you have changed five times the board of the Greek Sugar Industry with all the consequences. That's a record. In September 2017 you changed the last board of directors and even at a time when the campaign had already begun, the seasonal officials were hired and delayed, because it was not competent to sign up for the fuel market, so that we go back and have a great disaster with regard to beet, which was cultivated and unfortunately still unintentional because of the weather phenomenon until now. Are you going to compensate them? I would also like to inform you, although you are well aware, that you have paid 35% by the end of the year. Unfortunately, none of these euros entered the customs producer fund, but at their expense. The remaining 65% were agreed to be paid after the Cooperative Bank. In the context of the signature of a loan by everyone concerned with the guarantee of the Greek Sugar Industry, however, they also constitute a global originality and live for the first time our people. Of course, there is also fear and fear and concern. I would also like to inform you that the modulators of Evros and Rhodopes have said that they will cultivate fourteen thousand acres. Sadly, however, when you started giving the carved seed to the rest of the country, namely Thessaly, Macedonia, Central Greece, Kopaida, you excluded Evros and Rhodope. This has resulted in ten thousand acres in the rest of the country, and only two thousand acres in Evros were taken for two thousand acres. Also, in the rest of the area you gave the butterfly seed at the end of the growing season. But, in ours, which is also late, you have given at the last minute, so that there is currently no seed design for many thousands of acres and anguish is created if the factories are to work. In view of the above, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister - and for historians' reasons, in fact, I say that both of my colleagues, from Evros, are following today's debate, which shows the interest in the whole of the law: First, through this failed plan, what is your design for the Greek Sugar Industry, which factories from this industry will work? Secondly, are you going to compensate the some fifty twelfth-oil growers, whose beet has remained unintentionally unintentionally, and are they now rotting in the garden and in their fields? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Prussakis. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, you will allow me to begin with the observation that you are making a methodological mistake - let me tell you - you are using the second plural: 'You are doing', 'you are showing', etc. You should remember that the Greek Sugar Industry has no longer belonged to the Greek State for years. You should know that through this process, which took place years ago, on governments of today's Antipolitics, sale of the Agricultural Bank, the Greek Sugar Industry does not belong to the Greek State. And why am I saying that? I say this because, unfortunately, we have lost the opportunity - because you spoke about administrations, etc. - to conduct a direct strategy, to be able to monitor exactly the course of this group directly as a Greek state. There are too many people involved in this story, you know that very well, it is a very complex issue, which is even more complex in view of the international context. And since I am talking about the international framework, if you do not know, that in recent months, at European level, overproduction of sugar combined with the abolition of quatas, quotas, in October 2017, has led to a collapse of the international price of sugar. This, of course, favours the large international industries, which are economically strong and can cope with this price reduction, creates a very big problem for economically weak enterprises, such as the Greek Sugar Industry. In this context, therefore, the suffocating framework is called the Greek Sugar Industry - and with our support to the extent of the potential - given this complex, if you like, a difficult property framework in which we are called upon to operate. We, from the first moment we committed ourselves that the Greek industry of Zecharis will remain alive, will remain active, will remain productive, and we have done so with very great difficulties, and that is what they wanted to do, and projects that have led to the dissolution of the Greek industry of Zecharis. I should therefore like to inform you, with regard to the questions you are asking, that, after a very long effort, after a silent work, after working with the administration, with the creditor, with the liquidator who has the shares in the company, we do not have them, after working with the farmers and with the workers we have now come to the point that - and I would also inform the House of this - about nine out of ten million, which was the total debt to farmers for the 2017 growing season. This process is progressing smoothly. As also goes on in the new campaign - to the extent of, of course, practicable and given the difficulties -, as seeds were given to producers who were interested in bringing forward a new crop. I'm not going to look good on the situation, Mr. Prisoner. The numbers are too difficult. The numbers, I'd say, are dramatic. Nevertheless, a plan was drawn up, which we consider to be giving way to the Greek Sugar Industry for the next day. And what do I mean by that? The plan to find a strategic investor, which will be able to finance the Greek Sugar Industry with new funds, to meet the obligations of the past, which, I would remind you, has now reached EUR 165 million for the creditor, after the way in which all previous years have been managed. I would also remind you that, at the moment we are talking, earlier administrations appointed by previous governments by 2014, are in the prosecutor for corruption that reaches EUR 52 million. These are the phenomena that have led us to the present situation of the Greek Sugar Industry. So I can tell the House again that the negotiations with this strategic investor are at a very advanced stage. Next time, in the next few days, in the next few weeks, I think it will be the administration of the Greek Sugar Industry in a position to announce the successful completion of this agreement. On the question of unspeakable beet, let me say that the information we have from the administration is that their export has already begun and producers will be compensated. There is agreement between the management of the company and ELGA to proceed with the compensation. And a very quick conversation about the Orestiad factory, which you referred to in your timely question. Look, to be clear to each other and not to talk again about things that hurt the Greek Sugar Industry, as well as the Greek industry as a whole in the previous years, the Greek Sugar Industry is a group. The solution we are called upon to find for the Greek Sugar Industry concerns the whole group. The efforts made were therefore about the group's viability, including the Orestiad plant. The proposals submitted for the entry of a strategic investor into the group relate to the group as a whole. It's not about a specific factory. I do not think of myself - if you have, let me know - a similar proposal. We are therefore moving forward with an operational plan for the sustainability of the whole group, which will of course include a very important asset, which is the Orestiad plant, which will also be operating in the coming years through this agreement. On the subject of the CAP, so as not to leave a question unanswered, even though it is, of course, in the portfolio of another Ministry, as you know, the Ministry of Rural Development, to say that this year the subsidy has increased considerably and the acreage has reached 73 euros. Of course, when we say that we want to maintain tertiary farming, we want to support tertiary farming in the years to come. This will also be part of the country's claim for the new CAP, which is currently being discussed at European level.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u67	Minister, please continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u68	Sure. I'm stopping here. If there's any new questions, I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u70	First of all, I didn't talk about the property. I'm saying, as a ministry, you're the emergency department and the chief. As far as your overall position is concerned, I would like you to bear in mind that the Hebrews are hurt and disturbed. There's a lot of things going on in Evros, which really hurts us. And a further problem will create an even more gloomy climate. Their psychology isn't in the best condition. The factory, which is near the border, has its symbolism. I am transferring you the anxiety of the customs producers, which is expected, because they do not know what dawns them. Other hits have been taken at this time, due to weather phenomena, so we have flooding phenomena and their crops are under water. You realize that we have particular problems. Some crops have been completely destroyed. They have suffered significant financial damage. So far, we've got unscrupulous promises. Mr. Minister, you have a great experience, because your friends rank in the category of good economist and are currently trying to make good decisions for the Greek Sugar Industry as well as for the Orestiad and our county for Thrace. We want to make full use of this plant and you should also check any activities other than the purpose for which it is currently being used. Of course, we also have a university, the Rural Development Fund, which is "swimming" with this factory. It would be a wish to exploit science, because it will always have added value for the place, but also for the object. The last time you've been looking for investors, as you said, and we've seen a lot of press reports and not just. Can you tell us who they are? Is he in Greece? Is he abroad? Which country do they come from? Is the company acting like such a big cost and such a big responsibility? If the strategic investor comes in, what will be the fate of permanent employees and seasonal employees, as well as the assets of all factories and other property? Have you thought about operating the Sugar Factory in another form, for example, in the context of the OTA, and not only, why has local interest been shown by institutional players in the country but also by the country? Evros, Minister, should always be on behalf of the government and every government in the priorities and not just once a year, because the Prime Minister himself, in Komotini at the Regional Council, was committed to continuing the operation of the Greek Sugar Industry and our respective factory. I think that in this general position we should every morning, when each minister rises, think about what he will do about Evros and the islands. There are the shields of the nation, there is the protection of the capital and you should be generous and brave in your decisions and not feel abandoned. This is the climate that I am bringing you, this is the climate that brings you and the presence of my two colleagues, the government MPs in the Prefecture of Evros. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Prussakis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prussakis, in your dentistry you have essentially opened the "vetalia" of the debate and talked more about the issues of Evros and Thrace. I am at your disposal, if you would like, to put a question to you as a whole about the interventions we are doing on the Evros issues and I am very pleased to reply to you. I will only say two things because it is very important. We know the peculiarities of the region and I personally have visited the area. We've talked to local bodies. We really know the difficulties and challenges they are going through. Because times are difficult and it is not enough to express, if you wish, our solidarity and support, we have in recent months, in the financing of two very important projects for the Prefecture of Evros, for your region, for the customs office in the Gardens and for the expansion of the port of Alexandroupolis. I think it is two interventions that are very critical, which, as far as I know, have also received a very positive response from the local and regional residents themselves. Let us return to the question of the Greek Sugar Industry. In recent months a model has been followed, I would say, according to international standards, to find a strategic investor. Obviously for confidentiality reasons, I am not in a position to answer you in relation to the investor's identity or plan. What matters, however, is that there has been a job which, unfortunately, had not been done in all previous years, which should have been considered by the previous governments for many years before the Greek Sugar Industry arrived at the lack of any further. This job wasn't done. This work is now being done, so that resources can be found, to find the funds, so that the Greek Sugar Industry can remain alive. Mr. Purchass, this is a case that has dealt with us too much. We have been tormented very much in recent years by the history of the Greek Sugar Industry, because it is indeed a very critical industry. It is the largest industry associated with the primary sector, with the rural world of our country and mainly northern Greece, central Macedonia and Thrace. To tell the citizens the truth. The truth is, the situation is very difficult. The truth is that a very important systematic effort has been made, with the cooperation of all involved and in constant contact with both workers and farmers, to deal with this very difficult situation. Both with regard to the payment of the debts, both in terms of new crops, in terms of the operation of the plants, this has so far yielded fruit. The Greek Sugar Industry remains alive. I would remind you that in 2015 the factories were closed, when we received them, and by the advent of a strategic investor I think that the Greek Sugar Industry is now gaining perspective for the future as well. What we have finally been called upon to do within this suffocating framework in which we are called upon to operate was to square the cycle, Mr Düsseldorf. That is exactly what we are doing and that is how we will be able to save Orestiad, but also for all the assets of the Greek Zacharis Industry and in central Macedonia, Imathia, Thessaly, Larissa and Serres, to save it, to rectify it and to play its role in the next few years for the primary sector and for the industry in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much to the Minister. Let's say in 2015 we gave 34 million from the clearer. I was too busy saving the Greek Sugar Industry in 2015, when we took over. I want to make two announcements to this House. The first communication concerns a letter from Mr Georgios Katsiantonis to the President of the Greek Parliament, informing him of his independence from the Group of the Union of Centres, which will be recorded in the minutes of this sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u74	I would also like to inform the House that the Intergroup of Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on Journalism, set up on 22-5-2017, in accordance with Rules 44 and 45 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report on 30 April 2018, calls for an extension of its function until the end of the session of the Third Session of the IZ's Period. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u75	So the House unanimously agreed. The sixth under number 1523/18-4-2018 a top-level question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “The reversal of a truck in Halkidiki”, will not be discussed due to a blockade by Mr. The first under No. 1547/24-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Construction within areas of jurisdiction of the administration and the exploitation of ports", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The fourth under number 1540/23-2018 topical question for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turks are engaged in smuggling of tobacco within Greek territorial waters", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The fifth question under number 1522/18-14-2018, the first-round question from the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on "Construction within and outside the jurisdiction of the administration and operation of ports", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. We move on to the second question with number 1792/4-12-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Athens of the Democratic Comparison of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “A programme for cross-border cooperation “Interreg” of Greece - Italy (2014-2020) with regard to the Municipality of Paxon”. Please, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, when you look at the national accounts of billions, it may seem to him that few and small projects, which, for small regions, have EUR 100,000, 200,000, and it seems to him that because the sum is too small, are the subject of small amounts. It is not so, however, because, as we all know well, for a small area, a small municipality, a small island and EUR 100,000 and EUR 150,000 may be very necessary to improve living conditions. So the Paxes, the municipality, the local community, are an excellent island - for those who know it - and for issues relating to their tourism, to cultural heritage, to the issues of the economy, to the issues of residents living there and insist in winter, these programmes - Italy 2014-2020, that is, your entire period - are very beneficial, characteristic and important, one would say. We have made, as a Democratic Participation since March, an overall intervention on the issues of the ESDP and our purpose is not to attack you and doro but, where we can, to help. This should be done through parliamentary control or parliamentary intervention. I am therefore putting forward a job, which is quite diligent. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, we have for 2014-2020 'Interreg', an account that does not look for a price to anyone - if I am well informed. And I give you what I have in a very specific way. We have 123 million euros, seven proposals for Paxos, critical projects for environmental, water, cultural tourism and, in this respect, 50% of the proposals are evaluated and the money that has been put on the market, that is, the municipality, is zero! One sees, Minister, absorption in general in cross-border programmes, the 'Interreg', looking with Cyprus, looking with FYROM, looking with Bulgaria, looking with Albania, and the statistics are the same. Nor up to 50% of the proposals, zero euros depositing money. I'm also presenting them to you, which my partner Babis Vardikos has curated. I think we're reliable on the evidence we're giving. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I don't want to make you the alpha or the beta critical comment or to be merciful. I would just like to ask you, because they will also listen to us, if there is anything more to be done, and if the central administration can help people if they have some problems with the training of the programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much Mr. Loverdo. Please, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Loverdo, thank you for the question. First of all, it is not very common to ask questions about'small areas' and'small projects'. I think it is, however, very useful and very important to have this debate. Let me make a more general comment and then I will come to the specific issue. The general comment is about INTERREG and the fact that all cross-border programmes are part of European co-financed programmes. The work we think is too systematic for us to use all the funds at our disposal. It is a job that is recognised by our partners in Europe as well. Just yesterday, President Juncker on his visit to Athens mentioned the first of our countries to absorb the relevant funds - in total, I am talking about the European co-financed programmes - and I think it is a very important vote of confidence in the prospects of the Greek economy. But I come to this. I agree with you that, of course - and we see this throughout the country, the case of the Paxes is a very characteristic example - projects which, for a large region, a region, may be considered small and important for a small place and especially for an island with all the peculiarities that islands entail, are very important. In this sense, I think, a very systematic effort has been made on our part, namely the Ministry, in cooperation with the local players, because without them, we cannot do anything, so that we can implement important projects in this region as well as the Municipality of Paxos. For these projects, which you are asking in your question, I would like to inform you that the assessment of the proposals of the cross-border programme has been completed. In this assessment, as you know, service actors are involved, both from Greece and Italy, since we are talking about a cross-border cooperation programme between the two countries. As far as the three specific projects concerned are concerned, unfortunately, the first two 'POSEIDON' and 'GAIA' were rejected by this bilateral committee for formal reasons because they did not meet the criteria for the invitation, while the third proposal was rejected because of a low score. In other words, it passed the formal control procedure, but it was rejected because there were other proposals which raised a higher score. However, two very important projects for the Paxos were approved by the same cross-border 'Interreg' programme. The first concerns the design and construction of the port, Gaius, to welcome small cruises with a budget of 900,000 euros and the second concerns the construction of a water service in Corfu, three islands northwest of Corfu and the Paxos, with a total budget of 1,1 million euros. Of course, support for the Paxes is not limited to the Interreg cross-border programmes. This period is being implemented and completed by the NRP - I would say that this is the most important project for the region, as for every local society - the construction of a water network, with a budget of more than EUR 9 million, and is being implemented by the Regional Operational Programme of the Ionian Islands, in the context of the new NSRF, the restoration of the old Christian Basilic temples in the Paxos, with a budget of EUR 300,000. There are therefore very important interventions with co-financing between national and European and the Paxos, which we believe to be very critical.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u79	The relationship isn't 85%-15%?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u80	It's a variety. 85% -15% is the general rule, but from a programme there is a different ratio. However, on the basis of your question, I would like to say - and I will contact the local bodies, the district and the municipality - that we should also see the programmes that have been rejected, either for formal or substantive reasons, so that these interventions, which I understand, are important for the Municipality of Paxon, can be implemented in the next few years. I say this because we have been aiming for a long time to see precisely that the needs that exist, especially at local level, for the implementation of such projects throughout Greece - I am sure you know that too - are very great. They are projects that local communities need, mainly local infrastructure projects, which had not been implemented in all previous years. We have therefore proceeded with the creation of new financial instruments to cover those projects which cannot be financed by the regularly funded NSRP programmes, whether they concern European programmes or cross-border programmes, such as INTERREG, which we are debating today. In this sense, we have created the new infrastructure fund, with the activation of public and private resources amounting to EUR 1 billion, but also a new programme, the 'Philodimos' programme, which is aimed solely at municipalities. Through the European Investment Bank, municipalities can receive loans from the European Investment Bank and the repayment of the loan is a burden on the Public Investment Programme, that is, the State and not the municipality. The municipality is not paying exactly anything for the implementation of local infrastructure projects. So there are the tools. Let us see, together with the Municipality of Paxon, how we can use them to implement those interventions which could not be integrated into the Interreg cross-border programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. Look, based on what you say, which I have no reason to question from the outset, I tell you that people are watching us there and you and me. I welcome them, but they are at the discretion of those who hear and know whether what you say actually touches them or not. I hope they touch. I have no reason to question them right now. Now, I would like to ask three specific questions on them. For the Paxes: I understand what this programme you said about Gaius is. Sounds very important. I ask you - my question I have made it in writing since September 2017 and because it has not been answered, it has become timely - this: Do you have a timetable picture based on Greek administration data and usual delays? Can you, then, tell the people who are listening to us that these can start to apply, that is to say, flow the money then, to have an image? Secondly, I leave the Paxes and go to Interreg in general. Is it correct that the total programme is 123 million euros? If that is the case, with a zero payment today - in the cumulative year 2018 we are, the programme ends in 2020 - how do you plan to fluctuate absorption by 2020? And I am also generally asking myself about the global 'Interreg' programmes for the countries I mentioned, namely FYROM, Bulgaria, Albania, Cyprus. Now, I will not spoil the climate of creative parliamentary intervention, but I would like to ask you a question with rhetorical content. However, because you are a Minister in the field of development and because what has been said about the Space Agency is about the development of the country, I would like to make two points. Firstly, it is very serious - and I would like to ask you how you hear it - a man of a world reputation to blame Greece, because its administration and the political leadership of this administration expels him for no insignificant reasons, and indeed for reasons related to the phrase of 'follow the money'. How did you hear that resignation? Also, how did you hear this resignation concerning a service created by you? Every government can say that I'm picking up a problem of bureaucracy coming from behind. Now, however, the service was set up by you, started by you, and you're proud of it. How is this unit that you have set up, you have sent, it's your product, it's acting like this? And secondly, for you to tell us how the new leader of the services of the Greek state told us about this space about '...Europeans...'? Do you say that again to us, let's hear it? Can you believe it? Did you hear that? Are you commenting on it? It's yours. I remember, Mr President - and I conclude with this - when a committee of inquiry was held on the memorandums, there was a man there who was in the Statistical Office in the old times, and I was very keen to hear that he believed that we were talking about it over and over. He was a prosecutor for the memorials. The sprays are known. Now we are hearing this about '...Europeans', and so on. Say this again to this Chamber, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u84	First of all, what do you mean'remove them'? I don't remember using such expressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u85	Not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u86	You say'remove them'. Have they been said by me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u87	Never do you. They've been told by...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u88	But you should say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u89	I did. I would like to make it quite clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u90	Oh, no. "Remove" means they've been said by me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u91	Let it be clarified, so there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u92	You obviously didn't mean me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Loverdo, please clarify, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u94	Don't get me wrong. I don't mean you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u95	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u96	I was clear. My word wasn't a misunderstanding. I said, 'to go back to this Chamber, what your choice has said to lead the Space Service'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u97	To answer the questions which have been raised. Firstly, with regard to the timetable for implementation of each proposal, which is part of the co-financed programmes, it is accompanied by a specific timetable for implementation. Entities shall be informed. We will send the details to you and to your office to have a full picture of the course of implementing these very important interventions, which have been integrated into the cross-border programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u98	Zero...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u99	But don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u100	Is the zero I said or isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u101	Wait a minute, separate the questions. Your first question was about the timetables, it was not about the amounts. I respond to the timetables for each proposal to be accompanied by a specific timetable for implementation. These timetables are also known to the implementation agencies. We will send them to your office, so that you too can know exactly and be able to monitor and control - you can, of course, also through parliamentary control - if necessary, carry out all these projects. With regard to INTERREG - and I want to be clear here - the work we are doing, the effort that is being done - and this will also be done in INTERREG, as in all European co-financed programmes which we manage - is the full absorption of resources. There is one process in progress, the projects have been integrated, as I have said in my prototype, in the process of approving projects and integrating them into programmes. The next period will go ahead and the funds will be disbursed in full. I inform you that the programming period is mentioned by name as 2014-2020. However, there is the 'n+3' rule, which means that the funds available are used up until 2023. So we have this time before us to absorb all the relevant funds. The important thing, however, which, if you wish, is also the opening-up of the whole process, namely the process of the Monitoring Committee, the supreme body which approves these fundings, has been completed in cooperation with Greece and Italy - where, as you know, in the cross-border programmes, this process is taking more time - and we are therefore making progress in implementing, implementing, disbursing and disbursing these funds. Of course, your last question is not related to the question. It's a more general issue. You said it yourself that the Space Service started by us, started by the current government. I think that's the critical, that goes beyond faces. From there on, since there are specific questions about the operation of the Space Agency, it would be advisable to ask the relevant Minister a question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much to my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the announcement of the reasons why the latest topical questions on today's issue will not be discussed: The first question under number 1544/24-2018, the second question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning the "take measures to distribute the islands of the eastern Aegean and, in particular, Lesvos, by transferring immigrants to mainland Greece", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Migration Policy Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa. Cause, workload. The second question, under number 1528/19-4-2018, of a second question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Migration Policy, on "Reiterates the urgent need for administrative and legislative measures to speed up the examination of asylum applications, following the adoption of the 805/2018 decision of the Minister for Migration Policy Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa" will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the Minister for Migration Policy. Cause, workload. Finally, the first question by No. 1983/11-12-2017 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazidis to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject of "With what process did the "Doctors of the World" of caring for refugees at the hospitality centre in BIP Drama?" will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Migration Policy Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa. Cause, workload. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-27-S1-commons.u103	With the agreement of the House at 11.53p.m. the sitting is closed next Monday, April 30, 2018, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
