ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, let me tell the House: The Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religion: "Following the Agreement between the Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation of the United Nations (UNESCO) and the Government of the Hellenic Republic regarding the establishment of the Centre for Integrated and Interdisciplinary Management of Water Resources at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, as the Category Centre 2 under the auspices of UNESCO". The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'Amendment of Law 3190/1955 on Limited Liability Companies and Other Provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 18 June to 20 June 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, MP Mrs Anastasia Christododoulopoulos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 25 May to 26 May 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, MP Mr Konstantinos Zouraris seeks permission from a short-day absence from 25 June to 29 June 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, let me inform you of the timely questions on which there is the letter from the Secretary of Government, which will not be discussed. The third, with number 1544/24-2018, topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Lesvos, New Democracy, Charalambos Athanasios, to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning measures to eliminate the islands of the Eastern Aegean and, in particular, Lesvos, by transferring migrants to mainland Greece, will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister and the MP. The third, with number 1671/21-5-2018, timely first-round question from the H' Vice-Chairman of Parliament and MEP 2' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Points of hatred by minority children in a ceremony in Xanthi", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the relevant Minister, who will be abroad. The fourth under number 1660-17-5-2018 top-level question of the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "democratic student representation in the EAA", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Education, will be abroad. The fifth question under number 1640/15-2018 of the New Democracy Parliamentary State, Nikos Kerameos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Does the Government finally have a plan for how to enter higher education?", will it not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Education. Cause missing abroad. The sixth question under number 1618/8-5-2018, topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Problems of the Architecture Department of the University of Patras", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Minister of Education. Cause missing abroad. The fourth under number 1589/3-5-2018 topical question from the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Control placement of greenhouses and processing plant for the treatment and production of finished medicinal products for cannabis", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. The first question with number 4297/12-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the intentions of the US Government to impose import duties and the effects of the measure on Greek exports, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Alexandros Haritsis. The first under number 1674/21-5-2018, a top-stage question from the New Democracy MP, Ioannis Plackotakis, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: "E. on the supply of new ferry ships by the Hellenic Coast Guard to strengthen surveillance of maritime borders, effective investigation and rescue and fight against crime at sea," will not be discussed due to an obstacle of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Kourublis. We are starting the debate with the second question number 1692-22-5-2018 on the second question of the Achaias MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Building false news with the participation of Greek officials and the assistance of state media." The question will be answered by the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Nikolaos Pappas, who is present. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President, Minister. My question, Minister, refers to an incident that took place on 17 September 2016 during your stay in New York and involves two Greek journalists, one of your advisers, the RES and the American authorities. Because the questions that arise are many and seem to refer to make news, your answers I think are necessary and will help us to enjoy some impressions that have been created. To quote the facts, I will do without judgments of assessment. On the 17th of September, the Greek mission at the Security Diplomatic Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the United States is asked to check on two Greek journalists who remain in the cafeteria and restaurant at the hotel you were catalysing. The US services make the verification of evidence, journalists are recognised by Greek mission security and the incident is deemed to be over. Impression causes continuity in Greece, as it is relayed. The RES by telegram, Minister, on September 18th at 21.06, announces that the two Greek journalists were arrested in New York for forgery, while with a new telegram on 23.35 hr of Greece, it hosts your statements about "great responsibility for those who put them to do it", i.e. for the misery of forgery of forgery and perhaps of whoever reported on the activities of government officials. I submit to the Minutes and the two telegrams of the RES, because it is important to see how it is completed with your own statements. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned telegrams, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Greece, the news is considered serious, all the media relay it, criticizing the "wig journalists' journalists" which, however, did not seem to have been used by the two journalists during their arrest. On September 20 and 27, the advisor interviews the newspaper "THEY" and writes in the newspaper "THEI" about how warm the US authorities have taken this serious case, about the deposits given by Greek diplomats, about the prospect of conducting criminal prosecutions in this suspected case, which may be behind the seemingly painless forgery of signing a $15.24 other things. I am also presenting both of these publications in the newspapers 'HAY' and 'THONI'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, the two Greek journalists are fired from the channels and newspapers they were working on, most of them are criticised by the way in which they perform their duties and by mid-October in Greece we are discussing what? For the persecution of the American authorities under way. Minister, the question is very simple: What is all this true and what can be said to be a make news, that is, made news? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u6	With a relative comfort, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u7	I shall try, Mr President, to be in time. Mr Papatheodorou, I sincerely believe that he is wrong both yourself and me that Friday in parliamentary control we are called upon to discuss this. Our ministry has a lot of actions. You could really "evaluate" me about how we practice our policy, which you do very often, because that is how democracy works. Now, are you bringing us to the House to answer what? About whether the gentlemen were disguised and followed by us in New York? They've confessed. About whether they forged the signature of a man who was then my partner? They've confessed. About whether they were kept by the US authorities? Because these things are very serious. People were found watching foreign missioners. That's what they did. They haven't doubted it either. Honestly, I don't understand the curiosity of the question. So they were detained by the American authorities, the latter asked me whether and I wanted to move legally, and I replied that I would not do so, because I am a minister on the press too, and I do not think it appropriate to move it legally against journalists. I think it was a great inappropriate thing to do, and I was also careful in my statement, and I gave them a way out, I said that some of them did. From there on, it really seems to me that this is the subject of parliamentary scrutiny. It really amazes me. It's things they've admitted themselves. No media was found here to say that they were 'good to do'. It wasn't found. And now, two years later, in the context of parliamentary control, I ask what? What if they were watching us? They've responded themselves. 'They did', he says, 'big revelations'. Waited for us to go to expensive restaurants to eat. Nothing like that happened. It has excellent and cheap Greek restaurants, Mr. President, New York, from Greeks of the diaspora, where we enjoyed cheap and very good food. They were waiting to see us do expensive shopping. But these days have passed, Mr. Papatheodorou. And can I tell you something? Because these people are not the first time they do so, I would ask you to discuss a little with Mrs Anna Diamantopoulou, who is a member of your party and ask her about her respective experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u8	He's in another party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u9	Good. So, let's say now that we're going to be seeing each other again next Friday to discuss something more seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u10	Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u11	Minister, I am glad you do not consider this serious and I am glad that you are so open to parliamentary scrutiny, because I have ten times tabled the question on who paid Mars Davarakis, who said that the money came from your account and you did not come to answer. But we're going to this. I don't mind what journalists did to me if they practiced correct journalism or respected ethics. I am very interested in how from government sources we relay to Greece whether there were any arrests or not. Her ridiculous case - you are right - is the following. The Greek mission seems to have formally requested the US authorities to file charges against Greek journalists without an established offence. You said earlier that they were'retained'. It is better than what the RES wrote, namely that they have been arrested. They weren't detained or arrested. This, however, is evidenced by documents. Isn't that right? So what we are interested in is the validity of the RES, but also the validity of the government circles, which had been mentioned, for arrests, forgeries, forgery of disguised journalists - they are what you are saying - and the Greek mission, Mr Minister, since 18 September, since the next day, has had the response of the US authorities. So someone was lying consciously, or you got the answer that no one was arrested, that there was a trace of evidence, and from that point on, people were released. What I am interested in is not if they did their job well or if they signed right and left. I am interested in how a source of government comes out of Greece that journalists were arrested and how they appear in the US, now, on the Greek side, to ask for the arrest of journalists, "pressing charges", i.e. the indictment of charges. That is what matters, therefore, if the Greek mission, in which you participated, asked for the first time that these journalists should be brought in and not brought in. What I mind, Minister, is something else and is very important. Do you know when all this came out? I will be in my time, Mr President. They came out when the U.S. State Department's Foreign Ministry's Foreign Ministry's Foreign Responsibility Center, that is, those accredited to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this case, asked both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the NYPD to confirm whether there was an incident, whether there was a crime and how the police handled this crime. Do you know what the answer was? The official response of the US authorities, which you also had, was: "Special representatives of the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs Diplomatic Security Department did not arrest the journalists, on September 17, 2016, at the Westin Hotel in New York during the United Nations meeting. We refer you to the NYPD to confirm that the two people were not arrested by the NYPD." So who was it who built the news in Greece? Why is the RES with two continuous telegrams coming from government sources, as it says - I am not saying this - relaying these things to Greece? And the question is: why did the Greek mission ask for charges to be filed? Because this, Minister, appears in the Foreign Ministry's replies, where he says the New York Police are handling the Greek mission's request to file charges against the two journalists. That's the truth. Let the two reporters go. Answer that and I'll be pleased.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u12	I think the Minister has already answered, to tell us his reasoning, of course. The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u13	So I repeat that the forgery has taken place. They went and signed a receipt of the hotel with my partner's name. They had done this with Mrs Diamantopoulou's partner before. That's the first. Secondly, I am pleased that you do not question the facts, that these people were disguised and intended to watch and watch. So the facts are accurate and I am glad - let me see - your attempt to distance yourself from this practice as well. So I welcome her. From there, I'm very afraid I have nothing to add. The facts speak for themselves. These people disguise themselves to watch us. Let everyone judge whether journalism should be practiced in this way, let everyone judge whether the way you do, Mr Papatheodorou, should also exercise politics. For we here in Parliament must prove, Mr Papatheodorou, that if there is not to be 'democratic vomiting' once, there must be no 'political vomiting' at all. And this is a cubit that - as it seems for some - is too high to pass through.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next two questions which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Stathakis, who is present. The second question, then, under number 1653/15-2018, is the first time that Members of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, will be discussed, on the subject: 'They are cutting the current in the TWGs - they are blackmailing farmers'. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to have a very serious debate today, because the point I raise in my timely question is perhaps the most serious issue that concerns farmers throughout the country. I am referring, Mr President, to the about three hundred thousand Greek farmers, who are organised at the Local Improvement Agency, and for whom there is a huge issue in almost all of Greece. My reference is, of course, about the twenty TWGs of Argolida, and today, as we speak for four days, PPC has cut the current in all pumping stations - I repeat - and the whole production, apricot, orange, vegetables and everything is at stake. Where are we, and why did we get here? I will read to you, Minister - and I would like your interpretation - three figures. In 2013 GEOV Argolidas owed PPC EUR 420,000, in 2014 he owed PPC 403,000. In 2015 the debt is ejected and doubled to 800,000 euros, 2016 to 1,200,000 euros and 2017 to 2,060,000 euros. From the EUR 400,000 in 2013 and 2014 we reached a debt of EUR 2.060,000 in 2017. I would like a first interpretation of you, Minister. Now I would like to put forward a proposal, because we are a serious party, we do not act as opposition as SYRIZA operated when it was opposition. My proposal has four legs. At the moment, Mr President, at one hour there will be insurance measures submitted by the Argolida farmers in order to restore the current and to normalize the cultivation. It has four legs, I read the titles, and I ask Minister, your opinion. Firstly, the 30% advance demanded by PPC to allow them to have a month of extension so that the water runs and the crops will not be destroyed. Secondly, several instalments should be given not only twenty-four, such as the equivalent that we make in the red loans a hundred instalments, the equivalent that PPC will give for all three hundred thousand farmers in Greece. I'm concerned about the about 12 thousand of Argolida. Third proposal: connect PPC's policy when it must or wants to cut power to farmers, not when farmers get their compensation from disasters or subsidies for subsidised products. It is not possible for the state to delay two and a half years to give them compensation when snow or hail fell and, respectively, the state with the other hand up to 51% of PPC tell them, "go now" when it has not given them the compensation". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The fourth part - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - of my proposal is to ensure absolutely - and I would like your commitment - that there will not be an increase in the electricity price for farmers for the next time. Why, the recent study of "McKENZIE" for PPC told us that there is such a scenario in order to address the huge financial problems faced by PPC. In my denture I will come back with the completion of a positive proposal as well, and I would like to hear the Minister's opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u16	The Minister has the floor. You will also have a relative comfort of time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u17	I think we should agree that all the TWGs are not the same. I repeat all TWGs are not the same! There are accumulated debts of between 40 and 50 million euros from the TWGs and so many from individual farmers. I would like to stress that these debts are three categories. It is a mismanagement debt of previous years. So we have TWGs that pay PPC normally from a time point of time and beyond with new administrations. But they have accumulated debts from previous mismanagements, which cannot be managed. The answer to this question is simple. PPC is invited to exhaust, as it concerns administrations, all its possibilities to cover the old debts of TWG with the maximization of its capabilities. I have the certainty and strong evidence that PPC makes adjustments in this case and beyond the twenty-four doses. There's room for it. There have been adjustments with forty or fifty doses. We have a second TWG category too. A large portion of farmers pay their debts. Another portion does not pay its obligations. In this case, in some way, we must ensure the smooth functioning and defence of the rights of farmers who are typical of their obligations, against those who systematically do not pay. In this area, too, I think PPC has made contact with TWG. He is trying to find solutions in this case, keeping closer to the idea of whether they are consistent with the arrangements that have already been made since previous years, namely 2016, 2017 or the current year. We also have a third category of TWG that is totally problematic, which not only pays PPC, but there are also important issues of irregularities. Unfortunately some of these TWGs are in your area. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I'm coming to Argolida now. Six TWGs currently in Argolida owe 2.7 million euros. The two have reached an agreement. The rest do not come in substantial and productive dialogue with PPC. So without dialogue, without serious debate there is no way of finding a solution. In some of these cases, both you and others have been notified of the audit carried out by sworn accountants, by a particular office, who have identified serious misappropriations of embezzlement, money laundering, tax evasion and so on. This third and last category, obviously, goes beyond and now wants different types of arrangements for this TWG category. I would remind you that control of TWG has been passed in the regions. We consider that there should be categorised and therefore, firstly, able to support with the greatest possible regulation - as far as the duration and advances you have implied for TWGs that have made arrangements - those who are very well placed in the earlier arrangements and who are calling for improvements. It's understandable to do it. Secondly, we must resolve the problem of TWG - to which we have an unequal behaviour of farmers - which also requires specific regulation by the TWGs and the control mechanisms and, of course, by the Ministry of Rural Development, in order to find a way in which non-conscious farmers can commit to meeting their needs. And in the third case, I fear that we will go to temporary solutions, i.e. to TWGs which are having a temporary debate, temporary administrations, since we have such great legal problems, administrations that can now come to the negotiation, rather than completely abstaining from it for the reasons I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u18	Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u19	Minister, I like to see a representative of SYRIZA - you are a serious man - not answering the key question of what happened with that famous slogan "I don't pay", which led some 1.5 billion debt to PPC in 2014, to have reached 3.5 billion today, despite the fact that with various - introductory - "collaps" - there is an attempt on the part of the government to hide. You did not answer me, of course, because you think that for example in the Argolida GEOV we had 400,000 in 2013 and 2014 and you said 2,600,000 in 2017. Now to make something clear, I hear from the Minister that there are audits by auditors and accountants, which I welcome and applaud. It's all there is to be given to publicity immediately. The farmers, who have mismanaged their pocket money, should know why the farmers have paid these, and the administrations should be punished. But I'm asking a big question. Well, Minister, three and a half years didn't you see them? Now suddenly came the check after three and a half years that SYRIZA is ruling? I would have liked you to have done this much earlier. But, Mr President, I would like to go to the next issue of my own dentistry. You know, Minister, if there is no customer, there is no provider. PPC has to realise that the customer of Greek farmer is a customer who can give her good income, who is trying to be consistent with his obligations, despite the fact that he has been facing a terrible burden in terms of insurance contributions and tax contributions over the past three and a half years. But there should be fundamentally simple logic, such as, for example, the four proposals I mentioned earlier, and I regret to say that I did not hear your positive response on all four issues. I hear that there is one direction for PPC to be given up to fifty instalments. We ask that there be a hundred doses, obviously, in cases where there is a solvency against the PPC interlocutor. But I want you to tell me who TWO Argolidas has this problem you have said. I want it to be said here publicly to account for those who have mismanaged Argolida's money. Mr President, I will conclude with a proposal with which I think the Minister will agree. In 2014, we had a structural intervention to facilitate farmers in their energy costs. In 2014, then, we legislated so-called energy netting. In other words, TWGs, especially TWGs, can install photovoltaic units to reduce their energy costs by about 60%. That was a very important intervention, which should have been followed up. Unfortunately for two years, with the current government, there has been no continuity. I am glad that today's Minister has moved on and extended it. I think it is a good thing, and I voted in favour of it at the time as rapporteur for the Democratic Reconciliation. But there's a huge gap. What's that void? How do we help bring about the legislation that we agree we need to implement? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, I tell you that neither your operational programme nor the operational programme of the Ministry of Rural Development nor the operational programme of the Ministry of Digital Policy has so far been given at least EUR 1 for Greek farmers, for the TWGs. I repeat that we have four hundred TWGs throughout Greece, to which there are three hundred thousand Greek farmers. I ask you to coordinate as government the three co-legislative ministries. We have sources of funding. It is the NSRF, it is the European Investment Bank, it is the Juncker package and it combines three individual areas of European policies. It is the sectoral energy and environmental protection policy, it is the sectoral policy common agricultural policy for farmers, and it is also the sectoral digital economy. Minister, there is no other sector of our economy as the agricultural sector - what we call modern digital agriculture, precision agriculture - which can, in fact, provide so much money to reduce energy costs. I would therefore ask you, Minister, on your own initiative to consult, so that immediately the TWGs that have the opportunity to do so, and the individual agricultural groups of farmers when they are able to install photovoltaics here, so that we can reduce energy costs by 60% and thus move on to another production model, with a quality agriculture that will produce competitive products and keep the farmer in his field. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u20	Good. Now the issue is whether TWGs will get power in Argolida today. The other one is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u21	Not only, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u22	And not just. That's right, Mr. Barca. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u23	The answer to the first question is that everyone will open a dialogue with PPC now. There's no other way. There are various thoughts to support this effort - I repeat - with facilities of all kinds and kinds, which will make it realistic to address this problem. Now, let's go to the second point you raised. You are right that when we discussed in the energy communities we said that we should also find financial tools to make it easier. The juncture is now very good. Yesterday, for the first time, we secured 32 million from the NSRP to support energy communities. It will be the first financial instrument to start. And because it is an institution with enormous dynamics and perspectives, we believe that this stimulus will stimulate many others, both in the TWGs and in the municipalities and in groups of individuals, in order to move on. And then we will also look for additional resources. However, the start has been made and I am delighted that the first cycle of investments by energy communities will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, will the Argolina farmers come? We didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u25	I can't make any other kind of intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u26	...for dialogue...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u27	But what kind of dialogue? This is where production is being destroyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u28	Good. Well, I don't mean that production is being destroyed. We move on to the debate of the first under No 1675/21-5-2018 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament Evros of the New Democracy. Anastasios Prussias State to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Amendment of Article 59 of Law 4512/2014 (Government 5 A'17-01-2018) and on the legislative initiative for the reception of natural deposits materials in the Prefecture of Evros'. Mr Prussakis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the multi-legislative government's draft for the third assessment, at No 4512/2018, which was passed in January, you have adopted an article 44 on quarrying in this respect concerning the municipal areas which are or will be quarries. This is how you solved - and I thank you publicly - a problem which was afflicted by the Municipality of Dumotech, but also concerned the central and northern Evros, but making half the good in my area. For the record, in fact, I would like to say that the government MPs, Mr President, of my constituency, instead of rejoicing with this regulation, were weeping with joint statements to the media that you adopted a fair proposal from a Member of the Civilian Police Officer. Why? In adopting this article and Article 59 which we are asking to complete Law 4280/2014, the possibility of mining inert materials, which will be used exclusively for the work of the vertical road axis of Egnatia, is being carried out from Ardanio, Mandra to Psathades. At the same time, however, a number of other projects have been approved in central and northern Evros, which are the category of the public investment programme and other programmes of the European Union, which are done either by accelerating the local region or by accelerating the local municipalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In order for these projects to be carried out, however, studies should be carried out. The studies had in the past predicted that the transport of solid materials would come from the local quarries. But you realise that the existing quarries operate between Alexandroupolis and Komotini. From Alexandroupolis to the north of the prefecture, we have a hundred and ninety kilometres away, and the transport burdens, Mr President, by 25% to 30%. You all realise that these budgets, according to the studies, are being jeopardised. And what are we asking? We call for the amendment and supplementation of the article which we have said about these projects and for you to be able to speed up, so that all the public spaces which have been classified as quarries can be restored, especially in the north and central Evros area. At the same time, however, there has been, in our timely question, a problem of being able to take material from natural deposits to deal with the injuries caused by the flooding effects that we had this year in the adventurous region. The problem in the past, Minister, was solved by a legislative act. She has now ceased to be in force. So you have a way. What are you gonna do? Will you modify and fill in Article 59? Will you proceed to legislation on the acquisition of fast track materials, so as to say raw, we really need it? Otherwise, we will have serious problems with regard to our projects in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-one students and students and an attendant teacher from the 8th Municipal School of Petroupolis. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Treasury, you mentioned the quarantine law. As you know, we now have unified latto law. There is a single system of provisions in relation to a fragmentary system that has existed in the past. There is streamlining of procedures and simplifying authorisations. At the same time, the whole process of defining quarries is being reformed. As you mentioned, this is a region's competence. We have also created the special regulation concerning the regional section of Evros, as you rightly pointed out, in the island regions, so that the distance to the thousands of measures to determine new quarrying areas does not apply, as far as the distance from approved settlements and settlements are concerned. On the issue you have raised, as regards the delay in demarcation of the quartz areas in Evros, there is nothing we can do. It's a regional job. We need to move on and demarcate these areas no matter how much time it takes. I suppose it's an activity in which we can't intervene. They must go ahead in order to have adequate and clear rules in operation. I recognise that there is a problem with the north and south of Evros. They point out to me, however, that there is another temporary latitude region, the region of Pylaea, which, in some way, covers, as an intermediary, the transport costs you invoke. There is therefore no room for us to take an additional legislative initiative at the moment, since the rules have been clearly laid down. Regarding your second question, there are short- and medium-term measures. The short-term is as follows. As you know, for what you are proposing to happen, as far as the deposition and damages that may arise are concerned, the procedure is a single one. Legislative act is adopted, in case we have damages resulting from extreme weather phenomena. If it joins there, all right. If it doesn't join, I think that from there on we can't do anything else. There is, as you know, an act of legislation until October 2018. So the Region and the Technical Control Directorate have the opportunity to proceed with the completion of the required projects. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In the medium term, however - and I stress this - the whole system of management of water resources has been in a new phase, having incorporated the European Union's directives. The RIS Special Secretariat has established and considered a special flood risk management plan for the Evros river basin. The adoption of the National Water Commission for this is pending. I think that is the new framework in which there will be management plans for all of the regions of the country. And that is, I think, the framework within which we will rationally move in the coming years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and three teachers attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Vronodou Chios. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I thought that, because it distinguishes you directly, you would take a position on our two problems. In northern Evros, 50% of the special public investment programme, worth EUR 26 million, will be implemented. If we transfer the materials from the southern Evros - and Pylia is in southern Evros - these projects will be charged by 7.2 million. They do not exist because they will be beyond what has been foreseen in the studies in question. Of course, all projects concern only road construction projects. The road network in the hurt triangle of the seventeen villages is bad. The road network - the regional, that is - from Orestiada to Kyprino has serious problems and without road signs, that is, vertical and horizontal, with a risk of traffic accidents. Also, on the road network of Twin-Ladis and Twin-Mexades, which are the two coastal road networks of the Red Sea, we have serious problems. That's why I'm telling you these works can't be done with a 30% hat. Yesterday I was visited by Mayor Souflios, Evangelos Poulios, who, while hearing that we have this timely question, gave me an example within the framework of the INTERREG programme of Greece and neighbouring Bulgaria: In the mountainous volume, he had a joint project, roadwork, near the border line, 1 million. The contractor requested 191,000 euros to carry out the work. He promised - by decision of the city council - that they would pay it from another source. These people are moving to the limits of legality, Mr President, and they are many times brave, but also many times they move to indictees. This problem is 'live' and we will have the same problem with all mayors, with all municipalities and with the periphery. You realise that what you said about the flooding phenomena, in fact, with the Evros basin flooding plan, the largest in Southeast Europe and third Europe, provides for a definitive location in terms of borrowings or, to use scientific terminology, for the recovery and maintenance of impurities. We cannot wait for the act of legislation. We're householders, and from the very beginning we ask you to solve our problems. As far as the borrowings are concerned, you have an obligation to do so. With regard to the quarry regions, they really want environmental studies, they want strategic studies, they need deadlines. But you have the signature and the signature of the state. You can bring relevant legislation, which gives the margin for using these quarries, so that we can secure the materials, because there is no other solution. We have other problems with regard to the illegal entry of inert materials from neighbouring countries. It does not provide a price for the Greek state to reach this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u35	I'll start with the second thing. We agree that the 2015 Act of Legislation applies. There is an extension procedure until October 2018. It is the responsibility of the Directorate of Technical Control of the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace to complete this project within the planned period. So we believe that the central government has set the conditions for answering this question. I now come to the question of inert materials and transport costs. You did not answer me, since there is an intermediate latitude area, Pylea Evros, because it does not cover this problem. That's the first. Secondly, the assessment of transport costs within Evros - from the south to the north - at 30%, as you said, which jeopardises the completion of a project financed by the Public Investment Programme, is perhaps a little excessive. In any case, starting to make exceptions from the law - as I said before, in the next year, we will have fully demarcated quarries - may not be the appropriate method toward a law which we voted on Genarris and which, at last, as most of the House agreed, set a new field in quarries, which also facilitates the operation of the quartz areas and the placement of new ones and the simplification of procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Minister, you are at one end of Greece and Mr. Pschakis at the other. Because you asked him a question, I'll give him the floor for a minute to answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. We're not saying to circumvent the law. However, because it is a universal demand for all the factors, but especially those of the people who are behind them, you can put all these quarries into operation and provide all the companies that do the projects and do not impose the Greek state and our citizens with extra costs for specific projects. You can also put a deadline with an addition so that the deadline for defining the quartz areas can be "run" without breaking the law. I think, Minister, that you have to do this. I'm not unfair. I didn't accidentally get to that point. You see I'm obsessed. I met you and gave you a note. You had your legal counsel with you and you told me that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Treasury, don't make another lecture now. We said to break the Rules of Procedure, but to some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I have also tabled a written question and now I insist with the timely one. I'm sure if you examine it, you'll find a solution. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u40	Me, too. I believe that as a Member of Parliament, he will see with sympathy...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u41	There's no such problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u42	You don't have one. That is why, Minister, you need to see the other side of Greece widely. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-25-S1-commons.u43	With the agreement of this House at 11 a.m., the sitting is closed next Tuesday 29 May 2018 at 11 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed.
