ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 22 February 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1109/20-2-2018 of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Mr. Dimitrios Gakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "In uncharted waters, amateur fishing in our country." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1119/20-2-2018 topical question of the Member of the Attica of the New Democracy, Athanasios Bura, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Restoration of the damage and reconstruction of the old National Road Elefsina - Thebe". 3. The Question No 1086/13-2-2018 by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The limits of the Imian sea region". 4. The question asked by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". 5. The 1114/20-2-2018 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Union - Rural Partnership”. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1110/20-2-2018 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Incorporation of incurable diseases into the Singleboard for the Identification of Disability Rates". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1120/20-2-2018 topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “They are “Hemorrhaging” financially thousands of ELKA insured from delays in harmonising how to pay contributions to the organisation”. 3. Under number 1088/14-2-2018, the current question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Awful intervention of the leadership of ELAS with regard to participants in the rally." 4. The 1115/20-2-2018 topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the workers at the 'Europe' press distribution agency. 5. The Question by MP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antoniou Gregos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "About the Greek National Minority of Skopje". 6. The 1117/20-2-2018 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection and safety measures for the life and health of workers in the shipbuilding sector". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 1106/16-2-2018 by the Independent MEP Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: ‘Low-up loans from the Turkish bank Ziraat to tobacco producers in Thrace’. 8. Under number 1076/13-2-2018, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Truthful damage to Crete in vegetable capital, public - municipal and private infrastructure, etc. - Direct compensation for producers and support for the affected - state of emergency". 9. Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Discussion and decision on the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and 144 Members of the Group's Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the ANEL Parliamentary Group Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Kammenos and 8 Members of the Parliamentary Group for the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution, 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and of the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Ministers, as applicable, for the possible termination of the offences of bribery and bribery and money laundering, according to the proposal, by: 1) Antonio Samaras, 2) Panagiotis Pikramenos, 3) Dimitrios Avramopoulos, 4) Andreas Loverdos, 5) Andreas Lykourenzos, 6) Mario Salma, 7) Spyridonas - Adonni Georgiadis, 8) Ioannis Stournaras, 9) Evangelos Venizelos, 10) George Koutromanis. In accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 155(8) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. The vote will take place at one reading of the list, be self-evident for each person and will take place in ten separate votes. Today's debate will take place in accordance with Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the generalised question. With regard to other procedural procedures, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents, the debate will begin with a first cycle of nine speakers, one of each parliamentary group and one independent MEP, with speaking time for every ten minutes, without a right of denial. He will first take the floor of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and second Member of the ANEL Parliamentary Group, who have tabled the proposal. We will then enter the speakers' speeches on the single list, pursuant to the provision in Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure, made up of a circle of speakers in proportion to the parliamentary power of the party they represent. The cycle will be made up of sixteen Members. It will be attended by six MPs from SYRIZA, three MPs from New Democracy and one MEP from the other parliamentary groups, as well as one independent MEP. The Parliamentary Groups have already submitted statements of speakers and a single list has been drawn up by the Service, in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties. The speakers and speakers in the single catalogue will be given the floor for five minutes, without the right to a second. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be the one set out in Rule 97(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the length of speech by the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Response will be up to twenty minutes, and the Presidents of the other six Parliamentary Groups will be up to fifteen minutes. The Ministers will speak for 10 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives will speak for 12 minutes, without prejudice to the limitation laid down in Article 167(2). Since the speech by the President of their parliamentary group takes precedence, they will only speak for six minutes. Under Rule 155(6) of the Rules of Procedure, during the debate on the proposal for prosecution, Parliament may allow the motion to appear before the person against whom the proposal is directed in order to hear his or her views. In any event, this person shall have the right to submit to the House a memorandum entered in the Minutes. The persons against whom the proposal is directed will speak for twenty minutes and, if necessary, there will be a maximum tolerance of three to five minutes. So they will appear before the House in order to hear their views: Venizelos Evangelos, Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis, Koutromanis Georgios, Loverdes Andreas, Lykourenzos Andreas, Pikramenos Panagiotis, Salmas Marios, Samaras Antonios, Stournaras John. The speech of the above persons will begin from the end of the speeches of the first cycle and will be completed before the beginning of the speech of the first political leader. Within this year, i.e. after the end of the speech of the speakers in the first cycle and before the speech of the first political leader, the sixteen Members of the second cycle will speak differently, the Parliamentary Representatives and the nine persons against whom the proposal is directed. The European Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos Dimitrios under letter No 849/16-2-2018 to the President of Parliament, informs us that he will not appear in Parliament's plenary and has submitted the memorandum number 877/20-2-2018, which is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and which is available to Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u2	Under Rule 155(8) of the Rules of Procedure, those of the above Members will not vote on the proposal to prosecute them. I would also like to inform the House here that fellow Members or members of the Government who are on a mission of this House or of the government abroad will vote by letter, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of this House. In this case before the vote, their votes will be delivered to the Bureau in sealed files. This folder will be enclosed in a larger envelope, also closed, which will indicate the number of the boxes for which it is intended. The second file will be enclosed in a larger third, also closed, which will also state the name of the Member or the member of the Government who will vote by written vote. The dossier will be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament. The rollout will be delivered by accredited colleagues from the MPs or members of the government who are to vote under Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. At the end of the debate, a secret ballot will be followed as provided for in Rules 73 and 155(8) of the Rules of Procedure. Finally, I propose that the debate be closed by 10 p.m. and then that the secret vote on the proposal be followed. Does Parliament accept the proposal I have read?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Tendia, would you expect me to finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u5	Madam President, will we not give an opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u6	I ask whether the House accepts the proposal as I read it. That's what I'm saying. You want to submit some requests. However, I look into what this House says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u7	To have a conversation first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u8	It's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u9	However, we do not have an answer to the 'admissibility' or 'unacceptable' before we give an answer! If you look at me on trial, and I hope you will give me the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u10	Shouldn't I announce the ten faces? I won't say anything else. I therefore have the honour to announce to you the nine main speakers, whose parliamentary groups and the Independent Members have indicated. It is as follows: MEP Mr. Nikolaos Paraskeviopoulos from SYRIZA, MP Mr. George Lazarides from the Independent Greeks, MP Mr. Mavroudis (Makis) Voridis from the New Democracy, MP Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou from the Democratic Compactor PASOK - DIMAR, MP Mr.Ioannis Lagos from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, MP Mr. Nikolaos Karatanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece, Voulios Georgiadis from the Union of Kentrons, MP Mr. Georgios Mavrotas from Potami and Bulgarian Mr. Dimitrios Kokotsis from the Independent Members. The groups have also indicated the following Members: The Group of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Konstantinos Dousina, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Diagnostopoulou, Mrs Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis, Mr Christos Karagiannidis, Mr Spyridona Lappa and Mr Theodore Dritsa. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis and Mr Konstantinos Javara. The Group of the Democratic Alliance of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - DIMAR on Friday (Everything) Christophilopoulou. The Group of the European People's Party - Golden Dawn The Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis. The Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) Party of European Socialists (Christian Democrats) Party of European Socialists The Potamian Parliamentary Group Mr Spyridon Lykoudi. Independent MPs Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor. Tell us what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u11	I would like to say enough, Madam President, but start from the first. The Conference of Presidents, as you have read us, took the decision to hold the vote, as you said, separately for each person and for a separate vote. And you mentioned, if my hearing hadn't cheated on me, the number 'twelfth'. Madam President, first of all, the decision of the Conference of Presidents, as you teach me, does not bind Parliament's plenary. The House can fully decide whether the decision of the Conference of Presidents is correct and whether or not we will follow it. Secondly, what we are debating here today, ladies and gentlemen, is the proposal of SYRIZA Members. The proposal of the SYRIZA Members, Madam President, is one and one. You could, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled ten or eleven proposals if you wished. I'll explain why I'm talking about eleven proposals. These proposals could also be in a text. But what we are discussing today is your proposal and your proposal is one and only. This seems to be clear from the proposal as you conclude, which you say in this context: "For this reason, we finally propose: a) For the above under 1 and 2 acts, which are mentioned above, not to prosecute criminal proceedings as a result of the expiry of the amortisation period laid down in the Constitution; b) For the above acts, under 3 and 4 acts, a Special Parliamentary Committee is set up to carry out a preliminary examination, in order to investigate the Parliament's competence to exercise or not related proceedings, and, if so, to confirm the jurisdiction of the judiciary." Nowhere in the text of the proposal, or in what I read to you - which is your conclusion - or in the whole text, there is no person specialization. There is, on the other hand, a reference to eleven persons, not ten, such as the number of minutes that the President and the decision of the Conference of Presidents has decided. In order not to account for what these are, I would like to say that the decision of the Conference of Presidents obviously does not include the Minister, Mr Kourublis. This decision is completely incorrect. It is completely beyond your proposal and completely beyond Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the basis of which, Articles 153 et seq., we are moving here. I would like to say to you a simple example, which the average person understands, because this proposal, as it is being introduced at the moment, cannot stand any criticism, not to say that it reaches the limits of each of the tens of them. If we assume, ladies and gentlemen, that this Special Inquiry Committee, which will carry out a preliminary investigation, has not produced a proposal for prosecution against anyone, then there is an eleven or twelve or tenth of them, what will it do? Will he bring the matter back here, set up three more polls, get permission to investigate the twelfth, twelfth and thirteenth? Where and how are we limiting the ten-mile committee? Like any average law-abiding in this country knows, this committee looks at things in rem. In other words, it looks at the case rather than the faces, and therefore it is essential that the House takes the decision of the one-stop shop and not the ten or eleven, as it should, of the captions, including Mr Kurubli, which the decision of the Conference of Presidents is trying to protect against it, and your decision seeks to memorize by its request. You could tell me, Madam President, not you, but the Members who have tabled this proposal: If they do not agree to the unequivocal position of the New Democracy, then the five Members who are in the Chamber who will speak or who in any case are concerned should not vote. This is self-evident and can also be regulated by the Bureau, as you have said, that it will not be voted on in the poll that concerns it. Therefore, this justification, if it appears, is absolutely pretextful. I'm ending up and ending. The present procedure is a particularly regrettable process of itself, because colleagues are being accused of being accused, but it is also the way in which it is imported and the way it is imported. The least Parliament can do to protect, firstly, the authority of its own, secondly, the authority of the parliament, thirdly, the dignity of Members and those who are wrongly accused, is to make a decision on one poll, to have a committee for which the New Democracy expressly states that on one poll it will vote positively and to conclude, once everything is investigated, in a safe conclusion on what has happened here. The attempt to squeeze suspicions in advance by the ten minutes and the qualifies as supposedly - I say again - not inquiring but guilt in the eyes of the public - because that concludes the method of the ten minutes - is for us, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely unacceptable. It is a question of principle for us and I am telling you that we will have a very strong response to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u12	Mr Teddy, you obviously want to use Rule 67 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and raise an incidental issue. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u13	Madam President, the word 'parallel' is not exactly what I wanted to say. Not at all! We are tabling a proposal calling for Parliament to decide whether or not to set up a Special Examination Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u14	Just like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u15	That is what we are discussing here today, namely the establishment or not of a Special Examination Committee, in your proposal, ladies and gentlemen. You have had the opportunity to put forward any proposals you want, but you could not and you did not dare to put forward another proposal. The only thing you dared in writing was the setting-up of a Special Inquiry Committee. Madam President, the House must decide on this as a sovereign body, that is to say whether it should be the only self-evident one: one poll.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr Nines, because there is nothing in Parliament's plenary session, specifically in this sitting, except to raise incidental issues - I also read you the relevant article, which says that it is all the incidental matter which arises in the course of the parliamentary procedure and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, prevents or affects the debate or decision on the main issue - so because that is 'ad hoc', I would like to call it that, first of all, to follow the relevant procedure. I would also like to ask you, Mr Tindemans, what Rule of the Rules of Procedure is being violated?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, first of all, I have the great pleasure of having a lasting dialogue with the Bureau today. If you ask me what article is being violated, I will answer directly that Article 155 is being violated, because, as the majority proposal is being introduced, we must, of course, go to one poll. You will not find it by reading the text, Madam President, because obviously the text does not provide for the proposal as formulated nor even mention one or ten polls. If this were to be said in the text, then there would be no question of a decision of the Conference of Presidents, but there would be a simple question of reading Parliament's Rules of Procedure. He understands that even a little kid. The Conference of Presidents, beyond the text of the proposal - because it is the text we are discussing - decided on ten polls.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u18	We heard that, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u19	I say again, firstly, that if he wanted to, he would have to decide on eleven ballots. Secondly, the proposal is completely illegal because it does not stand up to the proposal we are debating today. Do not seek to find it in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. There is no, Madam President. The decision of the Conference of Presidents we are discussing here and here on this decision, and we are putting forward another proposal - and not an incidental issue - which we say is that one of the pillars should be put in place here on an issue. The only question is whether or not the Special Committee is to be set up. Everything else is long gone. They are, you will allow me to say, the two-columns - not yours - of the majority. The majority is trying behind the ten-stage logic of creating suspicions of guilt in Greek society and we, Madam President, are not at all prepared to tolerate that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u20	I have given you sufficient time and you have tabled your arguments. Nevertheless, the Rules of Procedure provide that only by-catches can be discussed. The Conference of Presidents has made its decisions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. He did not use any other provisions and these could be mentioned if they were violated. In any case, Article 67 also identifies the time within which those who want to speak on the incident are speaking. On this basis, too, I will call on Parliamentary Representatives, rapporteurs or ministers to take up their positions within this particular time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u21	On it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u22	Now, Mr. Teddy. Of course, it is proposed as a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u23	Madam President, I would like the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u24	I would point out that the framework within which everyone should be placed is the Constitution, the Rules of Parliament and parliamentary practice, the parliamentary precedent. We are talking - thank God - about dozens of scandals that this House has investigated, how many polls this House has set and how many. And we're not coming today to discover America. I would therefore ask for coordinates, organised and in keeping with the time to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u25	There's a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u26	You will not answer me, Mr. Voridis, against this. I'm starting the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u27	We want to raise other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u28	The President of Parliament is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u29	Madam President, we want to raise other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u30	Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u31	Madam President, will you give us the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Athanasios, sit down now. Have a seat, please. The debate will be organised. If it is about this process to eat three hours, it is another issue and another option.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, we want to raise other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u34	I'll give you the floor. You'll talk. When you get the floor, you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u35	That's what I'm asking. Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u36	You will take the floor in the order of each party. The debate on an intervening topic has been opened. You can put another ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u37	I want to raise another issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u38	Have a seat, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u39	Will you get away with it? You won't get away with it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u40	Come on, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u41	Madam President, I would also like to inform the Members of Parliament, because they will speak, of the decision taken by the Conference of Presidents, which took place on the substance of the debate, on the incident which was raised today by the honourable Member. That is to say directly, quite rightly, that the matter raised is not exactly about one or the many polls. It is about whether there will be the possibility or the obligation - that has been put to the vote - that for each of the Members referred to in the case-file the choice of'super','superior' and'represent' or not. The main argument on the basis of which the proposal was finally voted for for all ten Members to be able to vote, regardless of the ten or one-th of them, is that no one can be denied the right to be in the proposal at long last, because the proposal requires, according to the Rules of Procedure, a hundred and fifty-one votes positive for someone to go and be examined by the committee of inquiry or by the committee of inquiry. So, if we went to the proposal and voted for all together, without a vote for each one separately, and again I say, regardless of one or ten of them, if we went to this proposal which was the proposal of colleagues, respected, with its arguments on the other hand, it would be compulsory for all ten to be in it, at the disposal of the committee as mentioned. While the Rules of Procedure are clear that this House and the procedure may be used for some of them, with all the elements of each party, which have already been in legal proceedings for several days to take account, for some of them, if necessary, of the result of the vote, of not being made available to the committee at the outset. We couldn't deny that to anyone. So that was the essence of the argument on the two proposals. That is the point on which we are moving forward, as you have quite rightly interpreted, Madam President. I wanted the parliamentary representatives to know this so that there would be a debate on the substance, in addition to the impressions that everyone might wish to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u42	You're wrong, Madam President. It's not like that. There's a rival.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u43	I propose that, because in accordance with Article 67 on intervening issues, two minutes of prototype and five minutes of dentistry are given time, to unify the time, so that you can have time to develop your views with a sufficient degree. I'll give seven minutes from the beginning, without a second. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u44	It's a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u45	They may not need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u46	I request the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u47	It's not a point of order, Mr. Kutsuko. What do you want? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u48	You asked us on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u49	Yeah. In seven minutes, Mr. Koutsuko, you will say about the intercepts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u50	Listen, to be informed from the outset: Because the procedure is very critical and here is not an emergency court martial courthouse, which we first decide and then order...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u51	Oh, no, Mr. Kutsuko, we're starting badly! Martials others did.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u52	You'll learn to listen. When you blame people and orders, you'll learn to listen. Well, I asked you to speak, Madam President, by addressing you and Mr Voutsi, to explain the simple thing, and I would ask the Members who have signed a paper, and the President of Parliament has changed it. We took the agenda last night.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u53	I read it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u54	Let me take note of the issue. It says on the agenda, therefore: "Convergence and decision on the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and a hundred and forty-four Members of the Group, Mr Kammenos and his eight Members..." It is this text, which has been signed by all the SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues, which I call a'mechanism'. What does he say in his operative, Madam President? ‘Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 as regards the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 as regards the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to In other words, we accuse them of committing the crime of infidelity, spurning them and muddling them, but we cannot expel them, it has been abandoned. "And b) For the above under 3 and 4 acts, namely bribery and bribery, in order to understand us, "to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination in order for it to be investigated", listen, ladies and gentlemen, what you have signed, "the competence of Parliament to exercise or not relevant persecutions and the negative possibility of confirming the jurisdiction of Greek justice". In other words, on the basis of your proposal, you wanted to set up a fast track procedure, which would consider that pre-inquiry is irresponsible and would re-issue the files to justice, while remaining sprinkling and mud against people. The President therefore comes to us with the agenda, which he shared after the Conference of Presidents' procedure, to propose to us 'a preliminary inquiry into the possible execution of the offences of bribery and bribery and money laundering'. Obviously, he means a normal pre-examination, which will call witnesses, hoodmen and not, he will call on the defendants to apologize and, of course, he will extend the subject with full responsibility. So the question, Madam President, to you is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u55	It's not a question. We don't have a dialogue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u56	Listen, I want to ask the question, and don't rush, you'll answer the end. You have the possibility of responding to anyone you want at any time from the height of the seat. So, Madam President, I say: will you propose the setting-up of a fully-responsible pre-responsible committee, which, in the process and time, we propose to be far-reaching, will in fact investigate the case or, on the basis of the original text, will we go to an express procedure? And by the way, I would like to add to Mr. Dendia's arguments, with the mistake he made of referring to eleven polls, that twelve should be the ballots...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u57	Fifteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u58	... because the press report on the file of colleagues: Kegeroglou, Christophilopoulou and Loverdos concerns the political leadership of the Ministry and was Mr. Xanthos along with Mr. Kourublis. So if you wish - which is wrong to us - the polls should be twelve. We, Madam President, in order not to deal with this House again, want to state, as our President and our collective bodies have said, that we want a preliminary inquiry into the substance of the matter in order to shine the truth. And we will go beyond the procedural terminology and methods, so that we can come to what the people really want, that is to say, to discuss the substance. So the question I put to you and it takes an answer to see whether we will have a normal pre-examination or a process of 'leafing' and 'health'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u59	Mr Kutsukouko, first of all, as you know, this will all be placed in the pre-request committee. How long it will take no one to know. There is, proposed time according to the law. From there it is extended, if there are issues. First and foremost, the fact that they will be invited to speak, if they want to, the ten persons being investigated, only you understand that there will be a specific procedure. How long will it last? It can last for a month. If it doesn't last a month and last longer, here we are, to ask for an extension. All the rest of you said, Mr Koutsouko, you have a great deal of experience, because you have repeatedly proposed preliminary scandals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u60	After exams!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u61	Please. Once there was a Committee of Inquiry in Vatopedia. The Lagard list was the Institutions Committee that dealt with it. There are no such legislations. And I also want to make it clear that this is not a court hearing, to tell us what the indictment is, what the indictment is. It emerges from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament that there is neither specific accuracy nor specific architecture. A fine includes all the proposal that has been tabled and the offences and persons and the particulars that exist and the evidence needed to document the proposal to set up a preliminary committee, which will only investigate any responsibilities. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u62	Don't speak, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u63	The Bureau cannot take a stand on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u64	Please! We shall speak here on the basis of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and parliamentary practice. We will not create a new case law. That is why there will be an organised debate. You will speak, Mr. Voridis, if you are appointed. Don't complain. Well, I'm therefore starting with Mr. Paradise. Here, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for seven minutes. No one raised any objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. I won't exhaust the seven minutes, I have much less to say. And I will say it if I am given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u66	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Athanasios, please, have you sent any paper that you want the floor, you won't get it! Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u68	On these two specific questions, therefore, which have been put to me to respond very promptly: Firstly, the issue dealt with here is not dealt with in rem, it is considered in personam. That is to say, it is not a single matter of public interest, such as the ones examined by the Committee of Inquiry, in order to examine a single issue here. Criminal responsibilities are being dealt with, we are taking the initiative of a pre-review committee, which has a criminal horizon, and therefore the responsibilities which are being dealt with here and which will determine the procedure to be followed are individual. Secondly, which relates to the same question, is that the number of calls is not dependent on the number of suspects, persons involved or accused on the charges, so that if they are ten the defendants and three or four or five the charges, we have fifty ballots. Basically, the number of molds depends on voters and the specific peculiarities that may relate to their own property and status. This is a clear matter. The point is to ensure the secrecy of the vote. If the poll is united, the one who has to vote for himself, because he is a member of this House and is involved - to use this word, is it good that we are now using - what will he do? If he goes and votes on the idea of a poll, without voting on something that concerns himself, then his status will be revealed. This technical issue simply wants to avoid the choice of ten candles. And there's no political or other motive beyond that. If there were no question of those who have a personal issue, such as this, there would be no question of ten polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Voridis, why do you? Mr. Dendias explained it. You want the floor, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u72	If you're kind, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u73	I put the suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u74	But unify the roles. Because if the parliamentary representative says someone and then the rapporteur comes, that is not the case. Last time. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. We don't want any comments now. This isn't the time. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. On this last point, to go directly to this: is Mr Kurubllis involved? The proposal shall take up a position on the elimination of expulsion. Is he involved? So why don't we have 11 polls? First and foremost question that, so we can get it over with. Answer: We don't have eleven ballots, because on the issue of Kurubli the proposal is the motion for a cover-up. That's why we don't have eleven balls. That's first. Let's go to second. But, since we're going to this, does this have any specific accusations? Let's reread. Its first position is to decide on the elimination of the point. I have a question there: To decide on the elimination of hindrance, should you not have diagnosed the timing of the act? Shouldn't you have diagnosed an act? How are you gonna decide? Without a preliminary examination to examine witnesses to diagnose these two elements? Why not? Because it's the House of Coverage here. That's why not. That's the first part. Let's go to second. What does your second proposal say? Does he have any charges? What are the charges? In this proposal you know that of the ten, eleven names mentioned in the transfer for five, don't you report? You don't say their name! Do you know which five? Evangelos Venizelos, Pikrammenos, Salmas, Lykourenzos and Kutromanis. You're not reporting. Not at all. There's no action. Are you guys on the rest of the charges? I mean, they did this bad thing. Oh, no. You simply take extracts selectively from certain elements of the file sent, a few extracts, and you refer to that. But we'll see about it along the way. But what does your proposal say? Then I come to the proposal for the recommendation. I read it to you: 'To set up a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination in order to...', listen to the mandate you will give to the committee, because that will give as a mandate, not something else, '... to investigate Parliament's competence'. There will be an interesting legal debate. I love legal discussions. But the House and the committee are legal forums, which we are going to say: 'Let it have the power of the House, or is it not?' That will be the subject of the debate. But I say that's what you want. Do you know why you want this? Here's the capital conduit. We're leaving the cover. Why? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't react, because you'll hear them more. Why? Why, since, of course, all this nice case-file has nothing - it has three hooded witnesses and we will see how they ended up hooded, why is that the most interesting of all - where can you dare make specific accusations? You didn't formulate them. Fine. Then the object here is one: it has competence, yes or no, the House to prosecute - that is, what? - related to the alleged bribery? And to say whether it falls within the concept of breach of duty, that is, the duty of the Ministers, or not. That's a good legal question. However, 'yes' or 'no' may be used to establish this committee which considers only the competence, Madam President, to be expressed with one ballot. Because here we don't have any charges. Because here we don't have faces. Because here we don't have personalization. Because, according to your mandate, here the only thing that will be done by this committee is a debate on competence. What do you want the ten balls then? In this question, which you put to the House, the noble Members of Parliament, there is a ballot with an answer: 'yes' or 'no'. The rest would like persons, categories, detailed description of the act. I've heard a very interesting point of view on the edge of unbelievable, but we're used to it. It says: 'No description of the actions is needed'. I read Rule 154(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure: 'The proposal for prosecution must clearly specify the acts or omissions which, under the law on the responsibility of the Ministers, are criminal and indicate the provisions that have been violated'. And obviously it is self-evident, because we would come here to launch charges and ask people to explain, without having told them what they are controlled. And we'll see along the path what you suspected of being checked, because they'll speak not on your own charge, which you didn't bounce, as the service collapsed at the time you planned it, but they'll speak on the basis of the case-file and not on the basis of the charge, as they shouldn't and they shouldn't. So the right position here would be a call, and that is based on your proposal, the proposal to make and cover up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u76	Well, Mr. Voridis, because you raised a few issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u77	I don't want an answer from you, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u78	No, no. It will be necessary as President to facilitate the debate, to read from the proposal, which you say is missing crimes. As you know, it starts on page 7 and 8...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u79	What crimes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u80	What crimes are you talking about? It's categories.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u81	Which is rendered, sir. Some crimes are being committed by the Prosecutor's Prosecutor of Corruption. Now leave the impressions. We're not going to fight impressions here. We will talk about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u82	We say that to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u83	Well, one and two are infidelity. 3, on page 8 of our proposal, refers to the crimes of bribery and bribery of officials, involving acts that have been committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u84	Do you not understand that you are President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u85	Time and place is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u86	Do you not understand that you are President of Parliament and cannot speak on the substance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Kikilia, aren't you a doctor? Sit down and tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u88	It is forbidden to speak on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u89	And the next one, it's about money laundering from criminal activity. Here, Mr Vorides, there is no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Maddash will answer me. I don't want you to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u91	No one gets up to ask anyone. The president's coordinating.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u92	He's coordinating. You don't coordinate. You're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u93	And it is precisely a matter for the President if he will even put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u94	Get off to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Voridis, read article 67, because it's no accident what I said. The President shall determine, on the basis of Rule 67, how the debate will take place and with what information.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u96	I want you to determine. You give us answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u97	Mr Vorides, neither you nor anyone else have the right to ask questions and answer them, whoever you choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u98	I didn't ask a question. I don't have any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u99	So please. There is no shortage of crimes on which you want to create the impression and on which you base your theory of practicing. Therefore, be careful, because we will not have unlimited time here, I will give the floor to the rest of us. I move on with the Democratic Reconciliation, which will obviously do the same. Mr. Koutsukos spoke. Now Mr. Papatheodorou will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u100	Madam President, Mr Koutsoukos raised the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u101	Don't twist, because if we start to rehabilitate, what the paper says, I think we'll have a five-hour lunch.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u102	Madam President, I am very pleased that you have given the expected answer to the question of what the Special Parliamentary Committee will do. But whatever the Rules of Procedure provide for. It is not so when the proposal is described, because, in fact, what is being introduced by the President of Parliament is what it is? This is the agenda - indeed it is what the Rules of Procedure have to do with the proposal. So you said, Madam President, 'But the offences are described.' Let's see, is the crime described? We believe that the proposal is completely insurmountable. She's also completely void. So the first offense, Madam President - I go with your logic and not mine - is described. It's infidelity. The second offence, Madam President, denounced by the three Members of the Democratic Union, is described? What you're telling us is being tampered with is being described? It is not described, Madam President, why you say to us, "...in any case, in connection with the acts mentioned in the document...", which you, fellow Members, do not know whether the actions referred to are unregistered!... that were sent by Members of the Christophilopoulou, Loverdos and Kegeroglou on the former Minister of Health, "P.”. What is the Minister of Health, a minor, and you write him with his initials? What is it? ‘P.K.’. Panagiotis Kouroublis, to get to know each other. Why do you write him with his initials? And where is the offence, Madam President, described here? Where is the offence that you then consider to be deleted? On the one hand, Madam President, while you think there should be a distinction between bribery and bribery, if it has been carried out in the exercise of the functions - you say in the proposal you have signed, that it is also illegal - on the other hand, if it is on the other hand, then justice has jurisdiction and the House does not. And you come to a proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, which says that there will be no Special Parliamentary Committee, as referred to in Articles 153, 154 and 155, with full powers of inquiry that will take the case from the outset, which will call for witnesses - protected or not, we will see - who will call on the defendants, who will also be able to call on other political persons, well-known or perpetrators of the preparation. And I ask you: will we go according to the proposal of the President-in-Office - why is he in line with his proposal - to a Special Parliamentary Committee which will simply discuss whether he has competence? And the best: In case of negative, what will it do? Will he confirm the competence of justice? Will the Special Parliamentary Committee go to confirm whether justice is competent for legality? Do you know what you're doing on the proposal? It's very wicked. You're telling us that one and two are offline. We're not going to deal with it. There's no criminal prosecution. The third, half, relates to specific persons, to those who will determine that they have been financed on an occasion rather than in the performance of their duties, as if there were a duty to take them, or have nothing to do with them if a former Prime Minister takes them. Funny! But you think that half of it is too far gone and we will not talk about it in your proposal? What are you talking about? That is why Mr Koutsoukos said: 'Do you want us to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee? Make a call to do it, for everyone inside, for all offences." Because that is what the Special Parliamentary Committee will do. What do you think? That we are going to have a scientific dialogue between Mr. Paraskevi, myself, Mr. Vorides and the others, to say whether the Special Parliamentary Committee has or does not have competence? As the President has said, the Special Parliamentary Committee is starting and has competence from the outset, to take things from the outset, with all the witnesses, and to see if they are protected and who protect them. This is the task of the Special Parliamentary Committee and not the conduct of a dialogue on competence. He's in charge. That's what we're going to vote on. If we vote on this, then, where the offences are not described - I repeat - because you do not know why P.K., Mr. Kourublis - I do not know if you know it, but it does not say it in - we should take them from the beginning, see if the period of 2015, since September, when Mr. Xanthos is Minister of Health, is being described or not - we should start the debate from the beginning in rem, that is to say, on all things in relation to persons. But this is where half of it is missing. Aren't faces missing here? And how do you know what the outcome of many of the people mentioned in the case-file is? So, Madam President, either the proposal or the agenda is valid. Both of you can't do it. You'll tell us, to start the conversation here, what's true of both. Secondly, you will tell us what the offences are. Some are indeed mentioned. But they're not mentioned at all. Others are referred to as being deleted. So, because here we all need to know what we are talking about today, we will start the debate from the beginning, we will start properly. I very respectfully request that the President of the Parliament, who has collected the majority proposal, be placed. You collected it, Mr President, because the majority proposal is not what is written on the agenda. You do it right. Write what the Rules of Procedure say. The majority proposal is to go to discuss two, three days in two, three meetings and send the file to justice. That's not how it's going to be, nor will the ballots be set up to smash faces...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u103	Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u104	...and then to say, "I'm sorry, that's what justice is, we don't have competence." These are trials we have met in the past and have a very dark historical report. This is where we'll talk about everyone and everything. Above all, however, not cannabis of the institutions, which are attempted by certain wings, not cannabis of procedures. You said we had to finish by ten o'clock. Why, Madam President? We are discussing one of the most important issues. Everyone knows that ten persons are referred back. Why should we shut it down in 15 hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u105	Please complete, Mr. Papatheodorou. Okay, we heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u106	I have completed, and I would ask you very much to have an answer to that from the outset, because that is what we are considering today. We want a Special Parliamentary Committee for all and all, with full powers of inquiry from the outset. And there are no guards. I guarantee you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u107	If there is not to be a protest again, I shall read Rule 67(7). ‘The President shall decide on the incidents. If objections are raised, the House shall decide on an extension or extension and without further discussion.’; Therefore, when I try to answer and sum up the framework laid down by the positions, it is my responsibility, as set out in Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure. I would once again like to say that the Rules of Procedure do not provide for any procedure other than by-catches. There's no audience here to object to the placement clerk. It's not a legal procedure. All of this can be said to the Special Parliamentary Committee, you can tell the Special Court, if they are referred there, if they go in any other court proceedings, to invoke them there. No right is lost. So it is not like pleas of nullity, which must be lodged immediately, so that the defendant does not lose his right. So please do not ask questions, because I will answer them. If you do not want me to answer them, do not ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u108	These are rhetorical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u109	We're on. Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u110	Madam President, the order must be observed!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u111	It's not legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u112	Yes, it's political. Excuse me. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u113	You're breaking the rules...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Athanasios, legal leave them, then. Do you want to speak legally, politically, whatever you want? You have representatives to speak. ..................................................................................................................................................................... Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u115	I will contribute to the process, Madam President, with the brief of my speech. I would like to say, in addressing the Communism - that is to say, the Government and the Opposition - that is, whether I have listened to the representative of PASOK, the Democratic Reconciliation or as he is now calling it - that you are not breaking legal science today, as a representative, a lawyer, said in the profession, but that you are breaking common sense, as is also a raper of political memory. It was January 2013 when in the debate and the proposal submitted by the Independent Greeks - then, of course, the Independent Greeks were in the opposition, there were no ministerial thugs, etc. We have also signed this request for a committee of inquiry, which concerned Mr Papaconstantinou, Mr Venizelos, Mr Papademos, Mr Papandreou, Mr Papandreou - the New Democracy government was in favour of the many lofts and the vote with many ballots, invoking both the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and the Constitution. And then there were hostage battles - I remind you - both in the Conference of Presidents and in the plenary. And then the opposition, government today, SYRIZA, and those who invoke the constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, were saying about a poll. So we see you reveal yourself in the eyes of the Greek people. And I will speak with people's wisdom and say that 'the weather has been filming'. Let's not hide behind our finger. The New Democracy, because it has a serious problem that the Group's parliamentary group should come together in the multiple vote - it is a celebration, I am not saying it, everyone knows it, and the New Democracy knows it - so it tries and speaks of a poll or invents the trick, 'yes' and we will leave'. No, dear. The vote has to be taken properly. The debate has to be carried out properly. We say that everything must come to light and, if some guilty persons are found, they must go to justice and pay. Until then, they are innocent, because for us the presumption of innocence applies, which does not apply to you all when it comes to Golden Dawn. And because the New Democracy dug its pit all by itself and fell into it, the hooded ones, the pseudo witnesses and the protected witnesses talking about goats in Malakasa slaughtered by the Hryssayites and other bullshit, are good witnesses, are they good guards, and when they talk about Samsonite full of money in Maximos' office, are they bad guards? Well, let's think about it. In conclusion, the ballots should be set up properly. Be eleven of the polls. Why are you covering Mr. Kurubli? Be eleven of the polls. We could say more polls, because it's not just the NOVARTIS scandal, it's the whole post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mean period...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u116	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u117	I don't know, Minister. Don't you come in too, dear. I don't know. That's another story. And don't interrupt me, because we know you and your role etc. Well, in this respect: normally to set up the polls, to make the vote normally, not to try in here to dynamise the debate, so that the House can become a mess and thus demolish the great scandal, the international scandal of NOVARTIS and the possible - presumption of innocence, I repeat - the involvement of political persons, the eleven political persons. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that, under no circumstances, for us Greek nationalists, this scandal, the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, cannot be the curtain that will cover the growth and betrayal plans of coexistence in all our national issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, sixteen students and a teacher from the School of Law of the Armed Forces. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You'll hear a lot of legal today. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-four students and students and two their teachers from the 7th Keratsini Municipal School. The House welcomes them. Mr. Pallis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Our position is - as we have said from the outset, without any illusion - that the case must be investigated to the end. And I say 'end', and I insist, because we have a precedent for the Papantoniou case, which ended up turning it into justice. It was, in a sense, not ridiculous, but it was not serious. Although you were all aware of this, you went to the Special Parliamentary Committee and no one said 'no', nor did PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u120	It's compulsory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u121	Leave that now, Mr. Lapppa. We know. Every day, legal interpretations are heard. Your people are making an interpretation, the others are making a different interpretation, the others are making a third. Every day we're legal interpretations. We're actually going. And the essence is - what the JRC says - that the procedure will normally go to the end. The games that are played and are known and we see them from you - I mean from the government - from the other parties. Political games, legal or unfair, are known. We have many years of experience. We had a lot of exams here. What did they get? Don't say. Two and one, three. That was all of the years. We are therefore saying that the procedure will normally go, whether or not there have been offenses or not, not only for those who are referring but also for those who come along. And if some people are meant, firstly, not to bring witnesses, here the hoods will come out and the tricks will leave them. Read what you were saying when the law passed in 2001 for witnesses with the hood. We are consistent. Even in trials of another kind, we were unable to examine such witnesses. And everyone understands what I mean and what trial. So we'll go, we'll call witnesses in the process, if other people come from any party, be enlarged and come out on a final result. If - I say - there is a cause for closure, we are not going to participate in such a theater. And we say it clearly. If there is - I say - such a target.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u122	So you're suggesting a caller.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u123	Secondly, how do we understand it and how it should be? But should I tell you something first? The Greek people and those who are watching, with all these legal terrestrials and as you have made them - because you have made them - in the investigation of the scandals, they do not find any sense. So what do we say? Ten faces are reported. Are they guilty? We say 'no, they examine if they are'. Are there others? Why aren't they suggesting? Instead of ten, let's be eleven or twelve. Such a proposal has not been heard. We have no objections to be eleven and twelve and fifteen if they arise. At the moment, however, we cannot do anything different and I do not understand why so much noise. It's always like that. Everyone will have the right to say 'yes', 'no', 'no' and 'no', and the Special Parliamentary Committee starts looking at everything, and all that has been deleted and everything else. For for us it doesn’t matter whether the laws allow for the omission of offences committed by ministers or others. That's not the point. The point is to open up a whole. This is a serious matter. And, as long as we can, we will contribute, so that the Greek people know what is going on with these scandals. Because the biggest scandal is that health and medicine are in market gambling. And that's what you all support, supporting the system. She's dying because she doesn't have to pay. He's getting better because he's got to pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u124	We've done the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u125	They become animal animals all over the world and you support a system that fate and life itself is not at the hands of the private initiative, but of the multinationals, the big ones. We therefore raise this issue. As far as the others are concerned, it's a mess. There are classified documents, which are first written by the newspapers and then learned, as is justice. Who's doing all this? It's all already out, it's out. So, with this position, we can move on. Otherwise, we have no appetite and no desire to participate or take responsibility for a theater that will prove itself in the course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. From interpretations, we are indeed full. And so far all the interpretations of the anti-population parties have led to the cover-up and overthrowing of all these things, which have hurt the Greek people, put the country in the memorandums and destroyed the economy and society of the country. We say that the process will continue properly. And with regard to this insistence on whether the polls are to be the ten or one, I have to say that each of these colleagues who are to hear today about possible criminal responsibilities will give his opinion separately. Not everyone is collectively treated. Everyone is tabling their opinion, so we are listening to them and shaping our opinion. One does not submit one's opinion for all ten. So we will listen to them separately, because everyone is a separate case, but, when voting time comes, we will vote in a ballot and treat everyone as one person? I think that is absurd. Because, in fact, everyone is a different case, the time periods are different and we will listen carefully to each of our colleagues, which is why I agree with the procedure and we rightly have ten polls. After all, this is something that has happened in the past. I would like to remind my fellow Members of the case with the three ballots. In fact, I have here and the Minutes of the House since January 2013. And that was agreed by the New Democracy and the PASOK. Do you want to go back to the Baptist case? Six balls, didn't they stand here? Why didn't these two parties react? So here we are talking about a hypocritical behaviour, which has the effect of doing what these parties have used to us from the past. Procedures for the creation of impressions began and then through procedural terminals, the result was, instead of illuminate assumptions, sketch them and continue to hurt the Greek people. Thank you, Madam President. We agree with the procedure as it started.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Georgiadis, will you take the floor from the Centro Association?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u129	No criminal prosecution, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Athanasios, don't answer, just restrain yourself. They're familiar with this, anyone can see it. You don't have to do this. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. As you can see, so far we have been eating time in the process and substance zero. And it is very likely that we will simply end up talking and there will be no substance, like in the Papantoniou case. The truth is that we are currently relying on obscene and vague accusations and we cannot in any case call hooded people who are protected witnesses. To be protected right now, they are likely to be trustworthy, because that is how justice has been judged and, secondly, they have to reveal things for which their own life may be at risk, so the characterisation of hoods better not be used. The time will come when they'll be revealed and spoken. But here, this thing we're talking about, looks like you're dressed as magicians and pulling aces out of the sleeves, each government set up on the opponent's corner, waiting when he's going to make the mistake, get a case to characterize him. So as if there's a tweezer and hold the other man's hand, when he's gonna set him up in the corner to give him a charge. We are in favour of everything in the light, but in the right process and as it should all come to light. It is right at the moment to ask whether and whether and whether or not the committee will be there, but we are going to go see about the people who will be examined in the committee before we have even agreed whether the committee will be done. In other words, one call must be made for the committee to be set up, and that is a given fact - unless we consider that the committee is a given one and we do not have to vote for the committee to be set up - and then everyone should be in the process. I can't understand why someone with 20 minutes of speech can convince someone else not to vote for him. Do you want to get in that someone should have the right not to be examined? Make a roll-call vote to get everything out of the light and who wants to protect who and who wants to blame who. Not ten secret balls. Separately and nominally for everyone. And, indeed, right now, we're not even talking about names. We're talking about numbers. Mr Amyras also mentioned it at the Conference of Presidents. It's everyone's name. We are voting for a particular man, not for a number. And I don't understand why we have to protect some. I'm afraid he'll be back in the middle of this case. Proceed with the procedure, but on the substance of the matter, start the committee, get everyone out front and be interrogated, examined - as you will call it - but on well-founded accusations and not on caffeine-type discussions. To be thorough, scientific and evidence-based. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u132	Mr. George Amyras has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we say 'all in light' or 'all in light', we mean it or it's just a candy, so as to pour ashes into the eyes. All in the light and for the NOVARTIS scandal as such. I remind you of more than four thousand doctors were on the payroll of "NOVARTIS" and according to foreign publications another fifty thousand Greek doctors are connected to other pharmaceutical companies. So we are very much interested in seeing the issue of medical expenses and the association of doctors with the company. But we are of course interested in seeing if there is any involvement of political persons. However, how will we do this when, for example, the proposal of the government majority of SYRIZA - ANELs, while persons arise from the case-file, which one of them is also Mr Kurubl, but has the government majority decided 'has been banned'? So, are we, ladies and gentlemen, going to look into this? Aren't we going to look into it politically? I am not saying that Mr Kourublis is involved, as is none of the others. That will be shown by the research and the process. But the government majority cannot follow the doctrine “Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks”. Yes, Mr. Kurublis refers to the case-file, P.K. That is, not even his name and surname. You don't put it in writing, but the pre-inquiry for the other ten people should look into it. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, to take out a executive of yours, citing limitations. So, what are you telling us? You're telling us he might be responsible, but was the offense dropped? I do not support that. I support, however, that this pre-examination committee should have full powers of inquiry, that it should reach the issue from alpha to omega, without restrictions and, of course, without the manipulation of justice. The SYRIZA - ANEL proposal is clear. He says that "at the moment we are meeting to decide to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee in order to investigate the power of the House to exercise or not to prosecute them." Where do the names come from? It results from the case-file. I'll talk to you again. Why do you take Mr. Kurubli's name out? It's either in or nobody! I would point out, as I said in the Conference of Presidents yesterday, that the ten or eleven separate ballots pose a risk of turning, as in the wild West, into ballots with each's name on and below, a 'yes'. And take out the numbers. Why do you put numbers? Put names underneath a "wanted", make sure we're looking for those and the right people. So, ladies and gentlemen, we in Potami are saying a call to decide whether or not to pre-examination and not to pre-empt the yarn from a zero base and to look for it if it is Mrs Christodoulopoulos on the list and whether it is Mr Amyras, whether it has been abandoned or not. So we will only give a message to the Greek society that we really want to get to the light of truth and not to the altar of a small-party and pre-election arena and whoever the grace takes. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the House and its procedures for the rapid investigation of the scandals are not renowned, as the President has said earlier, nor is regular justice for issues that concern us. Since 2016, what has been done with the 'NOVARTIS' file that the prosecutor is looking for for doctors? Have you heard anything? Will anyone tell us? We'll find out? So, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we say 'all in light', a pre-examination with full powers of inquiry, to search for the first to the last citizen of this country, numerically and not qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u134	That is not what an Independent MEP is going to talk about. So I think they can tell them later in their locations. For reasons of equal treatment, Mr Mandash is asking for the floor, since everyone has spoken and Mr Paradoxopoulos has spoken for two minutes. But please be brief, because we are finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u135	There's a problem with the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u136	The whole system's blocked. This technical problem takes time. We're gonna take a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Ladies and gentlemen, sit down. It wasn't a problem after all. Rehabilitated. Mr. Madas has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u138	Madam President, do I have the floor? But that's not how it works. Have a seat at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u139	Please, everyone you're at the door, get out. Get out if you want to talk. Mr. Apostle, please. Be quiet, please, and sit in your seats. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, first of all I would remind the House that we would not have this debate if we did not have this article 86 of the Constitution, which describes how these procedures are being carried out. And this article of the Constitution, like the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, has signatures and names and policies. We have this debate precisely because it comes from Article 86 of the Constitution and from the law on the responsibility of Ministers. That's the first. The second point is that it does not seem from anywhere that the initiation of the preliminary examination procedure by a special committee of Parliament requires a detailed indictment. This will hardly be the case in the second phase, i.e. in the conclusion phase of the preliminary committee. That is what is happening here is in the position and is like the indictment, legality or other form of complaint, reference, etc. That is exactly how the proposal of the government majority is structured. All the others about cover-up, the construction and all that is heard in this Chamber are simply trying to put procedural terminology in the process of moving forward. And all those who really want to come to light should not claim what they claim. I would also like to say two more facts. The first element - Mr Paradoxopoulos said before - is that secret voting must be guaranteed. It cannot be ensured otherwise unless there is a clear statement from the Members involved, who are active and who are recorded in the Minutes of the House. So what should we see exactly? Not to see what Prospective Opposition says, a 'yes' or 'no' in the preliminary, but we could probably see a list containing the names mentioned in the request of the parliamentary majority, with the names 'yes', 'yes', 'no' and the possible offences. From there on, there is also a second thing, which the President of the Parliament pointed out, and I would like to point out that. How will it be determined who will be referred to this special parliamentary procedure in the preliminary procedure? How can it be ruled out before it is possible that some or others may not be referred to this procedure? Therefore, and I conclude, Madam President, I think it is absolutely clear that no procedural term, no procedural trips, which are mainly attempted by the police, cannot be accepted. In this respect, we support our proposal as it has been tabled, we support the content and substance of our proposal and of course support the decision of the Conference of Presidents as tabled by the Bureau. And we see in the procedure, in relation to what we have said, if there are indeed clear positions, which will be recorded in the Minutes of Parliament, from the five of the ten Members who are also active. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of fifty-two students and students and four educational sessions from the 4th General High School of Nea Smyrni. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On this point, because, as President, I have been following all the positions carefully, I wanted to say: there is, as I said, a parliamentary practice of years on how to vote. I am starting, and not long ago, from the PASOK proposal a hundred and eight MPs against Mr Marcoyannakis and Mr Paloskoufi for infidelity. Then, on 25-8-2011, there were also two ballots in the vote. In Batopod, the proposals were of course many. It was PASOK's, that others wanted, Mr. Bassiko, Mr. Duke, Mr. Near for infidelity, etc. And because the people were six, because together were Mr. Vulgarakis, Mr. Kiltides and Mr. Russopoulos, we had six ballots and six ballots at the same time. Also on the Lagard list, we had three different proposals from seventy-two PASOK MPs against Mr Papaconstantinou, from seventy of SYRIZA against Mr Papandreou and Mr Venizelos and, thirdly, from ANEL and the Golden Dawn against Mr Papaconstantinou, Venizelos, Papandreou and Papademos. Then we also had four ballots, because there were four explorers, and four ballots. I therefore call on, on the basis of previous experience, at least as regards the placement of Mr Treasury, who was placed only on the lists, to recognise this parliamentary practice, this parliamentary precedent that exists in this House. On the other issues raised in relation to vagueness, with the voidity, with everything that has been put forward in relation to how the proposal has been drawn up, I would like to say to you - other speakers have said so, but in any case, very briefly - that Article 86(3) of the Constitution says: 'The proposal to prosecute at least thirty Members'. What does that mean? That the proposal to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee and the proposal to prosecute are identical. There's no creation of pre-inquiry without prosecution. It's not a moonlight, it's got a specific content. Therefore, in relation to this, I think that we cannot discuss it any longer, but also in the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and in particular in Rule 154(3) of the House, it is noted that 'the proposal to prosecute must clearly identify acts and omissions'. In this particular proposal, which has been based on the transmittal, sent by the prosecutor to make this clear, he also has ten political persons. It states in particular 'transmission of procedural documents under Article 86' and states all ten - I do not want to repeat them for good reasons - for the transactions for which they have to be investigated, has bribery, passive bribery, infidelity, etc. It also says that, among the documents transmitted, there are also the 21-2, 8-3 and 13-4 reports by Andreas Loverdou, Vassilios Kegeroglou and Eve, which allegedly suggests that the operation of the non-invoicing of medicinal products and the increase in annual pharmaceutical expenditure for 2015 has been concluded by the Minister of Health, so, for subsection (c) of that act, i.e. infidelity. If, ladies and gentlemen, a number of Members, and at least thirty, wanted to set up a committee of inquiry, a special parliamentary committee, to investigate any offences that Mr Kurublés has committed, he should have put it and not today to blame the government, which was based precisely on the transposing of Ms. Prosecutor for Corruption, to speak of cover-up, construction, etc. In any case, I would like to end by the fact that all that we are discussing here as incidental issues, since we do not agree - because everyone has taken the floor and raised different objections to each issue - I would like to say that they were placed up to the protected witnesses, but without analysing our legal framework, which has two categories of witnesses, the protected and the witnesses of the public interest. In the first phase, when it's a protected witness, there's no need for any approval. When it's in the public interest, it needs approval. All this, because a confusion has been created. In any case, before I finish my position to vote, I would like to ask, because it is provided for in Rule 67, whether one of the Ministers wants to speak. Nobody wants to. We therefore proceeded with the vote because I, from the Bureau, found that there are objections and disagreements with regard to the incidental issues, which were raised almost all of my colleagues, except for some exceptions. The vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u142	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u143	Staff? Nobody mentioned you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] No, Mr. Athanasios, we have to finish. The President shall therefore decide on the intervening matters. I said my opinion. If objections are raised, the House shall decide whether or not to raise or extend the matter without further discussion. I'd like you to get up, because it's easier for me to understand. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I do not give the floor to Mr Athanasios on staff. He'll take him to the conversation later. What do you want? To what is the staff? They don't need backup. Mr. Dendias said it well. Say it again, Mr. Dendia!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u144	Madam President, there is one issue. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You'll see, you'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Athanasios, if he has staff, he'll say it later. This procedure is not provided for personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u146	You're wrong. All channels are playing it. Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u147	Tell us, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u148	You want to vote first?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u149	If you want, yes. Do you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u150	No, I'm sorry, I don't want to keep you any surprises.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u151	I can do it after the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u152	Mr Athanasios drew to me, as a parliamentary representative, a copy of the minutes of the House, where he recorded the following: "PRODERYUS (Anasia Christodoulopoulos): Mr Athanasios, leave them legally. Do you want to speak legally, politically, whatever you want? You have representatives to speak." And from below: '...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u153	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u154	That's in the Minutes. Mr Athanasios is therefore entitled to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u155	Please, Mr. Treasury. As President, I have mentioned very specifically. I didn't raise him, I didn't question...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, explain it to Mr Athanasios. You don't have anything with me. I explain to you why he deserves humanity when he was sent by you... to take the floor. It's obvious. It's in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u157	It's in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u158	Gentlemen, look at this, we can...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u159	Madam President, it's simple. You can say this is a misunderstanding...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u160	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u161	...and ask that the phrase be deleted from the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u162	Apparently that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u163	...and explain to Mr. Athanasios that you honor him and you completely suspect him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u164	That's how I'm gonna end it, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u165	And it's over here. But with this registration, what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u166	Firstly, I did not hear it, as I think no one heard it. However, the Minutes have heard it. I'm not questioning that. So I call for it to be removed from the Minutes, as whoever said it was not just misfortune and rude, but anything else. So to you, Mr Athanasios, I said that for legal, political and whatever else you want, you have representatives. There are no speakers in the procedure referred to in Article 67. Please do not use anything to widen the speaker cycle. I won't, not because I have any personal reason either with you or anyone else...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u167	Madam President, you will give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u168	Say what, Mr. Athanasius? You know you won't apply it one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u169	You'll give me the floor for a minute. I won't speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u170	You won't apply it, let us move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u171	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u172	We also have the possibility of voting if you do not want us to hold it for some reasons that have to do either under conditions that will arise or with anything else, before the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u173	Madam President, you will give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u174	On the basis of the positions, because I have not heard anything more specific, nor on the lists, nor on vagueness, I have to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u175	Madam President, that is not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u176	If, however, there are grounds for saying that, until the end of the speaker's circle and before the start of the vote, there are new conditions, I can postpone the debate, because I am not bound by the Rules of Procedure when I have to do so. But that's what someone has to make sure of me. Not to give extensions for no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u177	Don't give up on that. Do not disorientate the debate. You'll give me the floor to call back later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Athanasios, such a tenacity, I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u179	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u180	But I'll turn you off the microphone. I'm telling you right now. Okay? To be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u181	Madam President, we have a very good cooperation in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, we have a mutual assessment and we are working very well together. What you're doing now is unacceptable. I know the interventions I made have been annoyed and this whole process of witnesses has been discovered. That bothered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u182	In any case, I because I know you and appreciate you, you will be withdrawing now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u183	It is simply a legal matter to which you have referred. There's nothing. I advise you to read the laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u184	You'll call it back. As far as bypassers are concerned, you're wrong, because you're going with the first verse, while...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u185	Please, gentlemen, I know what I have to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u186	It is a pity, it is a disgrace to Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u187	He wanted a minute on staff, he said nothing, but we heard him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u188	It is a disgrace to Parliament what is being done! Madam President, you should have given the floor. There are violations of certain articles, and that's why I wanted to speak, which you can't either go through the procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u189	We've been through this, Mr. Athanasios. I said it wasn't the hearing, it wasn't the procedure. We've been through this, yet you've been talking. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u190	You have good partners. Whether it is a question of procedure or an incident, all Members speak. You've made a mistake, and Mr. Voutsis has made a mistake in his interpretation. It's wrong. It's two stages. That bothered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u191	Okay, you'll use them as cancellations in too many stages from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u192	You didn't want to hear it. Another is foreplay, and another is prosecuting. It's two stages.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u193	Okay. We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u194	Will you withdraw? Did you call it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Athanasios, you're done. Your time is over. Let go, please. We are going on until someone tells me that they prefer to vote afterwards, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having previously participated in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation, nineteen students and students and a teacher from the 15th Municipal School of Amarousi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] There is nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore ask you with a stimulus, so that you may not appear and that there is no question, if you agree, that we accept the incidental issues or not. Pleasant please rise. [[Receivables]] It is clear that the majority has placed itself on the specific issues that have been raised. We're on the list of speakers. Let's talk about it again, so there's no misunderstanding. The first circle of speakers has ten minutes. I begin on the basis of the announcement I made before, that the spokesmen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks will first speak, because they have submitted the application and then follow the other parties, according to the power they have in this House. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a pleasure to have this debate, which will work for a long time, both for Parliament and for the governance of the country and for the Greek society, to begin with an elementary understanding of the big issue. Are we talking here about a corruption scandal or are we talking about a construction? I think that the answer to this question is diffuse, is a response by all the Greek people, who knows what was happening with some medicines and everyone knows it, every middle-class citizen. The most - very - someone who had such financial comfort that he does not look at what he is paying, he did not realize the size of a corruption scandal. Let me say this. In what we have to organise as the basis of this debate, perhaps the issues are two. One is whether corruption has really existed, which is obviously one demand from this debate and, secondly, if there are any persons, some politicians - that is what we are talking about here - who have criminal responsibilities for money, bribery, infidelity or anything else. I would like to say that only on these two issues, in my view, the time in the order of speech, if you will, but also the reasonable priority, has the objective issue of corruption in the field of medicine. Why? Because if corruption has been, it is easy to understand that some have benefited. If corruption did not exist, it would be a juncture, which might or might not have happened. There is corruption or not, the Greek answer is given. We know the price escalation between 2000 and 2010 and public expenditure, that it reached 2% and was twice as high as the European average. We know that then public expenditure, after 2011, began to fall due to the troika, which imposed some commitments on us, but the total expenditure was not reduced, because the financial burden went to the citizen. Of course, we know from all this research that has been carried out by the social experience, not only the evolution of total figures but also the tricks, overpriced prices, non-negotiating prices, company compensation and everything else at the time. What I want to say here, however, is that the enormous importance of this matter is not just national. In my opinion, it is global and is linked to a turn of capitalism, which I think I can possibly describe in less than one minute. By 2000, capitalism, which we know, is interested in expanding markets. Conservation of consumers means less revenue for the market. Approximately then, it seems that many powerful multinational companies - and I think that this is also the case with pharmaceutical companies, not all - are able to obtain more revenue, addressing expensive products to less rich people, that is, people who have the comfort of paying, rather than expanding their markets and going to Africa and South America without purchasing power. They don't need much medicine for yellow fever to share it with the millions of people who are sick, because they don't have purchasing power. We go ahead with expensive medicines that we give to a few by overpricing and also many times by making medicines, which are not necessary. This shift, in fact, is historic in capitalism. Because since then, we have seen these price-built policies and, in addition, social exclusion is beginning to be inconsistent, market outrage even countries and enlargement is not generally concerned. Now, after what concerns the substance, we have to say a few words on the Rules of Procedure, namely the possibility and the obligation of the House to consider this issue. Under the Constitution, Article 86(1) only the House for acts which have been carried out by politicians in the performance of their duties has the power to prosecute. If, then, justice finds something without delay, it sends the case-file to Parliament. What does the House have to do? In accordance with Article 86(2), it should itself decide on prosecution, interrogation, or whether the act or what is stated is manifestly unfounded, to eliminate criminal liability. How's he gonna do it? If a proposal is tabled by at least thirty Members, then the plenary, if it does not consider that something is manifestly unfounded and does not even need to be examined, is a parliamentary committee for preliminary examination. In other words, in our opinion, a preliminary examination is needed, because Parliament's competence to deal with this is apparent - that is what the Constitution says - only if the actions of the policies were carried out in the performance of their duties. This House needs to examine it with the preliminary committee to see if it has competence. Indeed, if some acts have been carried out in the exercise of the tasks of policies in an earlier period than those set by the Constitution's amortisation deadline, then they have been eliminated. So it's clear that the Constitution. Is constitutional regulation correct? Is she right? In our opinion, no. The Prime Minister has said so too. Many have objections to the content of the constitutional regulation, and of course we call for its revision and, indeed, for it to be a priority issue. Is the Constitution applicable? Obviously, yes. The last citizen knows that, too, we know that, we have sworn to implement it. What, then, can arise from the pre-review committee? Or eradicate whether the acts are old and subject to the amortisation deadline or that the acts have not been carried out in the performance of the tasks, so they must be sent back to justice so that politicians can be judged by justice, such as the public. Is this dilemma acceptable to us? No - I would say - it is not welcome, because we here would like to deal with it. But that is our dilemma under the Constitution. Now, as regards what they say and what it sounds, we have a rain of procedural and technical objections, which remind the proverb: "When the bride doesn't want to ferment ten days she sifts." We are not dealing with the substance of the case and the House is constantly confronted with various technical dilemmas. We have also heard about disorientation, of course, in connection with the creation of this issue. Other issues have been raised, such as how the same politician, etc., knew that. Of course, we are talking about issues that were known to everyone, even through statistics and ELSTAT and European statistics. I would say that these procedural objections against the procedure were also brought to bear by a number of sues. I shall refer in particular to the appeal of the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, for the following reason: He sues protected witnesses. I'll say it's natural. A defendant, a person involved, a man who listens to serious charges by witnesses, reacts. Well, it's only natural. Prime Minister sues Prime Minister. Is that natural? No, it's not. It's rare. I would say that this phenomenon is known as graphics. In many police departments and in many prosecutors there are various complaints that are somewhat bored with lawsuits against Prime Ministers, etc. But that is neither graphic nor, of course, the prosecution against the prosecutor. That, in my opinion, is creepy. Of course, here, we can see an exception method tomorrow. The point, however, is that these kinds of reactions affect the rule of law and security over time. Because they also give a message: Be careful, Mr Prosecutors, you will not say what you want. You won't play with us. When you're messing with us, you're going to face our message. Of course, we remember a lot of discussions in this House on matters relating to interventions against justice, the government, SYRIZA and so on. This is not just an intervention. Here we have a fear of justice, not to dare to carry out its duties, as is foreseen. Besides, what was foreseen here? When a political name is mentioned, it is brought to the House without delay. And that's what happened. Of course, we have heard a number of other objections and requests so far, such as coming here to testify the witnesses, who are called devaluation hoods - even though the existence of the institution of the protected witnesses we all know how much we need it for safety reasons - to suffer a bowling, as has been said, or to understand who they are from their stature. Another may have a height of 2.05. Another may be short and fat. We'll see his soup and figure out who it is. And here the institutions are being offended over time, and there is a risk that they will not dare in the future to have protectionist witnesses in serious cases, so that we will again have a security problem and a problem of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Paradise, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u198	I shall end in a minute, Madam President, if I may. What is Parliament doing today against all these objections and voices? He does what the Constitution says. It brings this matter to plenary and proposes that a preliminary committee should be set up to examine whether it has its own competence, so we are eliminated or not, so the cases will be tried by the ordinary court. Why should a pre-examination committee consider this issue? Because if there is money laundering, there are issues which also have a real dimension. In other words, we need to see the real issues in this case and it has been done. The House must know about this in order to give its opinion on the establishment of a Special Court or on the relinquishment of legal proceedings. I think that all the government MPs want the country's rule not to be regulated by the courts, but by the people with elections. We want honest governments that produce politics and justice to punish corruption. Therefore, our aim is to fight corruption with the Constitution in hand as a tool. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u199	Please have a diligence in time, because we have determined the duration and we must not leave it. Mr. Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks, also for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for some time now, since this case started, as it usually does - and it knows how to play this game - the opposition has shown that it has been amazed at these revelations around health. In health there was a big party at the expense of citizens through the mechanisms of medicine, hospitals, care, etc. It's something that the whole world admitted. Even in the last atrocious village of Greece everyone was talking about the party that took place in health. And it came up at some point and was revealed because of an investigation carried out in the United States by the FBI. And the opposition does not contribute to falling abundant light, so that all citizens can be informed and, on the other hand, the citizen can stop questioning the political system, because what has been affected beyond the lives of the citizens, beyond the country's economy, is the political system because of precisely their policies. What's happened? There was an entire party. In our homeland, because Greece was a reference country and from the prices that were formed in Greece, there were thirty other countries affected, there was a party that was fed or triggered, if you wish, by some "capers" - so we call them - by the pharmaceutical companies that found some people politically - we will examine all of these - or some officials from ministries who were, however, covered by political persons and praising prices accordingly. Now everyone says unconscious. In other words, when the Minister responsible for Health signed and proposed a price and saw that, with that price we were going twice - I am talking about the burden on GDP - from the other European countries, did the Minister suspect that something was happening? When this paper went to the Treasury Minister and saw it and he didn't suspect anything was happening? And when he then went to the Prime Minister and didn't he suspect that something was going on to get twice as much as the other countries? And when he arrived in the House to be voted on in the budget, no one suspected there? Things happen and all Greeks should be very naive to accept that no one suspected anything. In fact, the fact that they want once again to cover all these facts is that, as you can see, the lawsuits started. They characterize, in other words, morally shoot the witnesses, who dared to go and reveal what all Greeks are saying and asking for, and all of us, and we had promised that to the Greek people at that time. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that it is the basis on which our cooperation has been based, namely that we need to give it plenty of light. We need to shed light on all these events that hurt the country and hurt the citizens and changed and destroyed the lives of all of us. I wasn't a professional politician. I was an engineer and an entrepreneur. And we engineers since 2009 have been with no object. Why? Because of their successful policy? Oh, no. Because of the parties that have been set up in all areas: health, equipment, the fragmentation made in the Olympic Games - nobody knows where to start - the Stock Exchange. They described the witnesses as ‘cousins’. Why did they characterize them like that? Because they dared and went and filed documents that were hidden, were they loaded and there was no other way to come to the surface, only if there was someone who would deliver them where they had to, so that the investigation procedures could proceed? They are characterized by ‘kouches’ and ‘onymous’. There's no anonymous witness. All witnesses are surnamed and these supposed names are only to be protected until the process begins. After all, this control protection law, according to which the witness is protected by anonymity until the procedures begin, who have voted for it? The two parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK, of course. But now, because it works at their expense - and we mean that the revelations start at their expense - they don't like it. Some time ago we saw it again, it came to light, to the public, what Tsukatos admitted, the 1 million he received to hand it over to the party, to PASOK. He came out and confirmed that, and Mr. Avgerinos confirmed that. You see that from wherever you see the function of these parties, they are from everywhere open and vulnerable. And I will continue with health, so that we do not get away from health, as we had the 'SIEMENS', which these two parties handled, and we have, of course, reached the point that we are the only country to which SIEMENS did not pay a fine. A fine of 2 billion, which went down to 60 million, was agreed by SIEMENS with products or investments, which it would have decided on, would have thought about. That's the kind of deal they've made! Then Christopher left and no investment was made and SIEMENS paid nothing. This government, however, now, this case that has been initiated, research into health, will move on and we will all help to move forward. I read some evidence. From 2000 to 2015, the total loss in the country's weight and in the case of NOVARTIS, this company, is at 3 billion. Shouldn't we move on, ladies and gentlemen? Shouldn't we move on? Of course, and we need to move on. We owe that to the Greek people. We owe it! The Greek people have been hurt by all these actions. I would like to add something to what I said earlier, that we have had twice as much spending on Europe. But what quality of health provision did we have? No relationship, ladies and gentlemen. The rest of the countries, which were half in relation to our own spending, were actually making use of the last euro for the quality of supply to citizens, as opposed to the governments of these two parties, which had completely put the citizen on the margin. Here we have some evidence. They made some statements from previous parties, some of which were made by health ministers. They say from a period of time, and then we reduced expenditure. What expenditure did they reduce? They reduced expenditure on public participation and increased expenditure on citizen participation. However, the profits of these companies were not reduced, they did not change. They made sure to protect them. The citizen, however, did not protect him. The citizen, who voted for them and trusted them to take on his fortune, did not protect him. They left him exposed and operated against him. In fact, here I would like to mention an example of this. We had increases - if I remember correctly, ladies and gentlemen - in 2014, while it was explicitly banned by the troika, by three hospital medicines - all three of NoVARTIS - in Copalia, the antihypertensive, in Sandostatin, the hormonal and Cubicin, the antibiotic. We had increases while expressly banned from the troika. They violated it in order to favour this company. We have various documents - now I see the time is passing - confiscated by the offices of this company, which mention signs and monsters. Names of Ministers, specifically appointments, meetings, which persons participated in the others. Shouldn't all this be published? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now I'm ending up, Madam President. I'd like your tolerance for half a minute. Shouldn't that be publicized? Of course, they must be made public. As regards the vote - and here I am closing, Madam President - as I have already said in my position, can this procedure not be followed, since we will listen to the colleagues for whom the procedure has started? Ten colleagues will present their views. So everyone's treated differently. So, how is it possible, when the voting process begins, to deal with them single in a single ballot? That doesn't make sense. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] In fact, there are also the most important legal colleagues here who know better than I - I am an engineer - that when a criminal procedure starts, and there are various people who are being persecuted or accused of various criminal offences, the court does not treat them uniformly, it does not say 'for all together this and so forth'. It treats each other separately. And there are what we mentioned earlier, namely cases, as we had in the case of 2013 with Papaconstantinou, Papandreou and the others, in which three ballots were set here. No one had a different view of it. Both parties - and I close here - had the same view and so was Batoped. Six balls are set.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u201	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u202	The Independent Greeks are perpendicular: the process will proceed normally, as it has started and it is something that we owe to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, too. I would ask that the time should be respected because there is a great deal of work to be done. Mr Vorides, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I expect more than twenty minutes from the two rapporteurs of the government majority to develop the blame. We are not here to discuss pharmaceutical expenditure, we are not here to discuss pharmaceutical policy in general. This debate is about preliminary. And preliminary means movement of criminal prosecution, it means crimes. We didn't hear a word! Half a word! Why? It'll explain. This is under the heading 'Skariot'. It'll explain. But because I've heard two talk about expenditure, I'm going to talk about pharmaceuticals. I've heard about the costs of impunity and grief. That's right! So, what measures has the pharmaceutical cost been taken, to say a few, and to see who you're telling? With e-prescription? Yeah. Did you vote for her? Oh, no. With the automatic regaining mechanism of expenditure, the so-called 'clawback'? Yeah. Did you vote for it? Oh, no. By means of the legal deduction mechanism, the so-called'rebate'. Did you vote for it? Oh, no. By the Ministerial Decision initially Georgiadis, which set a limit to the prescription that each doctor can do and then to the same, slightly differentiated according to the Council of State, mine. How about that? You joined those who said that it was wrong for these ministerial decisions to come out. By the law which imposed two price notes a year in order to reduce expenditure. Did you vote for it? Oh, no. And not only did you not vote for it, but you did not issue the papers that you had to do with the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u205	You bought them from there!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u206	With the expenditure containment mechanism, the three lowest prices are fixed. What brought these laws? These are all our legislations. You in all these legislations were opposite. And now you're telling us about the medical expense?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u207	Why don't we talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u208	But you can't talk. It is not allowed for this matter. It's not because you're exposed, not for any other reason. You can talk as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u209	We live in another country!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u210	You see how much you're going to expose!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u211	Let's go to the proposition. To get to know: When someone comes in, it is not a process of general investigation of the matter. It is a procedure for the initiation of criminal proceedings, as laid down in Rule 154 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The accusations - as I read them to you, I do not repeat them - are clear and some. Have you read the proposal you signed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u213	And I guess you've read it. Does anyone want to tell me, apart from the Ice Bay Attorney's Attorney's office, where else the names of Evangelos Venizelos, Kutruman, Lykourenjou, Pikramenos and Salma are mentioned? You can talk about it somewhere, son! I'm not saying it's what you're saying. It's all unfounded. And the rest of what you're talking about, that's unfounded. But I'm saying you can't even mention it. But you ask for the prosecution to be done. This is what is defined and in detail in the Rules of Procedure. Now let's go further. Next question: What are you asking of the House? All in the light! Who's the one who wants to be investigated? Someone was telling me he wanted to explore to the bottom. We say 'all in the light' and I will tell you what that means to all of us to be informed. Let's see what your proposal says. Eliminate the skirmish, doesn't it say about the infidelities? That's right. The infidelities are over. So the committee is not taking over. End. Question: Look at a coincidence that here the offence that Kurublis is involved is unbelievable! Look at one thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u214	We proposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u215	Mr Colleague, we are assessing your proposal today. When we choose and what we choose to do is our job. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today we evaluate the proposal you make. Do you, however, have any good explanation why you have chosen the method - which is the logic of 'all in light' - that infidelities are evacuated before they are even dealt with by the committee, without going to the committee, without being judged what time it is, without being judged whether we have any action, without any investigation? And I'm saying, look at a coincidence! Kurublis has infidelity! This is the covert of this proposal. But let's go to the next one. What else do you think? It says your proposal - a monument! We will make it to the committee to investigate Parliament's competence to exercise or not to prosecute it. Not for the essence, but for the authority. Let's see if we have a responsibility! What does the poet mean here? You're the poets of the rat. So what does this guy mean here? Or are we going to say that we have a responsibility for bribery, so it is within duty, so the criminality has been eliminated - so what should we talk about? It's over, or we'll say we don't have responsibility for bribery, so we'll send her to court. So also the House has nothing to do with it. However, this is within the scope of the construction and I will say why. And now I'm going to the litigation, because I'm going to go to the litigation. You're not interested in litigation. We're in legal interest. That's why I'm going to legal. I leave the fine transmitter of the honorable Attorney of the Ice Bay, where he of course mentions all the names of the persons involved, except one, which is mentioned in person as "the then Minister of Health". Guess who's not mentioned! All others, Samaras, Pikrammenos, Georgiadis, etc. they are reported. Magic! What's the name of the transponder? You rascal! That name avoids the honorable D.A.'s reporting. All right! But let's go further. What are the elements in your proposal, not in another proposal, what you say, what you say in glossing some things. Where is he? Where do you get them from? Question: Is there a document? Nothing, nothing! Are there any witnesses with names? Not these magical "Sarafi" and "Kelesi" with normal names. Are there? Oh, no. Have money or bills been found somewhere? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u216	What do you say, Mr. Voridis? There are four witness testimonies of eyewitnesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u217	Which do not mention anything about political persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u218	That's how you evaluate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u219	Not if you assess it, read it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u220	Don't say there are no witnesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u221	Listen, we won't disagree about the real thing. Let's disagree on legal and political as much as you want. We know how to read Greek. In Greek, you will read the statements of the four witnesses with a name and tell me where they say there is a political involvement. For political involvement arises, with yours, I repeat, elements, not with ours, only from the so-called 'protected witnesses'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u222	Not even in Tulupaki's transponder.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u223	And now I'm going to the construction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like some time, Mr President. So let's go to the statements. That's all there is to it. Question: They were protected. Yes, sir. How'd they be protected? I read from a statement: "With Law 2928/2001- right? - in accordance with Article 9(2).' What does Article 9(2) say? How is that characterisation possible? It shall be done by reasoned decision of the Advocate General. What offences do Article 9(2) relate to? Criminal organization. Is there a criminal organization here? Oh, no. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But what provision did it have to be made?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u224	Isn't there a bribery with the addition of '14?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u225	Yes, sir! Here, here, here, don't rush. What's your hurry?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u226	No, here, here, here! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u227	I see you nervous. I don't want to! Patience wants this!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u228	Not nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u229	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I'm going to need some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u231	How long will it take, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u232	Your tolerance, Mr President, and we see it along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u233	He was interrupted three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u234	What is it, my colleague, that you are extinguished, the right provision? In fact, Article 9, but paragraph 7 added by the 2014 Act. What does this paragraph 7 say? Yeah, you can make a public order witness, but how? At the request of the Public Prosecutor handling and approval of the Ice Award Attorney. Why is that? Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Because we have political persons, and so I need a senior judiciary to say that. Question: Did this happen? Oh, no. I guess, I'm sorry, it's done. But when? It was February 9th, after the litigation had left Mrs Toulupakis and came to Parliament. Then that's what happened! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Well, now if anyone thinks that this is a boom, it'll be a fire to burn it down. Nobody thinks about it, please! Because, of course, this is summed up in Mr. Tsipras' premise of February 2017, which in detail describes exactly what the scandal is. Which is what happens! That's how witnesses testify. When? From November 2017 until February 2018, but then Mr.Janakopoulos, who said to take a walk from Arios Igos, had an interest in the man being informed about the course of the case. When is this happening? One day after the shocking rally and one day before the file and the census were transmitted to the House - in fact! - following the statements made by Mr. Papagelopoulos, who discovered - how did he find out? - the biggest scandal - you shouldn't have! - which exists, but mainly after the shocking sworn statements of the protected witnesses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Watch out: The other guy, the one who testifies...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u235	Please, Mr. Voridis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u236	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u237	Excuse me, but for everyone, it's the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u238	You're absolutely right. I'm done. I'll say a little bit about the witnesses' statements, and I'll be done. Note: What do these witnesses, the "gulls" testify? Question: Are you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u239	The protagonists.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u240	All right, the guards.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u241	Didn't you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u242	But I'll call it whatever I want, if you'll excuse me. Be well! With your permission, that is! Note: What do witnesses submit? So these witnesses come and say the following. Is there one who says I saw someone get money? No, nobody. Question: What do they submit? 'I heard', 'I appreciate' and'relevant'. What does Article 225 say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u243	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u244	Have a good time, Mr. Philly. You're done law school. Take care of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u245	You're not a pediatrician!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u246	So what does Article 225 say? Mr. Mada, don't interrupt me. You see, time goes by because you're interrupting me. This is a very serious policy, which is silence. So what does Article 225 of the Code of Civil Procedure say? A Witness who isn't self-sufficient, but what he knows from a source, what does he have to do, colleagues? Ask the D.A. "How do you know, my man, that?" And testify to the source of his knowledge. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Otherwise, what does Article 225 say? It shall not be taken into account for its statement. That's what he says, self-evident. But be careful of something else. The time taken by the witnesses is four hours. They start at nine to testify, they went and the prosecutor asks them "Tell us what you know" and asks them questions. That's nine o'clock in the morning. When did the testimony end? One at noon. How much did they get? One and a half typing page deposit. What were the witnesses saying four hours with the D.A. to get out a page and a half? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] One more thing, but nice. The other knows Samaras was bribed. They took him with the 2 million-dollar drive. He knows. He's going to the D.A. First day of testimony, conversation! Second day, talk! Third day, talk! Fourth day, talk! Thursday: 'I tell you, a Prime Minister has also been bribed.' These are the witnesses. These are the evidence. That's what this is about, and that's why you don't dare talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u247	You're welcome, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u248	Shame, shame, disgrace, construction and covert! That's the prelude!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u249	The rapporteur for the PASOK Democratic Association has the floor - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou. Please, Mr Papatheodorou, because there are disagreements and reactions from the audience, I would like us to keep the normal time plus two minutes, like the other speakers, to keep an equal distance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u250	As many as the others, Mr President, are sure I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u251	The other ones, Mr President, did not speak the same way. We talked for twelve minutes, and Mr. Voridis for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u252	You spoke for twelve minutes and forty-eight seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Paradisepoulou, and you took two minutes. I'll give Mr. Papatheodorou two minutes. That's what I said. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's process, as it seems, is leading to a political and institutional craving. The majority’s procedural artifacts are divided with the government’s strong interventions in justice. Previously, we asked a question. The President did not want to answer us. He didn't want to answer what we're talking about today. The good colleague, Mr Paradoxopoulos, answered this question and said that we are discussing today, ladies and gentlemen, the majority proposal. So we are talking today about the majority proposal, which says that a special parliamentary committee should be set up to investigate Parliament's competence. Mr. Paradoxopoulos said it here. But this is not the task of the Special Parliamentary Committee for preliminary examination. That's not her responsibility. We won't have a debate on whether he has competence. We will discuss the crimes and the faces that you have chosen today to refer. And I say this for the following simple reason, because in the proposal, apart from the offences the majority chooses to regard as illegal, there is no reference to the operative part what these offences are. Really, if we go to the preliminary, will we not investigate - using Mr Paradise's words and not the President, who has not answered and expected his answer - for infidelity? Aren't we going to discuss, for example, the article, the description of the offence, which says when an official, that is, Minister, has been unfaithful, to see if it is illegal? If it is falsified for some, however, the proposal says that even for the PKK, that is to say for Mr Kurublé, it is being deleted. And how do we know that? How do we know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u255	Suggest!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u256	From that point on, it is not a preliminary point of view that, on the one hand, I have said so beforehand, it is investigating the competence of the House in relation to offences and, on the other hand, in a negative case, it confirms the competence of justice. Is it possible to confirm the competence of the judiciary for the legalisation of the 'black money'? Obviously not. We are therefore calling for the position to be taken for another reason, because we consider it to be very serious - that, as the majority proposal has been tabled, it is also irresponsible and void. Are we going to discuss a void proposal, a proposal which does not refer to offences and which does not relate them to persons? I say to you that '3' of the proposal, which says there is room to discuss it, falls within the specific offences of bribery and bribery, which - in the opinion of the Members who signed this proposal - must be divided into two categories, without referring to persons who would be subject to preliminary jurisdiction, namely those who did not have the power to carry out their duties, while they are considered to have been financed. Let's get something straight. From now on, I can tell you that since the answer was not given, and since Mr Paradise's categorical statement on behalf of the majority is that we are going to an exploratory scientific dialogue, it is another thing. When we say that is another thing, it means that either the President will answer that he supports what he has put on the agenda today, or we are talking about what he thinks, and I do not think this is so serious. So what we are asking clearly - and we will go to the rest - is this. We ask for a preliminary committee, as provided for by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, with full investigation powers, in which the case will be dealt with at the beginning, the witnesses will be called, with or without the protection you have chosen late and void to give them 9 February. We will call on every person involved, perpetrators, know-how and collaborators and the political people mentioned, to shed plenty of light, to prove the obscurity of the constructed statements of the case in order to finally suppress the construction. That is what we are asking for, so that political persons are not slashed and not stigmatized. Because here we are talking not generally about the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, here we are talking about the litigation that has come to Parliament, involving specific political persons. But not stigmatizing and not squeezing political protractors by means of a method of total disposing of names, sequencings and mud in the fan. We're not all the same. And not everyone fought the pharmaceutical party. We did it in '10, '11, '12 and '14. We did this, but when you voted against it, when you did not hang out with the "recognized" and the looters who were raped against Lover and Koutromani! Mr. Constantopoulos is here. He was the victim of such an attack. At the same time, you did this and you voted against it. You voted against electronic prescribing, i.e. the tools for reducing expenditure, and you voted against the EEA. And then you said, along with others, 'indignant', about the drugs 'all the pounds, all the money'. And yet we're not the same. Because after you voted against them, you will not come today to throw tears of compassion, as the rapporteur said before, on how the expenditure was launched and how the expenditure was held back. It's known and proven. We will therefore leave you no room to throw shadows and disorientate the House and the citizens with communication and splitting tricks, in order to pass an irresponsible and void majority proposal with no indications, arising from supposedly protected witnesses - unprotected and you will see this - and questionable investigational actions. We will not let you maintain the mud against your political opponents until the next elections and build the myth of cleansing against corruption. So much clearance now that even in the listing of Mr Kurublés' name you fooled yourself into the proposal you are using the initials. And remember, I return to the name of another minister in September - December - who did not issue a price report. There is no limitation on infidelity or on the rest. So you should also see what you are hiding diligently. Listen to that. You diligently hide the period 2004-2009. I'm surprised. You get them during the periods 2001, 2010. In 2004-2009, when the New Democracy government's period was derailed by the drug expenditure in the country by 160% with the abolition of the list? The list had been introduced in '96 by PASOK to launch the expenditure and then it had to be held back. Did the troika retain it or did the government's policies see that from 2.1 to 5.9, with an increase of 160%? But I see who you want to protect. You know what? In fact, you have not extended to your Government, pediamosis has been done by expelled PASOK and New Democracy executives in the past decades, who, of course, have normally voted for the pharmacopoeia. Therefore, your Government's goal is not to reveal the truth, but to share indictments without serious evidence. It is not the House's recommendation to set up a Committee on Preliminary Examination, but to maintain the climate of scandalology and corruption against the supposed old political system. The government wants to build a new '89 directory of malicious inspections, with witnesses who consider, speculate, probable, testify to what they have heard on the market, but they do not bring any real evidence beyond their word. And you know the law doesn't say that. The law wants to have evidence linking the witness with real facts. We recommend something to you clearly: Preliminary, take it all from the outset, from the complaints of Prosecutor Helen Rykos in April 2017, for parapolitical centers that put pressure on the investigation to take a specific direction, up to the credibility of the witnesses, the complaints made by Evangelos Venizelos and other political leaders about these witnesses, whom they call "false witnesses", the facts and indications that these witnesses bring together, as well as the body of procedural irregularities or cancellations during the interrogation process. And that's where the government will find you unprotected, be sure. Ladies and gentlemen, the NOVARTIS scandal exists, it is international and it is currently more than twenty-eight countries, for unfair influence on the drug market, with the involvement of companies responsible, doctors, state officials, health workers. But the House is not considering this today. It examines the possible involvement of the ten political persons concerned, as can only be seen from posteriori and improper deposits, without any evidence, without any defects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In this we denounce the imprisonment of the government in justice, when, as of February 2017, the Prime Minister referred to the House as "public interest witnesses" on 9 February, when various ministers in Parliament raised threats to the House of trials that would be brought before the guards, who are supposedly - today characterized as "public interest witnesses" on 9 February, after the courtesy of the House and the day - symptomically! - Vaggelis Venizelos asks the President of the Parliament for the act of proclamation of witnesses. Paradise! How sloppy but also inconsistent can the vessels even be in the travesty of procedures? The witnesses who testify? That they speculated, suspected or heard that there was bribery of politicians - I will read it out of you - by hand or by motorized bags, day after day, with the display of a police identity, that is how corruption takes place! Are they likely to Loverdo that the level of the gift cannot be less than two hundred thousand euros and perhaps another official will have taken it - will not have taken it? - six hundred thousand euros, that the president of an organization is a political friend of Venizelos, and therefore his cashier - he speculated - so there can be no money! Or that another Minister was funded with a sufficient amount, perhaps a million in total! And these are testimonies, these are testimonies! And on these statements you want to make what? Legalize a permanent dialogue on corruption to throw mud at your political opponents. If you read this, would you consider it serious, the ones you all signed? Of course not! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask for your tolerance for a very short time. And all of this is supposed to be evidenced by supposedly protected witnesses, one of which gives ten additional testimonies - ten! - in a month and a half and every time he remembers a new political person and comes back to implicate it. And a new political person, without the first time the Prosecutor Ms. Toulupakis has said that look at the case law in justice. No, we had to repeat the additional statement, so that we could have new faces and new ones, unfounded, without any basis at all. In our view, this is therefore a cannibalisation of institutions, a collapse of the rule of law and independence in justice. So the government takes the risk - and notice this - to "burn" the passage of a scandal in order to keep the arena open to the penetration of its political opponents. It does not want to reveal the practices that contributed to the country's bankruptcy and reached the pharmaceutical expenditure from 2004 to 2009 to the 5,2 billion state budget, which later decreased over Loverdou, Kutruman, who are accused and ended up to 2 billion in 2014. That's why we're not all the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u257	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u258	It is my last word, Mr President. The scandal that we will consider in the pre-inquiry is the scandal that has a political centre - and this political centre is the Maximus Mansion, to clear it up - and executive arm of ministers and brief judges. There, among other things, in the pre-inquiry, we want to call on them to testify: Mr Papingopoulos, whether and when was last discussed with the prosecutors of corruption, when that was. We want to call to investigate and what was the content of Mr.Janakopoulou's visit to the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. What is Mrs Than's intervention in the matter of protected witnesses? Also, we can investigate what relationship some of the guarded witnesses with government officials are dealing with, so we can shed plenty of light. Isn't that what we want? That's what we'll do in the pre-examination, whatever trick you use. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end with this. Because the government refuses to take responsibility for its role towards the homeland and is politicized without any self-awareness, the mud it has built for its opponents will devastate itself. Her time is running out and this pre-review has turned the claw backwards. We will reveal the construction and the makers, we will uncover the underground routes of the dirty ‘18. And for that reason alone, we can discuss preliminary, real, with interrogative responsibilities, to shed light on this case, in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, too. Mr Rabbit, rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, has the floor for ten minutes like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by saying that about a year ago, something less than a year ago, a pre-examination committee was set up on the scandal of Yiannis Papantoniou and on the money, the hatreds that had been given and the money of the Greek people who had disappeared from the "mas" of the Greek political scene. This pre-examination committee was really funny as it evolved. From the very beginning we went to debate it was said by Mr Paradise at the time, which was the President, that there was nothing we could do, that we could not deal with this matter. We are neither legal, nor do we know them well, nor do we have relationships with them, but there is no need for special knowledge from law to see if anyone is a thief and if he has abused Greek public money. We said then to the conclusion - and I will put it in the Minutes - that there should also be people who want to read it - and those who want to read it - we had told these well-known lawyers that they should have the question of bribery or bribery of the Minister in question - which was not only left to the individual, but was extended to too many others and arrived at the then Prime Minister Simitis, according to documents submitted by the Golden Dawn - to be examined by Greek justice and that this joke should be stopped by Article 86 and by the "responsibility" Act or rather by the "responsibility" Act and the "responsibility of the Ministers". That's what we said back then. So SYRIZA is coming today, listening to what we were saying at the time - not because he really cares about the clearance, but because he wants to eliminate his political opponents - and implements exactly what the Golden Dawn said at the pre-inquiry time. We are very pleased, because all the roads to clearance lead to what the Golden Dawn says, not - I repeat again - because we are the ones who know everything, but because we are the ones who are very clear and want to put the knife in the bone, unlike everyone else in here. Please, I would like to present it for the Minutes. It's on page 40, for those who are interested in seeing what we were talking about a year ago. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above conclusion, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm on it. Previous speakers have said - everyone has mentioned it from the Step here and the various television panels that we are watching them - that there is a 'NOVARTIS' scandal. So this is not questioned by anyone, there is a 'NOVARTIS' scandal. So let's go to best, since there's a NOVARTIS scandal. The ministers who have been in those days do not have responsibility for the NOVARTIS scandal? Let me start with the possibility that these people haven't gotten them. But are they not completely incompetent and inappropriate to be in ministerial positions, when they cannot control hundreds of millions of euros who are leaving and which have led our country to this tragic position in which they are now in place, in other words to be in constant surveillance over the last eight years and to deliver ports, sea, air, everything? They're not responsible? So we see an agonizing attempt by the ministers of those days to convince - they say so - that they were simply useless and incompetent. They're good. Because they say they're thieves and crooks, they'd better be called useless and incompetent. So they are going slowly to be acquitted in that old way that we saw and we laughed at him and laughed at: to be acquitted by stupidity in fact by the then ministers who come out and talk to us about everything, that they know it all. However, the fact that in their ministries they disappeared hundreds of millions of euros did not know about it. Because of stupidity, then, some go acquittals. Will everyone be acquitted? I don't think so. Let us stress once again - our parliamentary representative, Mr Pappas, said so before - that we of course support the presumption of innocence. Of course we are not saying that everyone is guilty until this fact is proved. But not everyone can be innocent. It is not possible that all this money has disappeared without anyone's fault, not just because of stupidity, but that they themselves have not put their hand in the vase with honey. That's the reality. So we hear that there are certain things. Some have spoken before, and obviously they have not read the file at all. They said there's no evidence that there's only speculation. There are many other things, however, which have not been mentioned here. There are specifically, as a witness has said, through the case-file. It names eight companies in particular, in which there was money laundering. In these companies, as in some other fifteen, the prosecution authorities of Greece have entered after intervention by the American prosecution authorities and have received computers, mobile phones, notes that have been found in papers and documents. Those aren't here yet to look at them. And then let's see who's gonna laugh and who's gonna cry. Because it's very important. Also, from what we learn from valid sources, there are videos. There's visual material. And there is video material from talks, which are named by specific ministers, that there are "NOVARTIS great-minded meetings", so that money can go on specific dates, on specific points, and be given in a specific way. So we'll see about that then. Does it sound very strongly lately that the then ministers, who are currently involved with alpha or beta, say what the protected witnesses have to fear? Why, he says, should the protected witness be afraid? First of all, we must stress that we are not in favour of the 'gullars' witnesses. We've said it all along. For us anyone who wants, has to go down, say his opinion, say what he has from there and beyond the Greek state, the Greek state, should protect these people. One more, the other one. However, complaints only via a hood of course are unacceptable. We weren't saying any more now. We're talking the same thing. But on what it is heard, what the protected witnesses have to fear for the NOVARTIS case, I will tell you what they have to fear. There is a dead, directly involved, Panagiotis Mavrikos in this case. He burned his car on Attica Street. There is another, Nikolaos Chenikidis, who tried to kill himself from a central Athens hotel about a year ago. And there are complaints about two other witnesses who have been threatened, their cars have been destroyed, they are receiving threatening calls. That is what the protected witnesses of our ministers who represent the innocent pigeons have to fear and that they are not to blame for anything. So these protected witnesses have something to fear. We're going to a joke of the case, if it wasn't tragic, because it's put in prison too many people the scandal that's become. We listen to Samaras and Athanasios with courage to talk about interference with the judicial authorities. It is really unthinkable how these two people speak specifically, when Athanasios himself has admitted twice from the Step of the House that in the case of the Golden Dawn - and specifically before he went to apologise our Chief, Nikos Michaeliakos - he had a telephone conversation with the Prosecutor Chami those days. And when we and the competitor Elias Cassidy, who pulled it all out, said the Minister was trembling "I didn't do anything, one phone I called just to get informed about the evolution". He is the one who comes now and accuses the Minister of Papiggiopoulou, because he was allegedly informed of this case! Athanasios is the one who was calling and who we all know was not just asking about the case, but Samaras's orders and videos, but no one here has the guts to show them, because Golden Dawn is absolutely justified. There were talks, interventions and orders of Samaras through Athanasios, in order to imprison innocent Greek citizens, namely the Chief of the third political power of Greece and MPs. And they have the courage to say such things! And Samaras is at such a bad place that, because they are referring to specific appointments, which were closely associated, he is trying to justify unjustified ones. So, for a meeting of his partner, Papastavros, on October 21, 2014, he went out and filed a lawsuit - the man obviously lost it - and he says that he couldn't have been on that date, because two days ago he was married in Spetses. Of course that doesn't show anything on its own. She got married, and of course she could be on an appointment two days later. But the figures of the time come, as the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" made a few days ago, and then refers to a post "BAMITOT" dated 22 October 2014, which says that "Papastavros, because he had too many tasks that he had to run and which he had to prevent, not a honeymoon he didn't do a week of honey". So, then, I repeat in 2014, about four years ago, there was this news. Samaras, while he's lost it, is trying to justify himself by unjustified saying. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So Samaras admits in this way that his partner, Papastavros, had some suspicious content, because, if it wasn't for that, he wouldn't try to cancel the meeting, but he would say that of course they met, they didn't do anything secret, they didn't have anything else to say, they didn't talk about money, bribes or anything. But knowing that this meeting was very confused, she tried to cancel it. He didn't make it. And this on its own shows his guilt. As also not mentioned in the meetings that the guardian says had another close associate, the Pontius. Specifically, it mentions the meeting on September 26, 2013 at Samara's office, as well as October 10, 2013 at the Maximos Megaron. There's nothing to say. Half the dates are weird, and the other half of his other partners hated him, isn't it weird? She's in a difficult position and the name of Samara will be heard in others. Everyone knows what this pathetic guy has done. Everyone knows the persecutions of innocent Greek citizens! I shall end by saying that it gives me great impression, and it is really funny, that the New Democracy should have the rapporteur Mak Voridis. Makis Vorides, for those who don't remember or know, is the one who was directly involved in health, he was at the Ministry of Health. Prior ministers are accused. Afterwards from him, ministers are accused. His partners, such as Mr Athanasas and Mr Karathanos, will also be accused of being involved in illegal acts, from what the protected witnesses at least say, but Vorides does not exist! And not only does it exist, but it comes here today to go up to the Step of the House and is trying to acquit it - I don't think it should be too much - the rest of the defendants, at least in the New Democracy. So Vorides is either a monster of honesty and a very moral man or speaks English very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u261	Thank you. And we move on with Mr Karathanasopoulos, rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece. Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. You have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. What do we have right now? We have an action taken by the government - but not just, it contributes to the rest of the opposition parties - with a multiple aim. What's that multiple targeting? We certainly don't see the work for the first time. In the past we have had such discussions and koruna in plenary that the clearance comes, that it will end the complexion, that the umbilical cord must break between the political system and economic interests. How many times have these speeches been repeated in plenary? There are too many of them. From Koskotta and the equipment, to Vatopedi, to address just a few issues that had been dealt with in plenary. What are they seeking? What are these multiple targets? Firstly, it is to overthrow the true responsible. Who's the real manager? It is nothing but the commercialisation of people's needs, the hunting of capitalist profits and the unrelenting competition between monopolistic groups, to conquer by any means, with all the "monetary" and unfair means, larger parts of the market. The second aim is to disorientate from the dangerous developments we have in the Balkans and the Aegean, but also from the fourth assessment launched by the government that will further escalate the anti-population attack. Thirdly, this debate, but also the consequences it will have, aspires to be a tool either for changing political correlations or for creating a new political staff. The example of Italy with its clean hands is pure. And where did he drive? It led to Berlusconi phenomena and not, of course, to the clearance, transparency and breaking of the cord. Through this process, they want to express the ruthless struggle between SYRIZA on the one hand and New Democracy on the other, with prey on government management, governance of the place, and the duplicate that will be played. On the one hand it is the complexity and scandal, and on the other hand it is the construction. We heard it from the representatives of both parties who spoke before. Because this effort is being made. Because, of course, in their policy, there is strategic convergence between SYRIZA and New Democracy on all issues of political choice. New Democracy starts something, SYRIZA concludes it, so that the New Democracy can continue from where SYRIZA left it and repeat this project, with anti-popular policy being applied permanently to the people's backs. So we say it clearly in spite of all the delusions. As a Communist Party of Greece, we will vote 'yes' in the preliminary committee. We'll try to help investigate until the end of the case, without the various procedural terminology you want to put on. We will continue to reveal the causes of both legal and illegal scandals. They are inherent in the capitalist way of production itself, with the complexity of monopolies with the urban state, that is, with their own state. We will oppose your illusions and your various ideologies - and the government and the opposition - so that the work of this committee is not alibied, to unleash the anti-grassroots policy implemented by all governments - and the current government - in the field of health. Of course, it is no coincidence that today's case of the NOVARTIS scandal is being exploited by the SYRIZA, by the Government, by its competition with the New Democracy to argue that the difference in government deficits is a result of just the corruption of some people, that the crisis is due to this corruption and not a crisis in the capitalist system, that measures and memoranda were made because of corruption and that, if we stop corruption, there will be no anti-gravity measures. What does he want to scoop? The very nature of the capitalist system, the very nature of the measures it implements and the current government which have no purpose but to shield the competitiveness and profitability of monopolistic groups. But what is the big, huge scandal, in the opinion of the JRC? It is on the one hand the enormous potential that is being given today because of the development of the productive forces of technology and science and on the other hand is the degree to which people are satisfied. This lane is constantly expanding. It is on the one hand the huge accumulation of wealth in less and less hands, on the other hand, the living conditions of the people's strata in our country and everywhere. It is the very system you serve. In this context, it is objectively always the monopolies, companies are willing to corrupt, in order to gain ever larger market shares. The basis of the scandal, that is, is the commercialisation of the people's needs. It's the merchandise of health and medicine. It is the fierce and ruthless competition between multinational market shares and the drug industry. The practices of NOVARTIS are practices used by all multinationals, all industries and the drug field. Not only. They are practices applied in Greece, they apply in Europe, they apply to the capitalist world as a whole. Of course not just the medicine. The ‘SIEMENS’ of corresponding competition was. The equipment programmes of corresponding competition have been expressing themselves. The 'VOLKSWAGEN' scandal. They are the rule and not the exception of a peaceful world. Mr. Friday, you're not here. Capitalism didn't push it around the corner. He didn't run his steering wheel and flew to the rocks in 2000. It's the same character as this system. And the more it rots, the more these phenomena grow and grow. Because the objective basis for corruption is nothing but multiple centres of interest. It's the war of the multinationals. The case of NOVARTIS, for example, is another episode of the business war between the United States and the European Union. SIEMENS was an incident like this. VOLKSWAGEN was an incident. They are companies that have won larger parts of the market than American multinationals. On the other hand, what is the European Union's response? The huge fines it has imposed on multinational companies of new technology in the United States, because they have the leadership over Europeans. So it is about who will win a market share. It's the war between standard drugs and generics. It is the war between domestic production and imports. So the political choices in this environment and the consequences of these political choices have a significant impact on this war of interest. Because it is a rule that the policy is involved with economic power. Any action, for example, when the Minister signs something or when a witness accuses himself, can potentially serve the interests of either one side or the other. What credibility, for example, can someone, who is the director of a company associated with a core group of NOVARTIS antagonists in the United States, and who can also meet with Ministers after 2015? We say this clearly: no one above suspicion. Everyone needs to be checked. All the ministers, because of course the EOF and the EOF exist today. What's the picture? The picture is only a reduction in government expenditure and health insurance expenditure and an increase in private participation. What are the results of this policy that you and previous governments are implementing? It is, first of all, that Greece, according to official figures, in 2009, had as public health expenditure 1% less than the European Union average. The public health expenditure in 2009 in the European Union was 7.8% and in Greece it was 6.8%. Now in the European Union it remains 7.8% and in Greece it is down to 5%. What's the picture? The picture is that in the private funding of health expenditure Greece is the fifth country in the world. First are the United States, after Mexico, Korea, Chile, and then Greece comes to private health expenditure. What's the big picture? It is that from 2009 to 2015 private pharmaceutical expenditure, based on official figures, increased from 19.2% to 33.7% and now, in 2017, reached 44%. So here's what the big picture is. The burden is therefore passed on by the State and by state funding and by insurance funds to the insured person's own pockets. So the scandal is that it is not possible to wide-popular layers have access to health and medicine and that there are obstacles depending on their economic potential. This policy is also being implemented by you. And you do double, when you say you lowered health expenditure, you cause twice as much, when you excite the troika for that choice. The hypocrisy of today's government is, when it has been delivered, not only with the current but also with the previous governments, the pharmaceutical research sector, clinical research, but also with the evolution of doctors in pharmaceutical companies, and should have been the responsibility of the public. Who, for example, finances medical research? Who finances clinical studies, Ministers? What does the OECD toolbox, which sees as a development tool, as a development pillar, the number of clinical studies, which are financed essentially by its multinationals? And there's no complication and symphony here? So, you're trying to rinse out the rotten capitalist system. Because it is neither for the memoranda nor for the crisis, mismanagement, but the system itself, and that is a conscious misunderstanding of the people. The trick is set in your footsteps. You use several procedural tricks, such as the limitation of infidelity. We say clearly that there must not be any such debate in the committee and must look at it all, even the unfaithfulness, which is also the link between bribery and money laundering. If he didn't go unfaithful, why was someone bribed? So it must be considered, as is hypocrisy in the question of protected witnesses. We believe that the committee should be able to examine the witnesses who appear to be protected, clearly, as natural persons. We are clear from the outset that as a party we are vertically opposed to the institution of the protected witnesses, which was established in 2001 with the reactionary provisions of the "terror" and extended in 2014 on corruption issues. We are opposed, as such practice gives the opportunity to examine witnesses anonymously, without the natural presence in the court, opening streets to mislead democratic rights and popular freedoms. And here is the huge difference between our attitude and the attitude of the rest of the parties. Because today the SYRIZA rapporteur referred to this regime and that we need to implement it, because it is a legal regime. What were you saying in 2001, Mr. Rapporteur? SYRIZA - as ASSOCIATION at the time - left Parliament denounced the "terror" and the hooded witnesses, then, you said. I am tabling Mr Kouvellis' position in the 2001 debate. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] From this point of view - and I conclude, Mr President - we as a JRC will say 'yes', without being deceiving and trying to reveal and reach the end, and we will not play in your own games.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u263	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. I would ask Mr Marios Georgiadis, rapporteur of the Centro Association, to come to Stepma to take the floor. Please, Mr Georgiadis, as Vice-President, respect the ten-minute time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be in the tenth, because that's where I've figured it out, and I'm in my turn. Ladies and gentlemen, what has been said over the last few days about the NOVARTIS case of course did not fall like a lightning inhabitation, because not even a Greek doubts that for decades a big party in the field of health has been welcomed, a public money-sharing party, the costs of which are spent every year on the backs of patients and Greek citizens. At this party, of course, they were all present, companies that were acting, using unfair practices, jurors of state officials, board members and consultants and, unfortunately, too many doctors who prescribed not on the basis of the therapeutic properties of each drug, but on the basis of the travel schedule of each company. Let's not forget that 2009 saw the biggest annual deficit in our history with EUR 36 billion. I'm filing the press release of the Hellenic Statistical Authority. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There are clear time-consuming indications that the "NOVARTIS" scandal and other similar cases are hidden in a drawer waiting for the right moment to be presented to public opinion, not because suddenly a government came and wants to resolve, not because it suddenly stopped the hatreds and became all honest, but because it suits them to hit them at that particular time, that is, always having each other in hand. As if there were a destiny of criminal acts that some political opponents are holding and, depending on the actions of their political opponents, holding it as a guarantee and as a safeguard and, when it comes to their interest, to make it public as a scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want transparency, make a transparent system. Simple as that. Don't leave open windows. You cannot, on the one hand, cut yourself off for transparency and, on the other, keep the pluralism, the rugs and the party state, because all this scandalology can lead to fiasco and, indeed, it can turn you back into boomerang. What could a ordinary citizen think, seeing this sudden interest in transparency in a particular area of the state? It is quite simply that the government has certain short-term objectives in mind. And I'm going to be specific: To limit the publicity of the talks to the skopje so that, when the time comes, undisturbed, she can do what no Greek politician could do and she would dare do: to hand over Macedonian name, her history, her culture in exchange, as was rightly written in the press, a sign and two streets. It is no coincidence that Mr. Tsipras, in the middle of the halloween, dressed Copperfield and on one night, on the 4th day of the month, disappeared hundreds of thousands of citizens from the rally and no one has been talking about Macedonia for three weeks. Secondly, it is timely, who speaks of the Turks? Of course, it should be seen as minor in the news that the region's break-up in the Aegean is in the Aegean Sea by the Turks, but also by its hostile actions that are dangerously escalating at the same time as the Greek Government is whistling indifferently for both the unfair Turkish practices in the Aegean and the illegal actions of Turkey in Cyprus. Because the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, not only cannot protect Cyprus in the context of an older dogma, not only can it not affect what has been said in the EEZ of the Greater island, but it is unable to do anything even in front of its yard. I'm referring to the Imias. Thirdly, to get away from the loaf that is expected to be caused by the decisions already made by the latter. I am talking specifically about residential auctions and the further reduction of duty-free allowances. In disorientation you're mentors, you're magicians taking aces out of your sleeves. Without wishing to put, of course, on the scale and the criminal activities, I must remind the Government, ladies and gentlemen, that for your days a greater scandal has been committed than 'NOVARTIS', because you have claimed that the 'NOVARTIS' scandal is the biggest one of the Greeks. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the 'Baroufakis scandal' in the first half of 2015, which I say not only myself, but even Thomas Vizier has recently come out and testified that he has cost close to EUR 200 billion. I submit to the minutes of the relevant publication. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] You don't like to hear them. You just want to talk about others. Yours not to talk to. Your time will come, don't worry! It's logical that you're shouting right now. Varoufakis has cost us, ladies and gentlemen, as much as all the memorials together and that is the only truth. And if the sum of 200 billion seems to be excessive, I would remind you that a member of the coup d'état in a recent interview said that he went with consultants from the Ministry of Finance and concluded that the cost was not so much from the Varoufakis period, it was close to 35 billion euros. I'm making a report on it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In any case, there's a lot of money, ladies and gentlemen. Whether it's 35 or it's 200, it's too much money, and you won't pay for it, the Greek people will pay for it with taxes, pension cuts, benefits reductions, wage cuts. And, of course, to return to today's situation and we must pay due attention to the majority proposal to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee, but it is suffering in so many places that any serious suffering exists disappears. In particular, the accusations appear to be not so substantiated. Witnesses, for example, are engaged in an approximate mediation depending on the height of the order, assuming that the political person involved got a miserable. Specifically, according to the witness named "Maximos Sarafis" the Minister of Health Avramopoulos is unlikely to receive a gift of less than 200,000 euros as a gift. I put forward a report on the above. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Such expressions and practices are a disgrace to common sense, ladies and gentlemen, but also to democratic institutions. Either the indictment will be more scientifically and documented, or we will admit that it is purely political toys on the back of the public. Secondly, it is trying to link unconnected and irresponsible deposits or - better to put it - narratives and enrich with recitals and legal documentation arguments the words of witnesses, which are objectively lower level and only in caffeine-type discussions can be heard. Acknowledgement that the authors themselves have realised that the seriousness of the statements is inexistent is that they have not dared to reproduce any deposit in their original form, but they describe them or neglect them. Thirdly, it is not possible to witness the inspiring Prime Minister and to see whether he was aware of any matter or not. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very concerned at the achievement of institutions and political life in the Central Association. On the one hand, we want light on any scandal, but on the other hand, we know very well that justice must be blind and always operate effectively under any government. If the institutions of justice escape and become a tool in the hands of politicians, then our country becomes an automatic state of affairs, democracy and the freedom of citizens is once and for all confused. If the crime has been committed, we must seek to settle the matter and the exemplary punishment of those against Greek citizens who have damaged the state. I conclude with two phrases. We are in favour of everything coming to light, but in a proper way and not for communication. We consider this practice to be unacceptable with the ten ballots and the only question we should be discussing today is whether or not this committee will be set up. For all the above reasons, but above all because we consider the indictment to be infinite and vague, we are very sceptical about the attitude we will take at the end of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u265	Mr George Mavrotas, rapporteur of the Union of Centres, has the floor. Excuse me, the river. I've made you a centerpiece, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u266	It's okay, and we're downtown. Thank you, Mr President. We are now discussing the setting up of a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination of the so-called pre-interrogative for ten political persons, what was mentioned by protected witnesses on the issue of the illegal practices of the NOVARTIS pharmaceutical company in Greece. The NOVARTIS scandal is a subset of a larger scandal, that of pharmaceutical expenditure in our country. It was revealed that "NOVARTIS" entered the nostril of the Americans, because an American corporation rival and these things on the other side of the Atlantic are not joking. So, among many countries, it was our country. There are three issues. The first and most important thing, in my opinion, is the public pharmaceutical expenditure that has been launched in the country - there is, moreover, a committee of inquiry which investigates the House - particularly between 2001 and 2010 where from 1.3% of GDP, public pharmaceutical expenditure went to 2.2%, from 2 billion to 5 billion. Now thanks to the cuts in the memorandum has fallen back to 2 billion with the clawback and the rebate. Is SYRIZA really supposed to tell us when he was right to cry that public pharmacy expenditure has been reduced since 2010 and after the bad memorials or now that he's crying and pouring out the pharmacy expenditure since 2001 in 2010? The second issue is the practices of NOVARTIS within this framework, promotional practices, money laundering, unfair competition, bribes to doctors, executives, even politicians. There is a question that needs to be investigated. Besides, it's not just Greek. We must, as a country, demand compensation for the damage caused by these practices in the public funds. The third issue, however, is the government's approach, which wants to gain political benefits, integrating the case into its political planning, even undermining the research itself. Of course, this is where power is divided into the shortest joke as well as the presumption of innocence. "Personal", says Mr.Janakopoulos from the Arion Ice. "The greatest scandal of a recommendation from the Greek state", Mr. Papagelopoulos rules. "Authorized by Prime Minister, the issue comes to the House," says Mr. Kontonis. Mr Paulakis seems to know who the protected witnesses, as he did not have to, are in his statements. And if that's not enough, there are some questions that raise suspicions of drunkenness. First, why didn't they come to the House without delay in November 2017 when the testimony of the guarded witnesses began and waited for this particular juncture? Secondly, why wasn't the main witness, Mr. Guardis, being called to testify? Thirdly, how are the rational leaps made by witnesses accepted? It is not just about events, it also draws conclusions, which either involve or dismiss persons. "A alpha probably took it," "no less than that," "he was a friend of beta, so beta must have taken it," "the gamma cannot be known, etc." We are essentially counting on these statements. That's a fourth question. If the offences have been dropped, as the SYRIZA - ANEL proposal says, what will pre-examination do? The proposal says that the committee will examine whether or not bribery and bribery took place in the duties of the Ministers. So we're gonna send them to the special court, if we have any suspicions that they were bribed for something other than ministerial service? And what could that be? A transfer of soldiers or a good recommendation for Dancing with the stars? Is that what we're talking about? Is there a bribery, not connected to ministerial duties? Don't be fooled. That's a fifth question. Why is Mr. Kourublis not with the ten since he was in the referral room? Because they decided in their proposal that it was not his fault for the non-invoicing of medicines in 2015, but it was the troika. How they took this opinion and did not draw similar conclusions to others is a question mark. Because after all they will deprive Mr Kurubli of the opportunity to claim it and point it out here himself in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said so from the outset 'all in light'. "Everything in the light," however, does not mean everyone in the handkerchiefs and let them prove they are not guilty, as Mr Kotzias said the other day. "Everything in light" means methodical research, without unconstitutionally involving political persons in the work of justice. ‘Everything in the light’ means that the damage caused by the company is sought in the public interest and that such damages are claimed. "Everything in light" means that justice is not confined to vague testimony of protected witnesses. "Everything in light" does not mean undermining research with its political bike. "Everything in light" means the responsibilities of non-political persons, doctors, service actors, to be attributed where they exist. We haven't heard anything about it. No self-criticism from their collective organs. Colleagues of the Couple, the 'all in light', remember it and when the courtesy of Mr. Kammens's defects comes to Parliament in Saudi Arabia. It cannot be "all in light" to be "all in our light". There's no transparency in drugs, but there's no lesions. We have to learn from this case. The Law of Ministers, Article 86 of the Constitution, is one of the first to be revised. It protects the ministers, progressing very quickly to the limitation and binds to the prosecutors when they fall into a political person. The golden incision between protection and immunity must be found. Let me give you an example of this from the sporting field. The doping was severely affected, when the limitation time began to increase and keep the samples for eight years. And we have several examples of athletes, who with new more advanced methods of analysis were found to have used banned substances and removed the medals. The athletic parentheses are closed, but it is very teaching. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been in favour from the outset and we are in favour of the establishment of the so-called 'pre-review committee', since this has arisen. As far as we're concerned, it's a one-way path for the investigation to proceed. A problematic law and a problematic one - not to say perforated - has been ‘enhanced in the handkerchiefs' ten people.’ Both the ten ballots of the procedure, and they disorientate. We don't have any defendants here. We are deciding on the establishment of the committee. And there might be other faces coming along. Are we going to put the ballots back in the House? However, by putting myself in the tenth place, what I wanted would be for the committee to be set up and for the investigation to proceed so that I could reveal the method or the inability to operate. And I really don't know which one is worse for the government. Because the pre-interrogative is, you know, a double-cut knife. It cuts off both sides. It can reveal the involvement of certain persons, but it can also reveal the government's manipulation or inability to manipulate. The fact is that we must not let the doubt rest. That is what we call it in advance. If you want to make a fast track preliminary just for the tatarakum of the case, and then, as in the case of Papantoniou that we had disagreed, you will say "I'm sorry, they've been filed", we won't play this game. We'll ask the pre-interrogator to do an essential job, calling on the key witnesses to testify and judge. We are therefore asking for a regular pre-review and not a monkey, just to hang out suspicions that make the political atmosphere toxic. Ladies and gentlemen, in a normal country with a serious political system at the moment we should be discussing the challenges in the Aegean and the attempted fragmentation of areas from our eastern neighbour. We should discuss the alliances that we should build and the exchanges for benefits - see Souda - because without alliances we are vulnerable. We should discuss the negotiations on the scorpion, economic turbulence and the progress of the bond, the debt negotiation, the negotiation of the fourth assessment. These things should be closed in a room and discussed about the best national policy. But that would happen in a normal country. Unfortunately, however, here in Greece regularity is the civilization, division, polarization. With them the system is nourished, but unfortunately it leaves the Greeks hungry, and the twin brother of polarism is populism. The modern Alkiviades feed him to death until populism eats them too. In conclusion, where we have arrived, the preliminary examination must proceed. But not like the soup that lets ink blur the waters and leaves, but goes to the end, so that the case of both "NOVARTIS" and the case of political manoeuvring can be investigated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Black. Mr Koukoutsi will now speak on behalf of the Independent Members. The Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Papagelopoulos, will follow and then Mr. Stournaras. Here, Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. "I refuse to touch up to the creature the public money, while we are in the midst of the ruins and people who are dredged in the last poverty. I prefer death rather than cheating people, trusting his fate in my devotion." Ioannis Kapodistrias. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a difficult time historically for our country. Our national topics are on a magnificence. The moments we live are historic to the country. In the face of these national issues, everything else is not of major importance. These hours, we need consensus, solidarity and flexibility. I think it is wrong, for example - and I quote this in this way - Mr Mitsotakis' attitude, who is Chief of Staff, not to go into the information with anyone - I am not talking about Mr Kammenos, but about any - Minister of National Defence. These hours it takes consensus and nothing else. Home is over ideologies, over colors, over parties, over micro-party purposes. At a time when everything is fluid, we had the impression, according to the terms of left-wing governance, that the country has some hope to return to 'normality' and to escape in August that even partially comes to us from the rocks of the Memorandum Committee. The problems of the place are unresponsive both within and outside the country. The present image of Greece in terms of the political scene is not only positive for improving the economic size and even gradual growth that we need. We have now come to discuss another 'NOVARTIS' scandal. We have, however, reached the point that we are actually discussing whether it is scandalous or not. In fact, the Swiss company, in practice, as a multinational company is responsible, like its rivals, for anti-competitive practices, of course. In Greece the drug expenditure has always been excessive, but in the last fifteen, twenty years it has become colossal. The practice of promoting their products is essentially economic warfare practices. The scandal, of course, is not just local but international. But in our country, unfortunately, economic crime has been far too high for several years. In 2015, NOVARTIS paid $390 million in the USA because it turned out to pay pharmacists to give patients expensive medications and even too strong, even though it was not necessary. In South Korea he paid a $50 million fine for doctors’ bribes. The same is true, of course, for competing US products. That is what they are asking for. In Greece, the damage suffered by the State alone by NOVARTIS touches the EUR 24 billion. According to the case-file, "NOVARTIS hatreds" to political persons, doctors, journalists and mediators amounted to 50m euros. The great orders for overcompensation eventually proved to be disastrous for the pockets of the insured and the insurance funds. The litigation on this scandal is politically difficult and how should it not be, of course, when it contains charges for bribery of former Prime Ministers and Ministers? Citizens are rightly outraged when they hear politicians accused of a body of serious offences, presented to the media and plead ignorance and surprise for their involvement. Of course our political system that pervades this country, but it never was ruthless with them. Tell me you, with the exception of a minimum of exceptions, who's great in this country, did pass the prison threshold? This phenomenon of impunity exacerbates their immunity and greed. In order to identify, of course, black money is very difficult. In these situations, when you arrive, in other words, to blame former Prime Ministers, Ministers and other servants for infidelity and bribery, you must have shown as much attention as possible and, of course, with absolute institutional coverage. Ladies and gentlemen, this country cannot be resurrected, there can be no suspicion of a rule of law, there is no national dignity, unless the last official body involved in such unfair transactions is judged. Lamoyas and non-lamayas exist in all political spaces, and because society's pressure for clearance will increase as much as time passes but also because economic sizes are huge, it is certain that in the course of time, there will also be much more going on in the forum. The phenomenon of corruption in our country has been at the heart of the crisis of the relations between society and the political life of the country. Let us not hide behind our finger, corruption in this place has now become an institution. It's a heavy conversation, but it's the truth. In this scandal because the scandal is real, nobody denies it, the structure of our state, which controls the price of the medicine, replacing the free market at the disposal of medical services. When monopolistic conditions arise for companies that have huge political links, how does the corruption of the authorities cause us to be embarrassed and surprised? For years now, our people have been awkwardly watching scandals without real punishment. However, the case of NOVARTIS has a specific character because it has a direct bearing on a public good with health and when we talk about health, we talk about human lives. Let us assume that, within the framework of a preliminary committee, there are some accusations and, in future, those accused of being accused or accused of being innocent. Will political responsibility be given for the non-proliferation of human life, for the inability of the ministers? The opposition says that the government has circumvented justice and institutions, but no one says that this government, in essence, has maintained the situation that it has found, the one left by the previous government. How perforatedly and morally and on one side are things done in this country, it also appears from the wording of all the parties involved. And what we have not heard lately, 'gulls', 'gang', 'lady', 'creams', intimidation of witnesses, re-institutions. Many people in our country are caught, caught and caught, living in a society where the law of the most powerful prevails and which, in essence, continues to cover them - see the law on the responsibility of Ministers. Through this whole process the universal sepsis of the political and socio-economic must no longer be concealed. According to our society's data, the problem is not one to steal the sprout, but not to get caught with it on the back. Our country was showing and showing a clear vine, in which it is becoming an endless food. There's a scandal. No one's denying it. There are no doubts. On the cedar and the doctors. Of course! But did the doctors increase the price of drugs? Save the country. It's true to be saved. But how will it be saved? From the 50th cut to the pensioner? And when the other guy hears out about the 50,000,000-dollar, or the 30,000-dollar, or the 100,000-dollar goes crazy. He tells you: "Where are we going? With the 50th year of mine?' It seems that justice will be guilty or innocent of this at the end of the day. And that's how it has to be. Of course Mr. Georgiadis said that justice reached the limits of ridiculousness. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh. Once in this Chamber when I protested against their attitude toward me and others, Mr Georgiadis said to me: "Be trust in Greek justice." Now has he reached the limits of ridiculousness? Yes, sir. They're complaining about protected witnesses. Who did this? Mr Mitsotakis is right when he says: 'Everything in light and transparency' and I hope that this will happen. Why? Is there no trust in justice and the protected witnesses? Strange things. As far as the criminal organisation is concerned, Mr Vorides, it is not here - I would like to say this: do not rush. A witness can find and say that you had a uniform appearance in an Armani suit, that you were slaughtering for an antibiotic training, and that you were selling protection in pharmacies and being found in the Koridal. That's how it happened to me. That's how I got into it. Mr. Voridis said that the names of some are not mentioned in the case-file but are indicted. My name has never been mentioned in any case and yet I'm a criminal. I wish you would not feel what I, my family, my neighbor and others felt, stigmatism. And I hope that you will be judged by a judiciary that is impotent to justice - with transparency. And you know why I wish it to you? Because I have specific ideology, I have faith, I have principles, I am a nationalist, and I'm not like you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias" organized by the Foundation, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Ilioupoli. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Following it from 2 February 2018 amendment and codification in a single text of 27 June 2001 Concession Convention between the Greek Government and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki S.A.’. and other provisions.’; (a) the Commission's proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations. Protocol 2724/1978 of 15 February 2018 Decision of the President of the Parliament "Recommendation and establishment of the Subcommittee on the study and treatment of the drugs problem" of the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, and (b) No. Protocol 2725/1979 from 15 February 2018 Decision of the President of the Parliament "Recommendation and establishment of the Subcommittee on "The debt and impairment" of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs. The relevant decisions have been posted to parliamentary transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u270	The speech is given by the Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Papagelopoulos. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to contribute my legal knowledge of the issue of the limitation of the so-called'ministerial offences'. But my speaking time is limited and I would like to make a few other points. That is why I would say on wheels that they are all in agreement that the issue of the criminal act of infidelity has been banned, while the criminal act of money laundering has not been dropped. I think that the act of bribery has not been omitted, because, as I have said, it does not take place in the exercise of ministerial duties but on that occasion. I could argue a lot of time, but as I said, I don't have the time. I will only invoke the speeches made by Mr Kastanidis, Minister for Justice in the PASOK government and Professor Prokopi Pavlopoulou, Member at the time of the New Democracy, who, with solid arguments, had the same view. I am presenting excerpts from the Minutes of the House with their speeches, in order to avoid unnecessary repetitions. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the presumption of innocence is one of the basic guarantees of fairness. As a prosecutor, I kept it with the greatest piety. I will try to keep it today, even though ridiculous and immoral lies and slanders of someone have angered me. But I have to keep it today. My brother, in this effort, has the particular appreciation I have for some of the people involved in the case. I would like to believe for them that there is absolutely nothing at all against them, but even if, unborn, something arises at their expense, I am not going to say anything at their expense. Our relationship comes from a long time ago, and I've never been a lousy guy, and everyone who knows me knows me. However, the presumption of innocence was undermined by Mr Samaras at the expense of the Prime Minister, myself, the prosecutors and the protected witnesses. I am therefore obliged to refer to the intimacy, slandering and at the same time funny attacks which have taken place within the framework of its defensive line of diversion and intimidation. I fully understand the difficult position of some people. I sincerely hope that everyone will prove innocent. But some have to understand that their reactions do not help them at all and their defensive line is completely wrong. Is there a reasonable man who can not think, but even think for a while about the paranoid claim that for an international scandal being investigated by the FBI, I as the executive arm of Tsipras, following his orders, have set up and guided such huge constructions? If that is the case, I am being accused of being Deputy Minister of the Greek Government. I must, immediately, upgrade and take up duties of at least the FBI, the CIA. Let us look at Mr Samaras' argument about the alleged construction at his expense. It invokes, in particular, my statement that the NOVARTIS scandal is the biggest scandal in the Greek state. I would remind you that in my statement I have not mentioned Mr Samaras or anyone else. I would remind you that I made this statement, after a brief, partial - I repeat, in part, so I said and can look into it in my statement - information from the Minister responsible about the size of the scandal and about the political persons involved. Watch out. I have spoken about partial information and Mr Georgiadis falsely repeats that I have said informal information. It's no accident. It is another attempt to falsify reality, in order to create impressions that the process provided for by the Constitution and the law is suffering. I would also remind you that the relevant Minister, Stavros Kontonis, stated that the Novartis scandal is greater than the SIEMENS scandal. I would also remind you that the previous prosecutor against corruption, Mrs Ryku, an experienced and competent prosecutor, who was already in her post on the Government of Samaras, included in her letter of resignation about a year ago, just before her second term of office expired, among other things: firstly, a complaint about a plan of moral extermination - her words have been copied by the big interests in the drug field and targeting the decentralised authority and corruption, which are aimed at a single cover-up of corrupt state officials, who have been earning millions of euros over the years and seek the cancellation of the project and the prevention of 'Novartis' research, not only. Let some people think with their pillow, exactly what Mrs Ryku means with her above-mentioned complaints. Did Mrs. Riku, with her great experience and intelligence, see where the investigation was leading? Did he want to avoid what the prosecutors currently exist against corruption? Did she be afraid of anything else that she knew and we're missing? Secondly, it considered that there was a likelihood that there would be significant transfers from the NOVARTIS account from Switzerland and other stakeholders, possibly politicians. He noted that, until then, EUR 28 million had been detected. Thirdly, it described the 'NOVARTIS' as a rival of corruption in our country. We must not forget that the FBI survey on NOVARTIS had already started and was under way and Mrs Ryku was in contact with the US authorities. If I remember correctly, she had recently moved to the United States, just before her resignation, to cooperate with the FBI and to be informed of the information obtained. Yesterday I read on the website of "KATHMERINI" a republishing on the websites of "DER SPIEGEL" and "DIE PRESSE" of Austria: "The biggest scandal in the history of the state". It means the Greek and it says more that you can look for them. It also says that Greece will hardly absorb the shock from the research findings. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Does Mr Samaras have to rethink and sue Kontonis, Ricos, Kathiemeni, DER SPIEGEL, DIE PRESSE, the FBI researchers and the FBI director, who wastes the valuable time of researchers and money from American taxpayers to join the FBI and support the construction that Tsipras and I have set up at his expense? Now that I think about it, he should also sue the American President, which allows the FBI to continue its investigation. It would be a good idea to sue any other foreign leader as well, not to mention any other investigations in any other country. Ladies and gentlemen, research into the enormous scandal of "NOVARTIS" continues and will continue from Greek justice and from the FBI. Let some people not be in vain. The terrorist operation - because it is obvious that the worst form of terrorism is under way - will not pass. They are directly threatened, in order to be terrorized, judicial officers, witnesses, and even the Prime Minister of the country. In this effort they did not hesitate to invoke their power in the state mechanism but also in non-state mechanisms with threats of persecution and extermination. I wonder, then. In the case of “17 November”, “Golden Dawn” and in other cases the witnesses are rightly protected, in accordance with the legislation in force before the current government, the international obligations and the Palermo Convention, etc. In the ‘NOVARTIS’ case, they are converted into ‘hullers’. Apart from the knowledge of some about the 'gullars' action in the past, there will certainly be some other reason. Mr. Samaras also reported a gang recommendation. His obsessions and post-war partnerships are obvious to him. He also referred to my capacity as former EUPM Commander in 2009, in the last three months of the Government of New Democracy. I'm not ashamed of that. Let the Members and, above all, the simply ignorant voters of the New Democracy about the motives and objectives of Mr Samaras for this report. To solve his problems, he creates greater problems in his resignation. Mr Samara, if you want, you can go back. Probably in the October revolution, in 1917, I had an active role. I won't go that far back. I have had enough of your behaviour from 1993 until today. Mr. Samaras, you're trying to connect the so-called construction to the Macedonian. My supernatural abilities must be added to the divine gift of insight and the prophetic abilities that allow me to predict the future. Otherwise, how does it explain to know many months ago when I set up a service against you, causing the FBI's investigation to raise a question of Macedonian?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u272	Who are you protecting now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u273	Please be quiet. There's no point in creating issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u274	Who are you protecting now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u275	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u276	Thank you for the descriptions they give me, and I congratulate some people on their kindness and morality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u277	You got prostates!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u278	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u279	I've never had prostates. Others have prostates. That's why I've been beating myself ruthlessly for too many years. But I'm not going to give up. I'm coming back to find the edge of my erection. So I asked. How does it explain to me that many months ago, when I set up the building, provoking the FBI's investigation, it would be a matter of Macedonian? In fact, he says, I had predicted that the rally would take place in Athens on 4 February, and that is why I had taken care of it on 5 February - that is, the next day, the case-file of NOVARTIS would be sent to Parliament. Mercy! That kind of fantasy touches the limits of insanity if it doesn't get over it. But it's not the first time Mr. Samaras has used Macedonian as an alibi. He did so in 1993, when he dropped the New Democracy government. I would remind you, however, that the rumours at the time for the real causes of fall. I won't say anything else. I refer to the memory and judgment of every neo-democrat. Everyone has his story. Mr Samaras also called for the lifting of the telephone secret and the confidentiality of my e-mail, in line with a prior statement by the Minister of Justice of his government. I ask them straight. Do they know anything about illegal out-of-state actions? By the way, I don't have an e-mail and I don't use it. Do they judge the perverts themselves? I would remind you that Mr Athanasios had confessed that during the Golden Dawn apology, he contacted judicial officers, so that he could be informed and then inform Mr Samaras. The terrorist operation against public prosecutors, protected witnesses and political opponents is not just wrong defending tactics and a sample of great panic, it is also revealing fascism and great political slip! [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] But it's even worse. It's a maximum democratic diversion. The threats that we will be imprisoned and the various suggestions, specify and refer to mafia methods and insinuating mechanisms. Really what does Mr. Samaras mean when he says he'll take us to the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u280	Mr. Samaras again?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u281	I hope that it does not mean the end of our lives, our physical extermination or our moral extermination with illegal acts and methods of para-state mechanisms. For our judicial extermination, I don't ask. She's already announced it. With all the threats and implied ones, however, some bear a great responsibility. For everything that happens to prosecutors, protected witnesses and those who have been targeted or are going to be targeted in the future, even a pot falling on their heads randomly on their walk, you know what everyone will think. Let us not forget that there has been an attempt at suicide, a strange fatal accident in two people involved in the NOVARTIS scandal and violent actions against journalists involved in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u284	I too, Mr President, have been asking for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u285	Look, the Minister mentioned many names. First he mentioned Mr. Samaras. If everyone asks for the floor, I do not want to have an interactive debate. In other words, if you are going to ask the Minister, to take the floor again, etc., I think that would be out of order. If you are going to make up for something you are concerned about, I would be happy to give you the floor. To what is the staff, Mr. Athanasios?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, it is not just a question of staff being reproached to a Member. The second subparagraph of Article 68(2) also consists in falsifying what the Member said. I'm in second case. Indeed, as Minister of Justice in Brussels for the Conference of Ministers for Justice, I learned the incidents in Hope for the apology of the accused of the Golden Dawn. I got the head of the provincial court to see what's going on and let me know what's going on. I never intervened to speak with the interrogators. In fact, I said that my telephone conversations would also be opened, and if there were a call from me to the judges at the courthouse and then the appealing interrogators, I would also resign from a Member not only from the Minister. This, Mr. Papagelopoulos, is different. But what did I say about you? And I'll say it now. If things are simple, you alone can open the telephone conversations - we do not tell you that we will open them - with Mrs Toulupakis and you will see that for the last two, three months you have been talking from your phones.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u287	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u288	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u289	They heard them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Athanasios, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u291	They heard them. Don't complain. No one was watching them. Don't bother you. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Athanasios, the staff are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u293	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u294	No one was watching them. They heard them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u295	Who was listening to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u296	They were heard by the secretaries of service at the first court...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Athanasios, the staff are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u298	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Athanasios, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u300	I know you've been disturbed by a few things, but you'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Athanasios, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u302	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as what she said that Mrs Ryku was concerned, the Samara government has set her up, Mr. Papagelopoulos is lying. Ms. Riku was appointed by a decision of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Athanasios, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u304	I'm done. With the measures that we have taken on corruption, our country in the international table of countries presenting corruption has improved by twenty-five positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Athanasios, the staff are done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u306	Fifteen posts have been reduced in your day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u307	Now, the files have been opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u308	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I have asked for the floor for a minute too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Georgiadis, excuse me. If there is to be an interactive debate I will not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, I will only need one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u312	I give you the floor to tell us what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u313	The Deputy Minister of Justice, referring to my face, said: 'Georgiadis constantly reports informal information and not partial'. I would like you, Minister, to tell me which text of the Constitution you can receive a formal update of the file. Now I want you to take the floor and tell us how you had the right to receive a formal update of the file.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u314	No, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u315	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u316	You can't say anything you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u317	Because you can't get a formal update of the folder - and you know it - because it's forbidden to open the folder, so what you did is informal. That's why I said it. The illegality, Mr President of Parliament, and the violation of the Constitution lies precisely in this. On the same day Mr Papagelopoulos knew - and by his own statement - with partial information - atypical, I will say, because the Constitution does not formally permit - what was said in the file and the next morning Mr. Kontonis did the unimportant to ERT1. Before the file arrives in the House, he analyzed my statement against me on Greek TV. If that is not a violation of the Constitution, I do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u318	But that's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u319	I'm closing up with this: Mr. Deputy Minister, why were you afraid to open your phones?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Georgiadis, this is not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u321	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Georgiades, in your speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u323	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u324	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u325	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u326	This is not personal. Please delete. Do you want to answer, Mr. Papagelopoulos? If so, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u327	Once again he falsifys my words. In my speech - I have it in front of me, you can see the Minutes - I said that it was not placed by the Samara Government, but by the Government of Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u328	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u329	What it means is that Mrs. Tulopakis was placed in the SYRIZA Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u330	Wrong, by decision of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Athanasios, don't interrupt me. People understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Athanasios, please. It's not right. That's not how it's going to be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u333	I said more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u334	As for Mr. Georgiadis, I'm not going to follow him into an impression show. The Greek people understand and I'm afraid of nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u335	So the phones don't open them!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u336	Please, Mr. Georgiadis. Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u337	First of all, you talk to me in the plural, because you represent a large part of the spirit...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u338	Do you know what you said here? Then!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u339	What's next? Are you threatening me?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u340	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u341	Please! You'll have the floor after you say what you want. Not now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u342	You're rude. You do not have the right to speak in Parliament. Administer to communication show and continue to threaten. I'm not afraid of anything. I would even like to state that, when the case-file comes to the House for the complaint against me, I will propose and propose that there be a preliminary inquiry committee, that the phones be opened, that other phones be opened. Because no call from me has any illegal act. These shows are a sample of panic and incomplete defense line.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u343	So the phone calls are done, that's!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u344	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u345	The rest of you tell the channels, Mr. Georgiades, when you walk!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u346	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, may I have the floor? I want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u348	What do you want, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u349	He doesn't have the right!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u350	I'm asking...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u351	There is no government in this procedure. It's a parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Georgiadis, he asked for the floor, and I ask him what he wants. I didn't give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u353	He has no right to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u354	I want to make a statement about some unheardless things that have been heard!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u355	Get out and make a statement. You can't do this here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u356	Good. We'll proceed with Mr. Stournara and then. I've already told Mr. Stournara. Please, Mr Stournara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been hesitant for a moment to decide whether or not I would ask to speak in plenary or whether I would limit myself to tabling a memorandum. Would the office of the central banker I am serving require my absence from the Chamber today and my confinement to a written report of my evenings? Or should I, in order to defend myself, even give up my office, so that it is not even given to resentment or mistrust in the impression that I am using this office as a shield against justice, which of course has every right to control anyone's complaints against whatever office he holds? However, I hesitated only for the moment. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] My absence from Parliament could reasonably be seen as a despair of parliamentary institutions. At the same time, it could also be taken as a question of independence, which the Treaty of European Union and national law reserves over central bankers in the euro area. This independence would obviously be in doubt, if, on any unproven charge, any alleged malicious suspicion and claim against him, the Governor of the Bank of Greece was prompted to resign from his duties on grounds allegedly of equilibrium. It would thus confirm the erroneous assumption that the Bank of Greece and its Governor are not so independent of the government in question and that the unproven charges and slander claims, which of course have to be checked, used as a vehicle, to undo or bend the independence of the central bank or to attack the independent mind of its commander. First of all, I am here as Governor of the Bank of Greece to confirm the independence of its operation and of its governor. But I could not be absent from here today for a more personal reason. While the Rules of Procedure allow the House to be heard with the permission of the House, it does not show the same generosity for other people, who are obviously indirectly or directly accused because they are relatives of former Ministers. In my case, of course, this is my wife Lina Nikolapoulou. My wife Lina Nikolopoulou founded the company "MINDWORK" in 2008, that is four years before I was summoned - by the then service government of Takis Pikrammenos and then the tripartite government in July 2012 - to take over a Minister of Finance. The object of the company's work is to provide consultancy services, marketing services, public relations, advertising, communication, organising conferences and related services mainly in the health sector, which my wife has been serving for thirty-four years from different positions. Lina is a biologist with a doctorate in neurophysiology from the University of Oxford. Before setting up her company, she had worked for twenty-four years in the academic space in the UK and then in the business sector - multinational and local - drug, health and communication. Despite the adversities, which I will mention immediately below, which relate to my own targeting, this exemplary company in 10 years of operation has contributed to the public finances by paying taxes of EUR 1.7 million, while it does not owe 1 euros. Before I refer to this indictment, I would like to say that since the year 2013 my wife and her company have been discredited and slandered on occasion with a final objective always me. I'm reminiscing incidents. July 2013. Information campaign of the National Pharmacopoeia Agency. My wife's company took over it with another company after an international competition, awarded in spring 2012, before I even became Minister. And yet it was written: "The wife Stournara has her way". The obvious thing about slanders is that he took the job because I was Minister. But I wasn't. In fact, for this project, they had given the lowest price. For months, however, they reproduced these publications. This Decision shall enter into force on the An information campaign on cancer. Press release then: "They baptized the cancer infectious to get millions of the Stournara family". What's the target? It's me. It was a two-year co-financed NSRF project. He was awarded to an association of two companies, which participated in my wife's company following an international competition in October 2010. It was delivered in January 2013, paid in June 2013, verified by an on-the-spot verification by a managing authority. But hundreds of defamatory articles were written, reproduced and still written. This Decision shall enter into force on the Invasion of Economic Police at the offices of the company "MINDWORK" on September 15, 2016, on the day that the Bank of Greece would decide, as it did, to change the board of directors of a bank for reasons of inappropriateness, fit and properity. They conducted an illegal investigation and confiscation of books and data as well as the entire electronic file of the company. It was an illegal invasion, because in the order of the prosecutor of corruption crimes there is talk of a recurring case, without the case being identified anywhere in the report, and to this day it has still not been known. The misuse of power is clear, as full on-the-spot tax has been carried out, without the necessary conditions being met, i.e. without prior notification of a relevant tax administration decision, without the act of the head of the tax administration. It's completely invalid. Even today, seventeen months later, her records have not been returned. Well, that's a big deal about the investigation. He didn't make anything. Let's come to the present. The charges at the expense of my wife and her company by the unknown protected witnesses of the NOVARTIS case, which of course always aim to me, are as follows: Firstly, ‘MINDWORK’ was used to provide advice, market research and other services. For example, "a tour was organized on Greek islands for journalists. The journey included an increased invoicing of funds through the ‘MINDWORK’. These two proposals refer to the famous FBI document, which, incidentally, shows me as a central banker in Greece from June 2012 to the end of 2013, i.e. I was a Minister of Finance. This document also mentions other gross inaccuracies, such as that I have established IOBE. As you know, IOBE was founded in 1974 and continues the document below: "MINDWORK" was the organizer and was compensated for participation in the conference. The amount of EUR 4,000 was low compared with the amounts of previous years.’ In other words, the author admits that the remuneration of "MINDWORK" was low compared to other years. Why was there nothing of the epilepsy? But I'll come back. One of the protected witnesses under the code name Catherine Kelesi in its statement of 1 December 2017 states: “The amount of the rewards received by MINDWORK” was disproportionately large compared to the services offered by the conferences and many covered money, which was given as gifts to Giannis Stournaras. The complete and undeniable truth is the following. Never has the ‘MINDWORK’ received a higher remuneration than appropriate, according to the market in its field of activity. And how could he anyway? MINDWORK’s services at its conference also bought many other services. How can it impose another invoice on one and another invoices on another? There are contracts, deliverables, purchase orders, all payments are made through a bank. The financing of NOVARTIS at the conferences of ‘MINDWORK’ is not different from that of other companies. ‘NOVARTIS’ is one of the hundred large companies that are customers of ‘MINDWORK’. In the 10 years of operation of the "MINDWORK", "NOVARTIS" is a minimum contribution in its turnover and is 3.6%. This demonstrates that NOVARTIS was of very little importance to the financial result of ‘MINDWORK’. In this respect, the Commission notes that, for the contested period of July 2012-June 2014, which I was Minister of Finance, ‘NOVARTIS’’s grants at the conferences of ‘MINDWORK’ constituted only 2,3 % of its turnover less than the entire period 2009-2017. In addition, the total remuneration of ‘MINDWORK’ for services to ‘NOVARTIS’ in the period 2010-2015 is basically reduced, not increased. It is worth noting that the greater involvement of NOVARTIS in ‘MINDWORK’ has been recorded in 2010, that is, long before the period of my service. The most special series of "MINDWORK" sponsorships from "NOVARTIS" at the sixteen conferences that participated from 2009 until today is EUR 155,000, average expenditure per conference of 9,600 euros. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a turnover, it is not a reward. The tick is paid for the costs of third parties, i.e. hotels, food, printing etc., which average 60% - 65% of the turnover and are deducted, to determine the company's gross profit. Gross profit after deduction of operating costs, wages, rents, insurance contributions, maintenance, to determine net profit before tax. Then tax on profits shall be deducted to determine the net profit after tax has been paid. All of this has been included in our 'possibly' years now very clearly. In Greece, more than seven hundred medical and pharmaceutical conferences and events are organised every year in the territory of the FIFG - and they are well manifested, because this is how the world learns - a total of EUR 33.5 million. "MINDWORK" organizes in Greece, very few conferences a year from the total, about 3 in Greece alone. The "NOVARTIS" at 33.5 million on the market participates at around 2.5 million a year, i.e. in the nine years of the operation of the "MINDWORK" "NOVARTIS" totalled 22.5 million euros in conferences, while only 7; from its budget was its sponsorships at sixteen conferences of "MINDWORK", i.e. the 155,000 euros I told you, totalling 22.5 million. As regards the event for journalists, to which I referred earlier, this is an educational event that MindWORK organised for "NOVARTIS" on 8 July 2013 in Poros. ‘MINDWORK’, listen to this, invoiced a total of EUR 20.090. Of these third-party costs amounted to EUR 14,909,20. Its gross profit was around EUR 5000, 5,181 euros. This is the only educational event undertaken by my wife's company, organized her on behalf of "NOVARTIS" outside Athens. This company is therefore not alleged to have organized tours on the islands for journalists, as it is written in the proposal by the Members you are discussing. The pluralism figure is probably due to the noble generosity of Members who sign the proposal and not to the litigation that has been passed on to Parliament. The above evidence shows that the awards of services by NOVARTIS to my wife’s company are officially known, transparent, evidenced by legal documents and tax data, which were and are already at the disposal of the authorities, since in addition to the normal tax controls, it has, as I mentioned above, been seized by the electronic file with all the company’s accounting data on 15 September 2016. The remuneration resulting from these services to my wife's company is reasonable within the framework of the market for such services. And it's negligible and obviously cannot be used for bribes of mine or other policies. Besides, the FBI document nowhere says that was the case. On the contrary, it states that the remuneration of my wife's company was low in relation to the amounts of previous years paid by NOVARTIS, as I mentioned before. Whoever claims this document, therefore, to confirm his suspicions or suspicions, will have to find other arguments, facts and methods and not the legal transactions of the wife's company with NoVARTIS. Secondly, there is another special reference to a specific transaction of my wife's company with NoVARTIS. It is the testimony of the same witness as the code name Katerina Kelesis, of 1 December 2017 and of 5 January 2018. According to this statement, my wife's company organized the final event "Harvard Project" at the end of 2013 at the Concert Hall of Music, which was allegedly bribed among other things by me, Adonis Georgiadis and Antonis Samaras. So this witness testifies that, through the reward received by my wife's company, part of the money was washed away from bribery. But let's look at the incidents. The final event for Harvard Project was, in fact, organized by my wife's company not at the end of 2013, which the witness said but on March 21, 2014, not at the Concert Hall of Music, which the witness says but at the "King George" Hotel and was under the auspices of the Athens University of Medicine. Announced, listen to this, by 'MINDWORK' 20,875 euros. Third-party costs were 18,449,24. Therefore, it remained in favour of ‘MINDWORK’ with a gross profit of EUR 2,400. Therefore, this EUR 2,400 in the guard was used to wash off some of the millions with which Antonis Samaras was bribed, Adonis Georgiadis and I were bribed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u358	Mercy! What are those things?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u359	Be careful, because these will soon be performed at the Delfinari. Here, then, obviously, is the slander of the accusation against my wife and her stupid company. But that, in order to prove to be stupid - from the first gruesome slandering and numerously dangerous character of the testimony of the protected witness or of his stumbler - I had to come here today to the Greek Parliament and apologise to my wife for what she has endured for all these years because she is married to me. It seems that it is part of the fate of the spouses and families of public persons in that country, that they are mutilated, slandered, crossed, even threatened, in order to hurt the husband. I apologize to her and ask her to be patient. You will now allow me to come to the general point of pharmaceutical expenditure. It is worthwhile and gives the impression that the indictment includes those politicians, who have drastically reduced the public pharmaceutical expenditure since 2010 and also the share of NOVARTIS in the market. I would remind you that public non-homogeneous pharmaceutical expenditure, in order to use the definitions correctly, reached a peak of EUR 5.1 billion in 2009, and began to decrease from 2010 onwards. Especially at the time when I was Minister of Finance with fellow health ministers - at that time - reached a minimum of EUR 2 billion in 2014 and remained at that level, although I think it has increased a little. Significant reductions in drug prices, structural measures such as e-prescription, the reintroduction of a positive list of prescription medicines, as well as interventions in the profit rates of pharmacy and drug stores contributed to a significant reduction in expenditure. On another perspective in 2009, public pharmacological expenditure per inhabitant was EUR 460, and was reduced to EUR 183 in 2014, a development that brings Greece to the latest positions among member countries in the European Union. As far as NOVARTIS is concerned, not only has its turnover been drastically reduced over this two-year period, but according to IMS figures, its market share decreased from 9.2% in 2011 to 8.9% in 2012, to 7.7% in 2013, to 7.5% in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, after explaining the two reasons why I have chosen to come to the House today, I come to the proposal for a accusation concerning me or else on the proposal to prosecute the thirty Members of the SYRIZA, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Rule 154 which is currently being discussed in accordance with Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure. I, ladies and gentlemen, am not a lawyer. I read, however, in paragraph 3 of Rule 154 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure that the proposal to prosecute must clearly identify the acts, omissions, which, according to the law on the responsibility of the Ministers, are criminal and mention the provisions that have been violated. I am sure that, although the content of the case-file is known to all - and not just - the Members' proposal does not describe it as the clarity laid down in the provision. There is no record of what or what criminal offences the honourable Members are giving me that sign it. Instead, it is proposed that the following should not be prosecuted for the acts of infidelity that I may have, inter alia, allegedly committed on account of an amortization deadline. However, with all due respect to the proposers, it is not in their power and is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure for a non-prosecution, even if the proposers have found an amortisation deadline but only a proposal to prosecute them. Secondly, with regard to the acts of bribery and bribery that I may have, among other things, allegedly committed, it proposes that a Special Parliamentary Committee should be set up to carry out a preliminary examination in order to investigate the competence of Parliament, to exercise or not related persecution and, in any event, to confirm the jurisdiction of Greek justice. However, the proposal to prosecute cannot limit the competence of the parliamentary committee to be set up only on the matter of its competence. Its obligation under the Constitution is to examine the charges, suspicions, evidence and to issue a finding that will be entered in the House to decide whether to prosecute. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] You'll give me two more minutes, Mr. President. With regard to the lack of clarity that characterises the proposal, I am obliged to say what your colleagues have avoided including in their proposal, namely that unknown witnesses who have been placed under the protection of the public prosecutors have testified for my face - for my wife I spoke before - during the period when I was Minister of Finance, from June 2012 to June 2014, that I was bribed with at least EUR 1 million brought to my office by Constantine Frozis at the Ministry of Finance in order to offset the tax debts of NOVARTIS with public debts to it. They have also testified for my face that 65 million euros were disbursed to NOVARTIS by decision. Ladies and gentlemen, these testimonies as a whole are completely false. I have never signed such decisions, nor have I had such a responsibility, but I think no one else has signed them. In vain I ask weeks now to show me my relevant decisions and the signatures I have made to implement. They just don't exist. It is no coincidence that the witnesses accurately repeat in their statements what has long been a well-known Sunday newspaper, which has almost been taking on the defamation of me and my wife. Sadly, what they testify to has never happened to all of them. I call on the House and the committee to be set up to confirm my claim that these testimonies as a whole are completely false, by applying the procedures provided for. I have the right to raise this requirement to you, because by using the procedures provided for by the Constitution and the Rules, these false accusations which are brutally and disgustingly affecting the core of my personality, my honor and my dignity, showing me as an unbelievable state minister, who has been bribed to harm his homeland, have been spread over the Greek people and have also been spread abroad and have brutally affected the prestige of the country's central banker. The same processes used by object to spread the poison of the false slander, all need to be used to remove, to the extent possible, its effects. That is why even if the pseudo-christian witnesses are not finally pulling out the hood of anonymity, it is necessary that the Greek Parliament should not surround the procedures which are currently being opened with the proposal - including for my persecution. Not at the amortization deadline, then. Not in the proposal for a non-prosecution due to a dampening deadline, which conceals pettyness, to maintain the slander pharmacies pharmacopoeia pharmacopoeia drastically without the defence's antidote. Establishment of the committee set up by the Constitution today, in order to examine directly all the charges, which, for as long as they remain unproved, are shameful slanders. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take on the moral and constitutional obligation you have and protect the social system, from the consequences of the choice of staying on the ground and without consideration of the charges and thus turning into an institution, with your participation, the slandering into the public life of the country, because as Emil Zola said: 'If you hide the truth and bury it under the soil, it will grow and gather so much power in it, which on the day it explodes, will blow everything away in its path'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much Mr Stournara. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the list of speakers. One speaker and one of the speakers will take the floor alternately. Mr Dousinas has the floor for five minutes and immediately thereafter the former Prime Minister, Mr Pikrammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u361	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are at a high political and institutional moment and speaking after the central banker, I would first like to say that I considered the defence of his wife to be extremely honest and decent. On the other hand, the rest of the issues he has raised are precisely the matter of the committee to be set up by the House or the judicial authorities to which the whole case will be referred. But I had to say that, because I really think he made a decent presentation. History and the Greek people are calling us today to decide how to deal with "Novartis gate", how to respond to the enemies of democracy, who, under the motto "all themselves are", are trying to denouncing politics by handing over the public interest to the markets, to the multinationals and to the extremists of power. When I read the FBI documents from the file, I was overthrown by the detailed practices of bribery and black money laundering. The scandal is global. The company has paid fines in too many states. However, the cynicism of the company and its associates in consuming our seated people exceeds every limit. Jurisdiction is a monument of crime in a system of power, which has no obstacle to the pursuit of profit, a cynical elite that knows the honor of everything but the value of zero. But let me talk about the possible criminal responsibilities of political people. The current status of protection of Ministers, the combination of the constitutional provision and the law of the responsibility of the ministers, which does not exist in any of the major states, particularly as regards limitations, does not exist in Britain, there is no problem in Ireland, Belgium or Italy, which I think has been mentioned at the beginning of the meeting and by Mr Voridis and others. He has to go to the House without delay. So the envelope's not locked. The brief limitation leads to the end of this story. However, we have heard from those who have created this protection system that the case is a construction, mud, shadows of criminalizing politics. Historically the use of Criminal Law for political reasons has been used in our homeland against the Left. To make a distinction, the failed and harmful policies of previous governments must be evaluated politically, not criminally, but here we have things that are quite different. Controlled acts are serious crimes, possibly involving ministers. So we do not have a victus justice here, one of the victors who seeks to judge the moral distribution of their defeated opponents. We have one of the biggest scandals in Greek society. In 2011, five independent MPs put a timely question to Mr Loverdos, then Minister of Health, in which he refers to crimes that create constantly black holes, for costs that grow within a short period of thirty or fifty times. They also refer to crimes that are guaranteed in a number of years by a group blindness of those responsible. I'm going to put this question to the Minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u362	Say who they're signing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u363	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u364	Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Aygeakis, between five MPs. So that's a political thing? Before I reply to that - and I will only answer with the FBI documents and not with any protected witness - I would like to say that those called hoods in international literature are called whistleblowers. They're people like Elsberg of Pentagon Papers, like Water Gate's deep throat, like Ed Snowden and the revelation for global surveillance. They put the common good and the protection of democracy above their personal security. Every favoured state thanks them and protects them. Now let's see the FBI evidence. From here I will speak only with verbatim reports of the FBI report. Greece - starts the document - for the application of criminal law and for evidence in cases involving seven politicians - and mentions names - can use these elements in the occupation of the FBI, based on information that has been collected so far. These are the elements he collected and sent the FBI as evidence of possible duty of ministers. If we consider that the FBI gives us evidence of the responsibility of individuals, the FBI does the same in the text that speaks of the ministers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So let's get into some detailed reports. A verbatim. Companies and natural persons had contacts with Ministers. W M was closely involved in the 'NOVARTIS' bribery network. It was essentially a bridge between the company and government officials, having access to three - four ministers of health. Government officials and the Minister for Health were paid to import new products into the market and to protect against price reduction. The coup continues, noting that in 2011-2012 the pharmaceutical industry had large price reductions. NoVARTIS had no such reduction in oncology medicinal products and small reductions in other medicines. That's where the FBI data can be crossed, with what the ministers will know. I talked about Novartis gate. In the Water Gate scandal, President Nixon did not resign because of the burglary of the Democratic Party offices. He was forced to resign because he tried to prevent the case from being detected. The threats and dismissal of the special investigator, the famous Arcibald Cox, led Nixon to the end of his career. Who is trying today to terrorise the ministers of justice and prevent the enormous scandal from being detected? The government? Of course not. We have a reversal. They are the sues of the Vice-Population officials, the threatening artwork against judges, the efforts of those who have a hereditary right to power, to prevent the investigation with various terminology. Here lies the construction, the systematic effort to get another case of corruption into the drawer, and the judiciary in the underground abandoned in the wisdom of the mice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u365	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u366	I shall conclude, Mr President. No politician may have political responsibility. We'll see. I'm sure everyone was involved. Jurisdiction creates a moral and political obligation on our detested political system to put the knife on the bone. Today's initiative shows that for the Left it is not meant to be a policy that violates the principles of morality and justice. You have one last chance to help the clearance. I hope you don't just stay in the hurricane! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr. Doussina. The former Prime Minister, Mr Panagiotis Pikrammenos, has the floor for twenty minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u368	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have served for thirty-seven years in the Council of State, from which I left in June 2012. Shortly before my departure, I have been instructed by the then President of the Republic, Mr. Charles Papoulia, to form a ministerial government, to lead the country to elections. So I was an official Prime Minister for the period from 16 May 2012 to 20 June 2012, i.e. for thirty-five days. Today, six years later, I am here, before you, to face an impatient charge that I supposedly received a gift to promote the interests of a controlled company 'NOVARTIS'. In particular, in a case of huge volumes, the witness under the code name Catherine Keleteris, who is under protected anonymity - which is questionable, but I am not standing here - testifies at the end of the sixth in a row that, according to the claims made by the then Vice-President of the controlled company Konstantinos Fruzis, I received a gift to promote the faster payment of debts to the company from my position. The content of this statement is not a product of self-conceptive control nor is it even a personal assessment of facts. It is characteristic that in her category, which is all eight lines, three times it says "against the claims" and that "as the witness spreads". The witness who? The then vice president of the company? She's a person I've never had, and I've never had anything to do with. So I want to tell you that this is a false and unacceptable slander. At first I was surprised. But now I am overwhelmed by feelings of rage, indignation and frustration. In front of you today is not only the then Prime Minister of the few days. It is then the President-in-Office of the Council of State. In other words, I am accused of having been bribed as an active judicial officer. From the study of the case and the basic knowledge of the principles of our legal culture, it is clear that these fictional accusations do not constitute good evidence, nor sufficient evidence, to question moral integrity and to smash the personality of a man who has offered justice for over forty years. I handled many cases of great interest. Tell me. Has anyone ever heard of an insinuation against me? Never from anyone. And yet... [[Sustained applause]] Honestly, I'd expect a greater respect for my face. I say that because we kept our country standing in very difficult conditions. We did not then, at very difficult times, let our country go bankrupt. The 2012 Ministerial Government was invited to deal with very serious and, in particular, exceptional problems. I would point out, for example, that there were very tense relations between the country and the European Union, the recapitalisation of banks, the risk of a 'black out' in the country - these have not been known - huge daily withdrawals from banks and outflows that endangered liquidity and much more. I think we have acted soberly and solely in the defence of public interest and social peace. The main task of the government was to bring the country into normal elections. I think there was a smooth election at that time and there was never in any way any cause. Now I would like us to come to the point of the case. The witness therefore states that - according to the claims of the then Vice-President - I have received a gift, because from my position I have promoted the faster payment of debts to NOVARTIS. So in general and vaguely even though, of course, these claims are not a culmination of the witness’s creative imagination! I would like to tell you, therefore, that these claims have absolutely nothing to do with the reality for a very simple reason. In my Prime Minister and in the service of government, they were never paid by the Ministry of Health... [[Applause]] ...or any other body of the then service government money either to the controlled company or to any other pharmaceutical company. We did what we did was give EOPY and the hospitals money. I repeat, in order to make it very clear that, as Prime Minister, I have not handled a case 'NOVARTIS', nor I, nor the government. I would like us to refer to real events now, bypassing vague and slandering claims such as that of testimony. When the government took up its duties, it faced the following serious health problems. A hard strike of pharmacists, resulting in the non-implementation of prescriptions for the insured under EEA insurance, a lack of medicines and consumables in hospitals, a lack of high cost medicines for cancer patients and sufferers from other serious diseases in the pharmacy and public hospitals in the country, thus creating a strong social problem and daily statements and protests of sufferers and their associations in the media. Finally, we had the requirement of the Association of Pharmaceutical Enterprises of Greece, the TSE, to invoke new drugs from the Ministry of Health. I would like to tell you, therefore, that the government of service has not signed any administrative instrument invoking new medicines, and this, despite repeated protests by the CFO to the Ministry of Health. But Mr. Frouzis had also sent an extrajudicial to the then Minister of Health, Mr. Kitta. Nor did we issue any new price listing for medicines. We couldn't do these things. It's self-evident. We had to move within our competences. What it has to do with the first three issues, you will surely remember the very dynamic strikes of pharmacists at that time. You will also remember the very critical situation that was created due to the lack of medicines for cancer patients and daily noise in the media. I would like to give all this information here and ask you to take a look at them. [[At this point Mr Panagiotis Pikrammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All the parties had us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u369	Don't laugh!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u370	It is shameful that the speaker speaks and interrupts him by laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, Mr Paulakis is mocking the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u372	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect yourselves in your turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u373	You know very well that I haven't talked to you like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Kikilia, please. Mr. Polakis, you too. Let's respect the speaker. Keep going. I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u375	All the parties had then asked us to take steps to address these issues immediately, which we have done responsibly. This is how we have achieved within the limited possibilities we have had, to normalise a serious situation that has arisen. You will allow me to read a small quote from the press release of SYRIZA dated 4 June 2012, which contains statements by the then head of SYRIZA and current Prime Minister and recommending the establishment of the pre-review committee, Mrs. Tsipras, following his meeting with the then Minister of Health Mr. Kitta, who was former President of the University of Athens. Of course, in the file I delivered, there are corresponding statements and communications from almost all parties. I read: "Alexis Tsipras: I would like to thank the Minister and his staff, for the opportunity today to learn in depth about the major problems facing the National Health System, EEAY and the Ministry of Health as a whole." I'm skipping between. I am continuing: 'I have asked the Minister to do everything possible to address the problem, which occurred in shortages of medicines'. They are present here in the Chamber and other political leaders, who are directly aware of what I am presenting. That's exactly what we did. We never gave money to a pharmaceutical company or any other company. As I said before, the money we gave to solve the problem was at EEAS and hospitals. And the money we have given, we have always given it, according to what is provided for in the law and always in the budget adopted by the Greek Parliament. In this context, I honestly wonder, how can one, even the most illusory, seriously claim that I have promoted the faster payment of debts to the company 'NOVARTIS'. Ladies and gentlemen, when my name was mentioned in this case, I made a simple statement that I do not have any involvement. I repeat it today, and I hope with what I told you to convince you. What the witness submits is obvious about harming my honor and reputation, for which, in fact, I find it difficult to understand. But I also have an obligation to my family and myself to protect my reputation and honor. I would like to conclude by saying that this adventure may have bitterened me and directly hit me in my personality as a human and a former supreme judiciary, but it did not make me lose hope and courage. On the contrary, it gave me the opportunity to count my friends, who were found to be even more and made me feel very proud, because none of them ever thought at any time that this charge could be true. [[Applause]] Thank you for listening. I too wanted to beg that this case go to the end, that the truth shines and that I surrender myself to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u376	Thank you very much to the former Prime Minister, Mr. Pikramenos. Mr Panagiotopoulos has the floor from New Democracy. Immediately after that, Mr. Lykurenzo, the former Minister, will speak. Come on, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President. For those of us who say that they possess the absolute truth - that this is not exactly the case, the proposal of the government majority, ladies and gentlemen, it is a particularly problematic proposal to investigate the problem so far, as far as the smell of every scandal is concerned, because a multinational medicine that is transporting unfair and perhaps illegal methods of promoting international products and Greece as well, is obviously a case that has a scandal smell. A case, however, which is agitated by a completely problematic government, which chooses as its central policy of behaviour, the ruthless method of targeting and smashing political opponents, to divert public debate away from its own sad performance on all fronts, even the new ones that have the talent to open. This approach, in the end and unfortunately, undermines the in-depth investigation of the case at all levels. Because it's not just the level of political people. It is the work of justice that has already been done and produced. I very much fear that justice itself, insofar as it appears to be prone to procedural acronyms, vulnerable to selective pressures, will ultimately be positive when it comes to leaking information relating to the substance of the case in a secret - supposedly - stage of the criminal procedure to government officials willing to assess the substance, to draw conclusions from now annoying for opponents, to politically exploit the case. The proposal of this government majority is an invitation to investigate a possible competence of the House to prosecute very generally and completely unreasonably, as specific offences are not attributed to specific persons, such as a full proposal of prosecution must be laid down in law. Let us therefore debate whether there is a limitation on the offence of infidelity, if there is no other two, of bribery and passive bribery - the views of science differ there - and, accordingly, revert the case law to justice, since we will have confirmed by discussing its competence. A proposal of incomplete and problematic, a theoretical exercise. We say 'yes' to the in-depth investigation into the case, but with examination of the witnesses without the convenient veil of protection, but with regard to this proposal a vote. You do not accept it and it is not the only paradox. A lot of paradoxes in this story. Here's some: Prosecutor who finds the report of civilians for the first time in her investigation on November 6, 2017 and continues her investigation for another three months, instead of sending the file to Parliament without delay. Evidence of the involvement of the Greek Commissioner in the European Union, the Central Bank of the country, is assumed. Among other things, where is this material based? In speculation, assessments and rumours, which you provide in doses, memory glimpses unexplained, three-and-four deposits that bring two and three-page deposit pages at a time. And the central person in this case, Mr. Fruzzis, is not even invited to testify as a witness, perhaps because on the dates included in his diary, an appointment with SYRIZA government agents is also included. That's not working. The recent paradox, the most recent and most recent cryless, I would like to say: the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow legalising the three protected witnesses of public interest, by ordering him on 9 February of this year, which publishes this provision on 17 February 2018, when he has incidentally preceeded the previous day, on 16 February, our own request of MPs, with Mr Athanasios, with me, with others, to the Prosecutor, questioned whether this authorisation of the prosecutor exists. And it irreversibly legalises them, because the case-file has been transmitted to the House since February 6, 2018, and therefore only the House and any prosecutors have jurisdiction over any judicial action in the case. If that's not a drunkenness, if that's not a good reason to give us the impression that it's a mischief, then what is it, I wonder? Minister, which states that he has read the pleadings as being not due, he declares the scandal obviously because he is aware of the contents of the case-file, i.e. he is aware, that is, of course, of the fact that he is not due. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask for a moment's tolerance. I have the best in the end. A minister who says he knows the identity of a protected witness as a non-obligor, even saying that he is involved and "blocked" - for that reason, because he is involved - without knowing that if the witness is involved, then under the law he cannot be a protected witness and has an invalidity of all the evidence produced by his testimony. And he doesn't know them because they're legal. Isn't that right, Mr. Polakis? Ah, Mr. Paulakis is gone. Therefore, it stirs the evidence in the air by means of their indestructible use. Maximum bluff! But it is not just the knowledgeable and the prophet ministers. It's not only the Gafast Minister, it's also the Protected Minister, the Indignant P.C. - not the other P.C., we'll deal with him in a few days-- the P.C.P.'s. Illegal because Mrs Christodoulopoulos is not even named after Mrs Christodoulopoulos when celebrating the presence of the case-file in the House. It is not even mentioned in the proposal of the government majority, as if it had not been anywhere. In the first half of 2015, Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis was a health minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u379	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I would remind you that an amendment to No 4213/2015 provides for an obligation for the Minister of Health to carry out price reviews down twice a year. The multinationals had reacted. SYRIZA did not vote for this amendment. However, since then, all health ministers have issued a price card twice a year to reduce the cost of medicine. All except one, because in 2015 a price sheet was issued only once in December. Therefore, throughout the year there has been no reduction in the pharmacological cost of the Panagiotis Kourublis. The public is likely to lose a great deal of money from the non-issuance of the price card, resulting in no reduction in the costs of the Panagiotis Kourublis service.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you've been talking for seven minutes already. Please. Please. I want to be fair to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u381	I shall conclude, Mr President. These, gentlemen, are not laughing, as Mr Kurublis says. For laughter, it may be the assessment of the Port Corps that it has no involvement in the case. But these are not laughing because you tried to exclude Mr Panagiotis Kourublis from the government proposal. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like to say that you are choosing to drag the political debate and the entire public life of the country into a muddy field of polarization, toxicity and dissociation with guns, the tool of justice - very, unfortunately, but very clearly - and the method of systematically spiraling targeted political opponents, those who have a strong voice against you, voice of dissent, but also political factions in a way of equal, cynical and ruthless manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u383	You are not really seeking to investigate the case fully at all levels. You want to hurt rival annoying, and that's your only purpose. And all I have to say to all of this is that it won't pass on to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr. Panagiotopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for something. You all know that the time you have at your disposal is five minutes. Also, as you can see, there is a tolerance of one to two minutes. So please do not go beyond this because you are putting the Bureau in a difficult position and perhaps some colleagues are unable to talk this year, depending on where the whole meeting is going. I call on the former Minister, Mr. Lycharenzo, to come to Stepma. Here, Minister, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with mixed feelings, I return to the step of the Greek Parliament. Of course I never thought I could go back and speak in a case of litigation. That is why I am also possessed by feelings of anger and indignation. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the government majority which the House is discussing today in the chapter of the categories which are referred to as 'Progressive indications' is not an element that correlates to me with guilt. I chose to be here to respond straight and honestly, as I have always done from this sacred Step. I am here to state that I am not concerned with any legal assessments of limitations or other legal procedures. It's about revealing the truth. For the protection of my honor, I will reach the end no matter how much trouble it takes. I'm not going to let myself suffer a long drag. I shall use Rule 86(5) of the Constitution to set up a special committee to reveal the truth for me only. On my political route, in any case, I served the public interest with transparency and usefulness, with moral and political integrity. If I felt the slightest guilt, I wouldn't dare show up. That's my character. And those of the Members of Parliament who have joined together, as colleagues, know this perfectly well. Because we have fought many battles here for the country, for transparency, to serve the public and the national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a Minister of Health for a year: June 2012 - June 2013. As is well known and resulting from the FEK, Sheet 2105, 9 July 2012, issue B, the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Health, and therefore the design of pharmaceutical policy, the adoption of occasional lists of medicines, was not the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Health. I would like to say, in order to include the relevant FEC in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Andreas Lykourenzos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned FEC, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In my term of office, I signed no decision on the pricing of medicinal products, the issue of a price card or the pricing of new medicinal products. No personal relationship I had with any pharmaceutical company, any strain from buying the medicine. My decisions are published in the Official Journal of the Government and are obviously available to all interested parties. As Minister of Health, following the practice of a spiritual political teacher of mine, the relentless Kostis Stefanopoulou, I signed my decisions in cooperation with the Ministry hierarchy and the managers, who were the individual operators of the files. I asked for explanations and the rapporteurs had to convince me with legal arguments to put my signature on. There have been cases where I refused a signature. The officials and officials of the Ministry of Health, Mr Ministers, with whom we worked independently of political position, I am sure they can assure us. Call them to tell you how Minister Lycharentzos signed. I am surprised and am surprised by my name's reference to this case-file. They wanted someone or some people to give the impression that we're all dived in the mud of corruption. We're not! This is a mere false testimony. And I'm sorry about that. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one paragraph in the case-file of thousands of pages which mentions me. And I'm rushing to face her. The FBI doesn't blame me. There's no objective evidence. There's a "supposedly" one. The claim by the protected witness that as Minister, as if I were a medical visitor, I promoted products of a particular company. This claim is obviously not worthy of answer. He's incomprehensible. It escapes all possible or seriousness. Not only were we not favoured, not only were we encouraging the promotion of medicinal products, but we were watching with anguish every move, every development, to prevent the increase in pharmaceutical expenditure. Because in the face of the troika, the Deputy Minister responsible was not accountable. The government was responsible for achieving the objectives of the loan agreement. The political leaders of the government 2012-2015 implemented the country's commitments under the loan contracts and spectacularly reduced not only public pharmaceutical expenditure, but also expenditure on hospital supplies at the specified levels. When I left after the reshaped Minister, the memorial target was 1 billion. I'm the one who gave up 935 million. I was 65 million below the target set. That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, in the summer, July, August 2012, for example, we were informed that some eleven million recipes were recorded in the middle of the summer. Immediately we called General Manolis Sfakianakis. He received my own written permission to issue an appeal order, with a view to making the information available to HICP, to start the investigation and locate the perpetrators of provocative demand. Our initiative has been made public and has caused a variety of reactions. It did not, of course, have a favorable reception. They were not such initiatives at that time. They were being treated as an attack on the right to access the free health of citizens. It is characteristic that the President of Attica Pharmaceuticals intervened in our initiative. By letter dated 5 October to me he defends his fellow pharmacists, but notes: "If it is indeed a matter of prescribing by doctors, it is a very serious matter and needs further investigation." It notes the truth and makes the claim that every minister can promote company products. Kostas Lourados was the leading trade unionist of Attica pharmacists, who at some point during conflict with the government said that the pharmacies of the country would become SYRIZA elections centres. I mean, it's not someone who'd be friendly with us. I'm filing a copy of Mr. Lurantu's letter. [[At this point Mr Andreas Lykourenzos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The Association of Pharmaceutical Enterprises of Greece by letter dated 10 April 2013, at the end of my term, is addressed to the Minister of Finance, Mr Stournara, the Minister of Development, Mr Hatzidakis, and with a notification to Mr Andreas Lykourenzos, he complains about the delay for two and a half years in the authorisation and invoicing of new medicinal products in violation of European Directive 89/105, according to which price notes with new medicinal products are issued every 90 days. And he invokes various arguments. Mr. Frouzis as President, Vice-Presidents, Panagulias, General Manager Mr. Magalousi, namely the leadership of the TFEU, the leadership of the multinational companies that are active in Greece at that time. I have received a copy of this letter for the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Andreas Lykourenzos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is a letter that reveals our refusal to enter expensive medicines into the market, to raise the costs of pharmaceuticals, and they are denounced as inconsistent with the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, some of them have also sent us the message by means of numerous papers that we are in danger of dealing with the consequences of the law because of our alleged analgesia to patients' needs. Today they themselves are on the side of those who are trying to lure us, that we were supposedly promoting corporate interests. Then they spit on our politics and now they're trying to smash our honor. With Mr George Sourla, Secretary-General for Transparency and Human Rights, and I, as Minister on 19 June, organised a conference in which the causes and sources of corruption in the field of health were examined. Proposals were discussed to combat the morbid phenomenon. The remodel followed six days later, and I didn't continue as Minister. I was not in a position to legislate on the basis of the conclusions of the conference. I come to the second part of it against me of irresponsible reference. I was, I was supposed, concerned about the speeding up of payments by a particular company, Novartis. It's completely unfounded and false to place it. I didn't. But, in my opinion, it would be impossible to achieve this for two reasons: firstly, because ruthless competition between suppliers did not allow for any discriminatory treatment and discrimination. Under no circumstances would the President, the members of the EEAS Board of Directors and the officials who decided and signed it, accept this and tolerate it. The leadership of the EEAS established and applied the rules for the repayment of dues, the rules of equality, equal treatment for all, with transparency and integrity. The EEA administration issued the payment orders and not the Minister. And he was right to do it. Secondly, because of the fact that the leadership of the EEA was at the disposal of the Greek State, totalling 3,5 billion, was at the disposal of the Greek government. So there was no money specifically for some favored and privileged. The funds were in existence, the providers were paid out under the EEA rules, as I have already explained. The leadership of the EEAS has done everything possible to respond quickly to the objective of the loan contract. It is extremely enlightening that the agonizing letters of the then President Mr. Eleftherios Papageorgiopoulou on 27 May 2013, 29 May 2013 and 10 June 2013 are extremely enlightening. I submit them for information to Members through the Minutes. [[At this point, Mr Andreas Lykourenzos submits for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In any letter from the President of the EEA, I am not referring to my own speech. However, it is of particular importance to me and my attitude that the official responsible for the operation of the EEAS is addressing me, and the only one is aware of the behaviour of the Ministers as soon as I leave the Ministry: "The role you have played has been decisive for the upgrading of public health in our country, while your offer and your work will be recognized over time by society, because EEAY is and will remain the National Health Services Agency of all of us and our children. The honesty and generosity you have shown are rare ethos characteristics insufficient in today's political life. With respect and love, Eleftherios Papageoropoulos". Would it ever be possible for Mr Papageorgioulou to write this very honourable letter to me if during our cooperation I had put pressure on him to serve interests or had he found anything wrong with mebton? 'Ethics', 'genicity','sufficient morality' do not go along with corruption. It's either one or the other. I think that in this remark every equitable and reliable judge will agree. I would also like to make this letter. [[At this point Mr Andreas Lykourenzos presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Yesterday, Mr Papageoropoulos in his interview honoured me with his appreciation and trust. I, too, honor him for his morality, his offer and for the quality of our cooperation. I come to the third point of the false testimony that I have been communicating, following a sms and frequent contacts with the alleged person as funding political people. I came to the Chamber of Parliamentary editors when they came to my knowledge, after reading the paragraph of the case-file, this alleged document. I made a statement, which I repeat: "I have put and put at the disposal of justice the lifting of telephone secrets, the opening of my bank accounts - not many people are here, they are kept at the branch of the National House of Parliament - my e-mails, my e-mails, the opening of my home, everything, everything in the light." I'm fine with it. I'm afraid of nothing, because I haven't done anything! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have nothing more to add to the reproach given, unreservedly placed at my expense by the malicious false testimony. I am making myself available to the House, to the institutions, to the judiciary and, at the same time, to call for the legal and institutional shielding of justice in the defence of my honour. I will complement my speech with the development of certain cases of revealing the way in which I perform my duties and the declarants of the principles I am dealing with. Two weeks, ladies and gentlemen, after taking up my duties, 18 July 2012, I called the ministry the Special Secretary of the Economic Crime Corps. I have asked for a full investigation into the cases of which the services and management of the ILO had already been undertaken and concerned organisations or bodies subject to the Ministry of Health. At the same time, I asked for information on cases which had already been dealt with and which had already been sent to justice and which involved all kinds of health activities. I wanted clear situations in my beginning. I'm filing the press release. [[At this point Mr Andreas Lykourenzos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] In the recent past, my name was again mentioned in the case-file of Henry Dynan. What for? Because for a year as Minister I did not accept the President of the "John Duncan Foundation" in my office. Of course I didn't accept him. There was no reason for me to accept him. I have dealt with issues within the Joint Institution here in Parliament in the Committee on Social Affairs in plenary. I have always been courageous to say the problems, and I have not shown a sense of beauty or of covering up the bad texts. I was never compromised, I never retreated. I refused to participate in the sale of Henry Dunan and declared here in the House at every opportunity that only by PPP would the privatisation of the hospital proceed. Your colleagues at that time of the Committee on Social Affairs remember my position very well. The Committee of Inquiry did not invite me as a witness or examine the Henry Dynan case to the extent that it should be. I gave inquiries on February 4th 2013 on the management of the "Greek Red Cross" grant from the regular budget, urgent research on the excessive and abusive conduct of CT scans at hospitals of the National Health System. I'm filing the orders I've given. [[At this point Mr Andreas Lykourenzos submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I asked for criminal and disciplinary responsibilities to be attributed where they were located. I looked forward to a re-summation from the ERCF of extremely expensive tests, while on 6 August, in my decision, I reduced the price of Cyber knife's examination from EUR 11,500 to EUR 6,000. They resisted - listen - even to my decision. I was supported by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stagioras. I've given business interests. They sent a message to change the decision. I refused. International competitions were launched with expenditure cuts of more than 40%, expenditure management and the waste of national and European resources in the field of psychiatric reform, with an ally of Mrs Skoulis, in which I owe a lot to our cooperation on the protection of public money. Haemodialysis filters, a 1/3 reduction in the cost of supplying hospitals, while not only the harmonised practices of suppliers of companies, but even the corresponding scientific company. We have shown a decisive attitude to the organized interests, not only of companies, but also of various other 'terrorists'. These are examples of the challenges facing the Minister. What attitude is she holding in the attacks she's taking? Is he able to do it? What attitude holds on the challenges he faces? In civic crises it reveals its worthy system on the basis of which it takes decisions and determines its position. On 4 June 2013, I set up a committee under the ‘Health in Action’ reform programme under the honorable Professor Klamaris Nikolaos to combat corruption in the health sector. The committee worked hard and completed its work, since I had now left the ministry. I'm filing her very important conclusion in the Minutes. He's reached all the ministers of health after me. I believe he will have come to you, Minister. It is worth studying and codecision as to how nursery phenomena are treated in the health sector. [[At this point, Mr Andreas Lykourenzos presents for the minutes the abovementioned conclusion, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me one last mention on my political path. I started my life as a child of a humble family in Tripoli. We've learned to live honestly. I did not change my life after my election as a Member of the Arcadias, as State Secretary, as Minister. I came to Athens in the fall of the distant 1975, in the era of postpopulation. With some ladies and gentlemen, I see them, we were at the university amphitheaters. In the era of postpopulation, where the ideological currents of the Left prevailed, contrary to the times, I was moved by the liberal values of the centre-right party. As a student of the Panteion University, I read important works of leading political theory and ethics intellectuals. The work of Constantine Tsatsos "Policy" has shaped my theory decisively. I have taught the values that highlight the real meaning of politics and forbid it to function. It is the epitome of the distinction between idealism and cynicism and alas in society if romantic ideologists are defeated and cynics and selfish in public life prevail! I have followed the titanic struggle of Constantine Karamanlis to achieve Greece's accession to the European family, which, after having slandered, our opponents have retrospectively adopted. I admired his faith in Greece, his insight, his philanthropy. I was moved by the morale and self-renunciation in fulfilling the task of his top partners. They were a model of morality, honesty, unselfishness. As a young man, I made them a model in my conscience. The example of these political leaders and other important aspects of our prolongation, which later followed, I wanted to reiterate, with full knowledge of my own potential and strict self-criticism. I wanted to become a follower of their moral status, their unselfish offer to Greece. At no price will I exchange my unshakable faith to deliver to the next generations the political life of Greece without shadows, without stigmas, transparent and honored, which is causing the pride of young people and not contempt for contempt. If you look at my speeches here as a Member, you will see that this was the last of my speeches. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no price at which my conscience can be repurchased. This is best understood by those who know me and know me very well and many at every corner of Greece. I'm not afraid, I'm not worried in front of the false testimony. I insist on the full settlement of the case. I will not tolerate, as I have explained, in any way the sparking of my name. I owe it to those who unbelievably honor me with their trust. I owe them gratitude, I didn't betray them, I won't disprove them. I note with emphasis, in order to avoid misunderstandings, that I was placed in the proposal in question only in relation to me. The New Democracy, which I am a member of, and to which I owe my political path, has continuous announcements and statements from its representatives to deal with the political dimension of the matter now at hand. Despite the fact that I will not be running again, as I have already announced since 20 June last year, I support the fight of the President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for the regeneration of Greece, for reforms, for changes, for social cohesion. Mr President, I would ask that my speech be distributed to the ladies and gentlemen. I want to put it in their judgment, to be evaluated by their conscience. That's my ambition. I have spoken, ladies and gentlemen, for more than I have wanted. However, more important than my position is that I should be treated by the citizens and their established opinion, which these difficult hours have expressed to me, their wholehearted support, the relationship of confidence - and a last phrase that concerns all - trust that is not won in words. In an open and free society, not only is our attitude understood and our attitude to public life understood, but this behaviour cannot be escaped, it cannot be misinterpreted by the infallible sensitivity of citizens. And just this evaluation, the power of trust, is ultimately the power of every politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr. Lykurenzo. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fourteen German students of law from the Legal Court of Chemnitz. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty one students and students and five educational attendants from the 2nd St. Nicholas Lassithiou High School. The House welcomes them. Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor for five minutes on behalf of SYRIZA, and then the former Minister, Mr Kutrumanis, immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when a case, much more a scandal, relates to ten political persons, Parliament has the constitutional status under Rule 86, but also to the political and moral duty to establish a special parliamentary committee. Any discussion calls into question this threefold duty of the House is a service against the Greek people, a service against the Republic. And that, because the "all together we ate" or "some of us put their hand in honey" not only undermines democracy, but marks one thing, "let's go below". We say we won't go further. Because, if important issues are not solved, how the country has arrived here is never going to go down and have a future. That's the first. The second is that there is the presumption of innocence always and that must be respected by everyone. But there's something else. Political persons are subject to public control and they must be subject to public control and must be open to this control. A state that is the oldest country in the region and one of the oldest in Europe, a state that forty years has not known either war or any epidemic of dramatic proportions, has reached bankruptcy. It didn't come from God's will. This is what the entire Greek people have known and demanded explanations for a long time. It reached bankruptcy because it hit three icebergs, the ones that built Greece's huge public debt. It impacted on health, public works and equipment. Don't be ridiculous. Some people, therefore, have made a solid concept that public money is not a public asset in the public interest, but is owned by some. This concept has created the vicious cycle of corruption, a vicious circle that has not only tolerance to corruption, but means non-ethical as a self-evident act of politics. Because non-ethical is the exercise of the policy which accuses the law itself of providing the protected witnesses, with a thousand two surnames. Last night I heard outrageous aggressive determinations about these witnesses. It is inconsistent to practice politics when the government and the majority Members of the majority are accused of being 'a gang' and 'a gang'. It is not moral to conduct politics when various legal terminologys are invented, such as those we have seen this morning, instead of this House saying that it needs to be a Special Committee of Parliament. I am talking about a self-evident non-ethical exercise of politics because that is what we see in all the scandals, but above all in the health scandal, because it catches a particular sector in the whole population. Everyone's talking about a health scandal, everyone. Mrs Bakoyannis and the other five Members in the timely question she had put in 2011 - note the characteristic wording - he said: 'What and who led to group blindness?' This House today is called upon by the committee to see who and how they led to team blindness. Some led to group blindness. Some led this urban system, which Mr Samaras allegedly defends, to blindness. So this urban system, or blinded by corruption tolerance, or some selfish ones blinded it. There's no other explanation. You're talking about a health scandal. I won't say much. Unfortunately, I don't have much time. But I'll just say two clues, two things. I will not go into what my colleague, Mr Dousina, has said very well about the FBI's reports, so that we do not enter the witnesses, but that the House must combinedly see the FBI's reports on what was happening with the figures by 2010. We know what 'NOVARTIS' is. It's a multinational. A multinational company has these features that Mr. Paradoxopoulos said. How did this country seem to be a powerless state and infiltrated in such a way? Why does the Greek people have to listen to this in France and Germany, while in our country - which was a reference country - the insurance funds did not make any negotiation and assessment of the medicines and the price was upwards? Why did the expenditure in our country go up, more than doubled in 2009? Those are numbers. No one's calling a suspect witness. Should the political persons responsible at that time speak, explain why and be combined with the FBI report? You have to. After 2010 when this society got into cataracts - because the disease is not just a cataractness of a person biologically. When you lead to economic and personal humiliation, we are talking about an irreversible political system - we do have a reduction in pharmaceutical expenditure. But how was this reduction in pharmaceutical expenditure? By transferring costs to private individuals, i.e. to citizens, that is to say to customers. They once had to pay, now they had to be humiliated during their illness. Has there been an increase in private participation? Yeah, more than 25%. The whole society knows that. We don't. So something happened then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u388	Madam Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u389	Just a minute. Was the e-prescription done? Has the system been streamlined by e-prescription? Or have other companies, such as NoVARTIS, been found to minimize their turnover? To see the turnover of NOVARTIS during the crisis, in relation to the other companies and in relation to the costs of private individuals. What does he say about the medicines 'Gilenya' or 'Lucentis' while they entered the illegal drugs at a much lower price? To ask patients who needed these medicines, to see what happened at the time. I mean one thing. We all say that there was a health scandal and a NOVARTIS scandal, because 'they were getting', the doctors were being funded. Can health expenditure and all this 'part' in health happen without any political responsibility? So there's an elite that's outside of every political system, every political control, it's not controlled from nowhere and suddenly some innocent politicians who haven't received any news? They're morally responsible too if they didn't get any news.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u390	Please complete. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u391	I'm hanging up with one thing. National moderation is not to let perspectives in the new world, in youth write its own story. National minority is to unravel the future of this place and cover behind the Greek flag "NOVARTIS", "SIEMENS" and stuff like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u392	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. The former Minister, Mr. Koutromanis, has the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u393	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that when dealing with policy in that country it is prepared to take criticism that is often unfair and rigorous. But I never really imagined that I would be at this Step to explain myself as being involved in the case of a scandal and in this case the 'NOVARTIS scandal'. I explain briefly, briefly and specifically why I was really surprised and what I'm going to say you'll understand why I'm also angry. For those who do not know me or do not know my course - and they do not have to remember the course of each of us - I must recall that I am a man who has served social security for over thirty years from a mere employee in insurance to a Minister of Labour and Social Security, when the citizens of the Second District of Athens have honoured me with their vote and when the then Prime Ministers of Papademos and Papademos have honoured me with their confidence. I took office as Deputy Minister in October 2009 and then Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Security Minister until 14 May 2012, i.e. the storm management period that had hit the country and our people. For my political options then, like all government officials, I received an unprecedented criticism, which has evolved and been accompanied by insults, prejudices, attacks, threats, insults. It was the period when I couldn't and couldn't be released because our physical integrity was at stake, because we were politically targeted as responsible, with key moralists all those who co-existed and exploited the Indignant movement. I've been through all this personally without forgetting it. Political criticism is, of course, an element of democracy and everyone is entitled to have their views on it. I did not expect and expect the current government and its officials to do their self-criticism, now that they have seen the difficulties, now that they have seen the reality, of the insulting designations they have made to me and to those who at the time had political or government responsibility. Today we are discussing the NOVARTIS scandal in which I am alleged to be involved, based on a ridiculous and completely false testimony from a protected witness in his fifth - sixth statement after January 15, 2018. My intervention today in other circumstances, under normal circumstances, could be limited to a phrase: I am perfectly clear, expressly and unequivocally clear. No relationship or involvement I have with this particular or any other scandal. There's no sign of my involvement, look everywhere. My accounts are at your disposal. Look at everything. You won't find me anywhere, because I don't exist anywhere in such cases that are related to matters of morality, honesty, behavior. But as you all know, we are not in normal circumstances. And we are not in normal circumstances because there is not actually the presumption of innocence, as at least there is public dialogue. There is no presumption of innocence more when on Sunday night the names of ten political persons come out and the next day top ministers talk about the biggest scandal of the Greek state's recommendation, completely linking the ten political faces to this scandal. Here there was a top government minister who said "let them prove they are innocent", so simply. Unfortunately, there is not the presumption of innocence in a multipathious society where, under the responsibility of all the political personnel of the country, such a view, such an image, that all politicians are the same, all politicians take it. So I'm mad, not because I'm worried about the outcome of this case for me, which will be my full right, because I know very well what I've done, but about the completely unfair and without the slightest spiral I have, the slandering and slandering. So my problem is what I'm experiencing today, it's not how the situation develops. It is what I am experiencing today and my family and my friends, who stand behind me, who, by the way, I must say to them to continue to be proud of me, because all that is said has no basis at all. That is why I am here, not to apologize, but because I think I am entitled to protest strongly about the misguided practices and practices in which my name is involved in the NOVARTIS case. Will you allow me first to address a number of aspects relating to this big issue: Is there a NOVARTIS scandal? If there are two - three people in this country who, in unsuspecting time, talked about the major health scandals, one is Kutruman. At least from 2000 and 2009, when I took office, not only through participation in the public debate, but with written texts, with interventions, with my contributions to the Conference of the Federation of Insurance Funds, where I was privileged to be President, I had raised the major problems. I also spoke at the time about the pillaging of the funds, much more after 2004, which seemed to be a derailment. I had spoken of all these methods, which insurance companies and health service providers used, of guided, directed prescriptions, of virtual recipes, of a number of other things. I've been calling them monotonous, repeating them with the risk of being handwriting since 2004. I am tabling the official minutes of the Federation in the Minutes and part of the magazine 'SFALISTIS', which I was responsible for issuing, where it appears to me from 2000 to 2009, what I said about these things and how much I had raised the huge problem of the fragmentation of the funds and the possibility of going to bankruptcies in the funds due to the huge increase, which was particularly observed between 2004 and 2009. [[At this point, Mr Georgios Koutromanis submits for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Therefore, in the question of whether there is a scandal or not, my view is that, of course, there is a scandal, which is self-evident that it must be investigated, and it is not the only scandal. In the health field there are scandals over time, scandals larger or smaller. And today, if you look, there are scandals, there's directed prescriptions, there's a number of other things. But I never spoke, and I never insulted the politicians, but I judged them for their political responsibilities. I pointed out political responsibilities. I said then that there is tolerance to this great problem, the phenomenon of smuggling, the pillaging of the funds, the bleeding of workers' money. From there on, I had nothing to do with the morality of each political person. Someone's gonna ask in good faith: Kutrum, you're telling us well. But what did you do when you came to the government and took office? To say, when I came to the government, I was absolutely consistent. I have performed my duties exemplarily and on the basis of only the public interest, the service of the public interest. And I would explain: I will not, of course, take stock of this because it is not the subject of the matter today, but I would like to focus on certain facts, if you like, and allow some aspects, which I hear them say, which have nothing to do with reality, to sit down and watch real events. In October 2009, ladies and gentlemen, when with Andreas Loverdos we took office in the Ministry of Labour - the spokesman at first as State Secretary -, the pharmaceutical expenditure was EUR 5.6 billion - it is not 5.1 the right one, it is 5.6 because all the data from all the funds had not been collected - and, if you like, extra-survey care and total health expenditure was EUR 10.8 billion, increased by about 160% over the last six years. It is, however, totally inaccurate to hear what I hear from both Parliament and also from the public debate that the troika has imposed a reduction in drug spending or, in any case, the package of this case. The truth is that we, Andrew Papandreou and I, in consultation with the Ministers responsible at the time, were the Ministers for Health and Development with the tasks and the Ministry of Trade, in consultation with the then Prime Minister, Mr Papandreou, presented an integrated plan in the negotiations with the Troika, which we had already started to implement since November 2009, with the aim of drastically limiting the pharmaceutical expenditure and, of course, all the other expenditure, where they considered there was a fragmentation of resources. The understanding and partnership of the ministers was absolutely necessary because there was no responsibility for the pricing of medicines or for the list of medicines in the Ministry of Labour. It was in the other two ministries. So, without conciliation and partnership, there could never be the result we wanted. The Ministry of Labour, however, was the expedited Ministry, because it had the problem. Because the supervisory insurance funds paid the account and the consequences of a large waste. Because the reduction in expenditure in this area was necessary in order to ensure the sustainability of the funds. We - and we speak personally - on 23 April 2010, when the negotiations with the troika led by Mr Karone - was known to be a representative of the European Commission - presented a comprehensive plan to reduce expenditure and rationalise it in other areas. Not only did he have the medical treatment, he had a series of actions, a giant package of 4.5 billion euros. Costs have to be reduced, if you like, and the control of pension payments, of course, by e-prescription and by the control of disability pensions. This whole package was EUR 4.5 billion, because this had to be done, and because with that we could prevent the major reductions that we were being forced to make in pensions at that time. The aim, of course, has not been achieved with normal practices. We were really in full cooperation with the co-responsible ministries and we had daily contact with the fund managers in order to make the programme fully progress. We reconstitute the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who found it dissolved in 2009, to do the checks, to find these drugs in the wells, if you remember, to find them on the pharmacy shelves paid drugs from the Greek people and resold them, because they were simply not taken by the insured, the fake recipes and a number of other things. To institutionalize and implement e-prescription. We must call on the managers of the insurance funds to activate all the control mechanisms, to promote the fund partnership until the EEA. We have worked together - and I must mention this - with Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mrs Katseli, when they had responsibility for the other two ministries and, of course, our choices and actions have also been continued by the next governments. The result was important, at least during the period when I was doing my job there, but it was also continued by Mr Brutsi, who I see here in front of me and the other ministers, so that there could at some point be rationalisation and a huge problem, which had led to a very large deficit in the insurance funds. The fact that the troika adopted this plan and joined the memorandum on our own proposal does not mean that it imposed it on us. This was our plan, our condemnation, it was a pre-election commitment. I was one of those who had co-formulated the PASOK programme and always in this programme was the reference to this particular problem and to this area. It is true that from 2004 to 2009 there was derailment. I said it before. When did the pharmacological expenditure begin to be drastically reduced? It began to fall from May 2010 and gradually until the end of 2011, we already had a very large reduction of 40%. I am tabling the figures showing the course of pharmacy expenditure in the first two years, as well as health expenditure as a whole. [[At this point, Georgios Koutromanis submits for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Since May there have been reductions, which were 30% in IKA, 18% in the OGA, 22% in the Free Professional Insurance Agency, 31% in the OGA. And this without an increase in drug involvement, which I have previously heard is said. What increase in the share of the insured person in the drug was there at the time? None. It was 0%, 10% and 25% participation. That has been participation since 1992. So we have had the great reduction. However, in my term of office, from EUR 5.6 billion, it has reached EUR 2.85 billion. In my own government service - not as a personal task, of course, but as a whole - health expenditure from EUR 10.8 billion has reached EUR 6.6 billion through a great effort. After all this - I am not talking about moral matters to which I shall come immediately afterwards - can anyone blame Kutruman or anyone who took part in that government for political responsibility at that time? I'm talking about my period. Much more can anyone come today with a witness completely lame, totally funny, and consider that both Kutruman and others are involved and involved in this matter of the great scandal? The only testimony, ladies and gentlemen, that exists, if you read the file, is that of a witness named "Sarafis", who in the fourth, fifth statement, as I said, says: "I learned that a member of "NOVARTIS" asked the mother company 500,000 euros..." - When? In March 2012, “... to use them in a program, which included funding of government officials, in order for the company to have a favourable treatment.” In March, when we were at work, that is a month before we left, the company planned to get the 500,000 euros, get them by the ministers, share them with twelve corrupt ones, including Kutruman, Venizelos and ten Secretaries. This is the only testimony there is. He doesn't say he gave money. He doesn't say if he took that money from the company from the mother. That's it. And that's what I'm calling on you today to explain before you, I'm slandering, I'm slandering. And I ask: what right is that? I've given you a certain course of action. To whom did I give the right, ladies and gentlemen, to break up today in this way? And like I said, I don't care about the result. I know what the result will be. I'm interested in the course. I'm interested in what my family and I live in these days. That's what I'm interested in. I have not given the slightest right to my long presence in public life to question my morality and integrity. Everything I've done in my life I've only done through hard work. I've never been tempted to discuss anything about illegal acts. I left poorer than political and indebted. Can anyone read anything through the case and say that there's even one bite, a trace, a suspicion that this man is involved in this case? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was not one of those who remained honest because he could not be an honest man. Every man who exercises authority can, if he has it, enter into such reasonable conditions. He never had it for me. I chose to be honest, because that's what it was and it's a life stop. So I can't and can't afford to be accused when I gave my best self and my soul to that ministry for two and a half years. I've grown old - if you want - ten years over there to defend the public interest so that it doesn't happen in that country the worst. Today I would be invited to explain why one witness said: "Would he be called to...?" Is this a testimony with which a man can be blamed? Besides, I never met any of the company or knew anyone. Fruzzis, as Vice-President - if I remember well - came to the Ministry with President Philiotis and another five, six people. I've never met by myself and by any executive. They never asked me for anything. He never has any communication with them. To close, I would like to ask you this: Members of the government majority, for what moral advantage, really, can you speak when you use these unprecedented methods, when you use a scandal with which you are stumbling people like me? And I'm saying this straight and I'm looking into your eyes. What I think now - because what has happened has been done - your obligation to contribute to the immediate investigation of the whole case in depth. All testimonies, all charges should be investigated by the pre-examination committee of the Parliament, with witnesses present, whether you want them protected or not protected. But be present. Without any limitations. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] For these topics can be discussed in the pre-examination or preliminary committee of Parliament and the responsibilities can be raised where they exist. But not in the lawsuit to keep the retreat on some people. If you want, as far as I'm concerned, the worst thing that can happen is to have a limitation decision tomorrow and to stay the shadow and the retina. I do not want to do so today, at least for the whole case to be investigated in depth. In my position, any one of you or you, of all, can be found when the political life prevails. I was never one of those who acted like this because he was outside my values and principles. However, when these methods, as they are being followed today, be sure that many innocent people can be wrapped in a glue of their political opponents. Let me conclude by saying that at least this is an opportunity, a starting point for all the changes that need to be made, so that we have a real rule of law that its citizens can trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Eve Christophilopoulou, from the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the atmosphere is bored. There are very few Members in the SYRIZA headquarters who are willing, if you like, to listen to truths. Because since the start of the "behaviourers", truths are heard. Leave, Minister, the PASOK. Don't waste the word saying it. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes, PASOK will tell you and you will hear it! Because instead of using the real NOVARTIS scandal to show sinful aspects of the history of the medicine, what are we doing? Cover and hood with the mud in the fan with a double target. One is the one I said, we can cover things up, and I'll tell you why. The other is to smash our political opponents into violation of the rule of law. But you won't get past it. We demand, Mr Minister of Justice you are laughing at, now real pre-response committee with all the responsibilities. To shine everything! Open accounts, get witnesses, get all the evidence to light now! Not in a pre-examination - a monkey said by your rapporteur, Mr SYRIZA, because'moufa' is also such an interrogation which says 'nothing', which is 'because'. And the President of Parliament has correctly issued a agenda describing the offences and announcing a genuine committee of inquiry, Mr President. But SYRIZA's proposal says other things and that means you're going to cover up and go drag and drag people. But let's say some truths too. Let us take things a little from the beginning and put the finger on the type of sunshine. We establish the list of medicines for the first time when we see that the cost of the medicine begins to rise and we set restrictions on prescribing. The New Democracy Government is coming in 2004 and what is it doing? It abolishes both the drug list and all restrictions. I will read only two words from the warning of the PASOK rapporteur then in Parliament, Hector Nasioka. Mr Nassiokas said at that time: 'Ladies and gentlemen, speaking to the then government of Kostas Karamanlis, it will not only be the abolition of pharmaceutical expenses, but it will take place at the heights, creating huge burdens on the funds and the insured themselves'. Unfortunately, Mr Nasiokas was also verified and the expenditure, as we heard before, was launched between 2004 and 2009 from EUR 2.4 billion at EUR 5.6 billion. He's more than doubled. Throughout this period, which had abolished everything, PASOK was preparing its proposals, as you heard. So PASOK comes back to government again and it institutionalizes real tools, e-prescription, EOPYY, restrictions on benefits, rules on invoicing, benefits. Takes the bill from the Ministry of Commerce and takes it where it should be, to the Ministry of Health. What does SYRIZA do then, really, Ministers, except to build, Mr. Xanthi, Ministers and stumble by telling us germans? What else did you do? You discussed with all the players, after you heard here that one of them said that they would turn the polling centres into SYRIZA centres. This is what you have done, you have closed your eyes to everyone and everything until you became government and, oh of the miracle, you have forgotten to invoice the drugs, Mr. Xanthi and Mr. Kurubli. That is why Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Loverdos and I made the report, because we wonder who won millions because the drugs that would be reduced were not reduced. And why did you do this based on your logic? Did you have any benefit? Ladies and gentlemen, all this must be examined by a normal pre-review committee with full powers of inquiry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I too would like your tolerance for a while, as do the others. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'NOVARTIS' case, which is real, could indeed be a starting point and an opportunity, a starting point for real circuits, what you want to cover up and an opportunity to develop a new drug policy. But what happened instead? It's the well-deserved craft he's got. Watch out. He has an unprecedented tightening of the government and justice. Prime Minister and Ministers have become prophets. A year ago, we've been told what's on the file. Refer to a speech by Mr. Tsipras. Refer to the pro-government press. We've known everything for months. He was preparing the FBI, as I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u396	He didn't say what the file says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u397	You're telling the truth? The seven names of the FBI were the ones Mrs. Tulupaki sent? What are we talking about here? As we like them, do we present them? And the famous whistleblowers, mentioned by the speaker of SYRIZA before, about NOVARTIS GATE, what is true and why are they protected and why has their protection been increased? Retrospectively, Minister of Justice, how do you judge this, really, where you were laughing a moment ago, in such a serious case? We have also witnessed increased protection and reduced credibility, generally related. I shall mention, ladies and gentlemen, only one leitmotiv, which comes and returns to those who have read this perforated file. "I think..." - says repeatedly most of the covered witnesses, all, all three - "opposed to the logic of things..." - this cliché is repeating, notice - "...the Minister received an amount of less than 200,000 euros" and goes on to say. This comes back and comes back and refers to a divisive state, where witnesses are not true witnesses. The witnesses are generally accounted for. So let us come to the committee of inquiry and listen to them. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the ANELs, you have chosen to be overwhelmed by the nationalities and not only to be empathetic to the most dirty policies, to imitate your predecessors, the slanderers, who set up the 1989 dirt. Only now instead of 'pampers' we have locomotives. We will insist on our proposal for a full committee of inquiry. The truth will shine. The day will stand out from the wheat. And know one thing: History is avenged by those who don't take the necessary lessons from it. If it does not shine now with the real pre-review, it will shine after the popular verdict. And independent justice will be called upon to account for the real responsibilities, both in terms of medicine and NOVARTIS, but also in terms of the structure you have built to smash your political opponents. The masks will fall and the hoods will come out!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u398	Mr Christos Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u399	There has been a great deal of time before we move on to the substance of the debate on intervening issues, on procedural issues, and there has been a lot of discussion on the subject of benches. Although we understand the selfishness of the Officer's opposition to the number of molds and even though the hypocritical attitude of both is clear, that is, the New Democracy and SYRIZA, I will be tempted to return to the question of the number of molds. And please, be careful with me. I do not want in any case to be considered to be a change of attitude. We have spoken - and all the Greek people have heard it - about the need for ten or better eleven candles, to include Mr Kurublis, who is scandalously protected by the 'NOVARTIS' scandal by the government. We want a ballot and a committee and a court of law. A call concerning the political persons involved in one of the biggest scandals of modern political history, a call for the enslavement of Greece, a call for confiscation of Greece's assets, a call for the confiscation of public property, worth more than 1 trillion dollars, a call for banks, a call for the confiscation of national wealth and a call for the moral perpetrators, who led thousands of Greeks to suicide. We also want a call for the nationalist policy of open borders and the Islamism of our country, a call for the betrayal of our country, through the provision of, even a complex name, the tradition of the sacred name of our Macedonia, which brings together the Memorandum, democratic, constitutional and anti-patriotic - say it as you like - a bow promotes. Obviously, the NOVARTIS scandal, a health-related criminal international health scandal, and, since it is true what is witnessed in the case-file, it concerns tens of billions of euros, it concerns political persons, it concerns media, private individuals, hospitals, etc. Watch out for me, though: this is about a company in the industry, a multinational. And here is the question: Are the other multinationals prosecuting and walking with the cross in the hand? Consider, too, why we are talking about multinationals in industry, commerce and public life. Should we also talk about multinationals, namely huge economic interests - and domestically, if you like - in the other branches and activities? I don't cut glaukas in Athens. I am simply appealing to common sense and to what the Greek people, this unfortunate people, the always gullible and always betrayed, are aware of. For example, to confirm the multinational party, which continues in our home country at all levels: Newspaper, Sunday's publication, we read from there: "In this spirit, the "brain" Vice-President of "NOVARTIS" is developing projects for the expansion of the company in all areas. Refers to the health environment at the time, the necessary strategic actions, the technical access to the health market, public relations, the insurance section and a number of others.’ It notes in summary ‘of the Guard’. These two points are the only ones related to all and various groups of involved that interact and thus achieve the ambitious objectives for the head of the Competition Committee. Finally, I would like to assure you that I am fully aligned that we are all acting as a group and in any case I should welcome whenever I see that, with a small amount, the head of the Competition Committee can be approached by bringing enormous benefits back. This is why the Government and Civic Opposition must also be denounced, the Government for its pretext and selective reference and proposal, in order not to clean up the 'Highness' of post-multiple and scandals, but solely to harm its political opponents. Here, then, is what I said to you, because we are in time of commemoration the most expensive country in Europe, because the multinationals are having a party with the silver state officials at the expense of the Greek people. No mood has SYRIZA to exalt the place. No mood has to exalt political life. And how could this be done anyway? The state sees it, it keeps on seeing it. The Memorandum of Understanding of New Democracy - PASOK delivered to the Memorandum of Understanding SYRIZA - ANEL, you see the same ones, with the same laughs, in the same embassies go, and you do the same. And our national issues are the same. Complex name. You hand over the name of our Macedonia, as you hand over our national sovereignty: Imia became a gray Imia, in Tsipras, is in danger of becoming Turkish. Kotzias, your Minister for Foreign Affairs - and remember that name - will the Greek people remember that, because for historians of the future, I believe that this name will become synonymous with the term'sentry' - so it disappears on all fronts. In particular - to note this - on the Greek-Albanian front with the forthcoming agreement including the lifting of the embargo and much worse it will include the withdrawal of our positions on the EEZ, as they were known in 2009, the cross-cutting islands will no longer have, for Kotzia, a helmet, which will open the coast of Haul with regard to our sovereignty in the Aegean islands, vis-à-vis Turkey. I said this morning about the existing 'NOVARTIS' scandal, that under no circumstances can this be done in front of any smoke, curtain, curtain, which will hide and cover the mining plans that the government has made on all our national issues. Greece is in danger. And we learn about the "NOVARTIS" scandal one day just after the rally, the grand rally of Athens, where the Greek people protested, along with the Golden Dawn, "no compromise for our Macedonia" and "any complex name is treason". So Greece is in danger. Natonic sovereignty exists. In Turkey there is a rapid increase in armaments, there is an economic giantization, a demographic explosion. And all this together, together, is the main factors that give Turkey self-confidence and push it into its provocative and courageous, impediment! They're changing the course of the government plane with the Prime Minister inside. They've been declaring "Sinuk" on the island of Strongyli for half an hour. Turkey is questioning our borders with the EU's EEZ, it is questioning our sovereignty in Imia. Indeed, Mr Kotzia and Mr Tsipras, as we said about the EEZ of Cyprus, has Greece ceased to be a guarantor of the integrity and existence of the Republic of Cyprus? With the slavery of the political world, together with the democratic arch, we are guided with mathematical accuracy to national destruction. I wonder if future historians will ever know accurately the dialogues between Tsipras and Trump. In conclusion, I would like to say to all these ostrich representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - either the New Democracy or the SYRIZA - who say that Erdogan does all this because he has internal fronts and does it for internal consumption, that this is not the case. Erdogan teaches high policy. And I am very afraid that the greatest art of war is the subjection of the enemy without battle. In closing the nationalities, I would like to say that everything is solved only by powerful Armed Forces, only by force, only by the vote of our own casus belli, as the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn has proposed to you in this Chamber. And all I'm saying, of course, they want national leaders, they want leaders and not bells. As far as NOVARTIS is concerned, in my short time I want to say that the parties involved must be judged by justice. Yes, indeed, to be judged by justice and not by the House. Don't dare the House cover the scandals and become a laundry one more time. We demand that everything come out in the light, those who took hatred, yes, be tried, and if they are guilty, go to jail. We believe SYRIZA is incapable of fighting corruption. For three years you have covered the scandals of the dirty political system. You're doing exactly the same thing New Democracy did. We have also had strong reactions today to both the various programmes and the panels for anonymous hooded witnesses, strong reactions to interventions by ministers, strong reactions to interventions in the justice mechanisms, and to meddling. We had protests about violation of the presumption of innocence. The identical nature of these reactions, namely the political leaders of the New Democracy and PASOK, reveals once again the undeniable fact that in essence these two parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK, are a party. You're the same! You have already applauded the spokesman of the PASOK. You're the same! And I wonder with the steadfast - the courage, as the expression, of a thousand monkeys - of Samaras, Athanasios, Trees and CIA. The SIA put it Greek, a partnership that is, but also the CIA Latin. Who are they talking to? The chiefs? Who? The ones who did the disgraceful against the Golden Dawn? I would like to ask the House, Mr President-in-Office, and I would like to say: is this House generally asked today, in addition to the referral of the persons involved, namely Samaras, Loverdos and the others, if the House will decide to suspend the financing of the New Democracy and PASOK? The question, of course, is rhetorical because, as a known coral horn, it does not. It is therefore hypocritical that the positions and statements in the political context of the constitutional self-determination, namely the prosecutors and the accused, and the media, are hypocritical. And all this is easy to distinguish from the Greek people. I conclude, Mr President, by giving you an equitable article from the weekly national newspaper 'EMPROS', which is circulated every Saturday, by the good competitor and author Nikolaos Konstantinos - I put it in the Minutes - entitled - for the economy of time I will mention only the title - 'The people forget the scandals, but a national betrayal will never forget it'. And it's perfectly true. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who remembers today the pre-declared scandals of PPCINE, the Sciadarosis scandal, the Omonoia Square scandal, the PPC scandal and so on.Huh? Here's an envelope for the scandals. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above file, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You may not remember these scandals, but you remember very well the betrayal of Cyprus in 1974, with Ioannides and the prostitute heads of staff, Attila 1, that is, and remember the pseudo-ethnic ruler Konstantinos Karamanlis with Attila 2, with the famous "Cyprus lies long". Mr President, the people are rising. There was a huge concentration in Thessaloniki and Athens. I would say that this was the biggest gathering of the present century so far. It was a gathering that really had a nationalist identity. There is a tsunami nationalist, a patriotic voice that can only be expressed through the Golden Dawn. Only the Golden Dawn will express this political current. So the Golden Dawn is at the forefront of this reaction. Golden Dawn - and I close - is persecuted because it has not agreed to replace prosperity and security for Greeks, that is, its objective, with prosperity and security for its members. As for the other political maniacs in the hostilities, you will continue to fight sweaty to uncover each other's injustices.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u400	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u401	We will not show any tolerance with regard to scandals. We will not show any tolerance with regard to national betrayal. We say 'no' to thieves and 'no' to ethnic traitors!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-three students and students and three teachers - attending them from the 5th Lamia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Kozobol - Amanatidis Panagiotas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. By listening to colleagues from New Democracy and from PASOK, I do not understand whether there is a scandal for New Democracy and PASOK at the end of the day. And if there is, it must be investigated. I didn't hear about a scandal. I heard it's for preparations. So what's the scandal? I understand and understand that it is politically painful today's debate in Parliament. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary and necessary, because the multi-faceted crisis that has plagued the country and society in recent years as one of the main causes has widespread corruption, complexity and the dispersion of public money. The large pharmaceutical expenditure that has sank the state budget and the insurance funds has come to be added to the country's pillaging by armament orders, the big projects, the "SIEMENS", the sea-loving of canals and publishers, the blue mayor of Thessaloniki and the other "excellent" who went to prison and the dozens of corruption stories from the surrealist with the fake jeep signs up to the structured bonds, the Vancepoulou, the "ENERGA" and the number that led the country to bankrupt and trained citizens to the tolerance of the discount of values. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a scandalous increase in pharmaceutical expenditure in the years 2000-2010 from 1% to 2.1% of GDP, which is translated into tens of billions of euros. Upgrading the risk of a pandemic of H1N1 in 2008 is also a scandal, as is the resulting supply of 16 million vaccines plus the cost of the information campaign. It is scandalous to order EUR 200,000, with opaque competitive procedures, to provide a blood test instead of EUR 40 and 50 for the test, when the average price is between EUR 5 and 15. It is scandalous that Greece should be the only country in the world that did not negotiate the price of the medicine nor did it have a system of drug evaluation. It is a scandal that, while the barbaricity of the memorials was imposed on the people, the mechanism that produced the overpricing continued to exist and strengthen the profitability of companies, which, on the order of the lenders, imposed a limit of pharmaceutical expenditure, without due consideration, the burden was passed on to individuals with the conscious burden of the involvement of the insured. This is the reduction in the expenditure invoked by some previous speakers here and when the Price Negotiation Committee was also imposed by our lenders - it was not institutionalised by Mr Loverdos, as he says - it was created, established, but it has never worked. Date of birth: (a) 1966, (b) 1968. And because many have demanded the paternity of e-prescription, e-prescription, ladies and gentlemen, is not capable of solving any problems at the price of the medicine. It does not, in itself, lay down price rules, and the reduction in pharmacy costs is valued when all the sizes of that expenditure are taken into account, not to reduce the cost of pharmacy and to increase it to hospital pharmacy, because they did not have a certain limit or the reason for the involvement of insured persons. Only the passage of this scandal can restore the credibility of the political system, the self-clearing of the old parties that are necessary as never before, otherwise anti-parliamentism, extreme right and abstention will reap and be strengthened by mass suspicion that no one is punished. This scandal is also necessary for those involved in the case, since our legal system provides procedural guarantees for the truth to shine with respect for the presumption of innocence. It is inappropriate, incomprehensible and problematic what the New Democracy and the PASOK are doing as a scandal, in fact, the institutional one imposed by the law and the Constitution, threaten and intimidate judicial officers because, in keeping with the law, they have forwarded the case-file for "NOVARTIS" to Parliament. So they mean the role of independent justice? Is it inappropriate to prosecute the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for what exactly? I don't understand. It is inappropriate to denounce the witnesses of the public interest as hoodiers and threaten them, and they know that the legislative framework has been institutionalised for years. The present government has respected the popular mandate to combat corruption and interlocutory. Cases that were pouring or hidden in drawers, took the path of justice and nemesis. The government and the Prime Minister have practically demonstrated that they have the political will to clash with the old, ignoring threats or attacks of the mortal system of interlocutory, respecting the presumption of innocence, faithful respect for the law and procedural guarantees, calm and decent political controversy, which excludes theories of preparation, witch hunting and extermination. In this context, the case will also be investigated 'NOVARTIS'. The public, insurance funds and Greek citizens have been damaged by many billions of euros of illegal and unsuccessful practices of multinational, service, political and juror doctors. The political responsibilities of those who have contributed or tolerated illegality and theft of public money must be demonstrated. And if any of the elements of the case-file or later, criminal liability arises, too, for political persons, they must be checked. Soothing, institutional and just all in light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Dimitrios Stamatis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because of my very short time, I will concentrate on three points. It will be the first thing with which my previous colleague, SYRIZA, ended. Today we are discussing the case 'NOVARTIS', the case-file of which has come is supposed to be in Parliament without delay. Did he come to the House without delay? No, of course not! The three prosecutors had been informed, they had heard of the alleged involvement of ministers and finally, Prime Ministers, long before they decided to send it to the House. In support of what I am telling you, I am putting forward an opinion by an acquainted professor of the Criminal Law, your colleague, Mr. Paradoxopoulos, who, in his interview at the RES on Monday, February 19th, in reply to the journalist's question, see what he says: "Look, the file had to be sent to the House by the Prosecutor. Is anyone able to know how long the Prosecutor had at her disposal and when did she see a name or did she not see it?" In other words, it raises a direct issue of direct knowledge by the Prosecutor's Office of the names of the parties involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u406	Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u407	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u408	The opposite is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u409	On the contrary?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u410	Just the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u411	Other than others.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u412	But instead of others? I've got here - and if you want me to read it to you--
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u413	We have it in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u414	Check out: "The file had to be sent to Parliament by the Prosecutor. Is anyone able to know the D.A.'s office how long he had and saw a name or didn't he see?" I'm sorry, but someone needs to know Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u415	Do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u416	...and it's not me. So I put it to the Minutes, to read it many times and to inspire it, and to see whether the procedure under Article 86 of the Constitution has been complied with. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But beyond that, the main prosecutors did not just mention the entire case file for three months, while they had to send it immediately to the House, but they also made correspondence with the FBI. Is this a question? Where did they have this right to write, with the names of seven Ministers, with the FBI? Has the Public Prosecutor escaped or not? Of course it does. And this is self-proof of the dates on which the documents have been moved. The names of ministers are heard on 6 November and the prosecutor does not send them to Parliament, but he keeps them until the fourth and fifth statements of the same witness the names of two Prime Ministers are heard. And I ask: the question, of course, is a rhetorical one. You're not going to be convinced. You have at times accepted that donkey is flying. I am addressing the common sense and the world that is watching us. What was the prosecutor expecting? Did he know that other names would follow? This means either that he had divination properties or that he knew that other names would be heard. Let's go to the second part, to the delayed subjection of witnesses to the protection status of Article 45 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. When was this subjection made? February 9th. When was the lawsuit sent to Parliament? Five o'clock at night. Four days later they decided to give this new protection status. Watch out. What's going on? Since Thursday and Friday morning, and Mr Athanasios and I, in many media, have denounced the absence of signature by the appropriate Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Award. In other words, they were retrospectively called to fill a gap. The question is: Why has the prosecutor not subjected these witnesses to the 45B protection regime at the moment and why has he given them protection of Law 2928/2001? There's a couple of things going on. Third, there can't be any. The first is that he may not have known the new law of 2014. But what confidence do we have in a prosecutor who is not aware of a recent law, which is a special law on corruption in the political world? And this gives protection regarding witnesses involved in gang-related felonies. Didn't he know? If she hadn't known, do you think she could lift the burden of such a courtesy with the names of Ministers and Prime Ministers? The second version is that he knew about it. But why did he do it? I'll tell you why he did it. He did so - and here Mr Paulakis is being verified - because he was probably, as I believe he was, aware very well that these witnesses are not the unscrupulous witnesses required by Article 45. They're delusional. They're not just hooders, they're treacherous. In other words, they have their own interest. They're involved in the case. That's what Mr. Paulakis revealed. Conceived that the prosecutor is in bad trouble, he renders them the protection of Law 2928/2001 rather than the extended protection concerning witnesses of the public interest. Thirdly, there is an absolute nullity in the procedure here. It says so, Minister of Justice, Article 171, 1.(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This procedure suffers from total nullity and the problem is how will the process continue now when we have this case? Because, obviously, the witnesses can no longer be protected, they can no longer be unknown and anonymous. And I am closing with a last question which has been raised as a matter of fact: in this context, no reasonable person would provoke this 'NOVARTIS' case in the political part. Of course it's a scandal. However, it has nothing to do with the involvement of political persons you have tried to highlight. Why are you doing this? Mr. Paraskevi said it again in his statement. What did he say? He said we're going to do a pre-interrogation committee. Seeing our President, Mr Voutsi, I would like to say that no matter how much man tried to correct and restore this thing to his proper basis, it is not practically possible to achieve this. That is to say, this committee should check which offences have been filed because they have been committed in the course of the ministerial service, so they have failed, and what they will go to justice. In the meantime, by invoking the deletion of infidelity, they achieve two things. First of all, they succeed in dragging the mud into the faces of people who cannot defend their innocence and secondly, discharge for the "P.C.". Thus the document was forwarded to the House, i.e. 'P.K.'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u417	Mr Colleague, please conclude because you have already been delayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u418	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending. Look, we call 'yes' to the Special Parliamentary Committee. But we are talking about a real Special Parliamentary Committee rather than a cover-up to perpetuate the mud regime for as long as the government wants. Finally, former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras was accused of threatening - he says - and blackmails justice. No, Samaras appeals to justice to protect himself from illegal acts of court during the proceedings. He does not challenge a judgment of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u419	A gang tells them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u420	That's what the code says. Listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u421	Don't give up on that. Understood!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u422	The code mentions it. This is the designation given by the Code in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u423	Mr. Stopatis, finish it up. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u424	So, Mr. Samaras is not threatening and he's not blackmailing. He's asking for his protection. What's bothering you, is this and that's why you're here today missing: why did you go...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Stopatis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u426	...be prosecutors and many of those involved will find defendants much faster than you figure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We have to have a time-consensual, however, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a serious matter. Mr. Lappa, because you've interrupted several times, you're driving others to longing their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u428	Me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u429	Many times. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u430	Not you personally. He's always talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u431	I call it a good thing. Don't I see you upstairs? What are you talking about? In any case, respect for time. It is a presumption that there is tolerance, because this is a serious matter. However, if parliamentarians double their time, the persons involved will normally go by tomorrow. You're welcome. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are deciding whether or not to set up the preliminary committee. It is very easy to answer this question: All in light, of course, without a second thought, but without any exceptions, on terms of democracy, on the basis of faithful compliance with the laws, without a surrogate of ministers to public prosecutors, without fundamental principles being violated and basically the presumption of innocence. Because Mr. Kotzias, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, just the day before yesterday, brought us a new doctrine, the doctrine that you are guilty of until you prove otherwise, that you are not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u433	Did Mr. Kotzias say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u434	Of course he did.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u435	Of course he did. Didn't you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u436	He said, prove his innocence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u437	He said so, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u438	Come on, Minister! He said this was a good opportunity for the pre-review committee to prove their innocence. This new doctrine here doesn't pass. This new doctrine, 'unsubstantiated until proven guilty', does not pass. And whoever thinks that ten balls are standing here is only wrong. Here there are three hundred polls, one for everyone, about how to put you in this paradox: The paradox is that while there is a scandal, that of NOVARTIS, which is international, there is, and in all the countries where the issue has arisen and the scandal has been brought before the independent authorities, the governments and demand compensation and have cornered the "NOVARTIS", here we started upside down: "NOVARTIS" is undisturbed. I don't know, is there some kind of investigation going on? Is there a government order? Has something been done by the Independent Public Income Authority, so that we can know whether NoVARTIS is in the corner for the scandal or not? One of the prisoners. So here we started backwards. No one's dealing with the thousands of doctors. Four thousand Greek doctors, according to the reports invoked by the FBI, were on payroll, took them from "NOVARTIS", according to what I call you, to prescribe and overwritten for the company's medicines and products. Is anyone going to deal with this? There's a post on a valid American site, which says there's a bigger doctor's pie, which the FBI has still not been able to control, which numbers about fifty thousand. Fifty thousand doctors only from one company! Are we going to deal with these problems?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u439	It's a rustle.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u440	I heard an ironic comment underneath for a construction. Last week the Prime Minister told the parliamentary group, to you SYRIZA Members, that he will not do what the Samara government did when he resigned from claiming compensation from SIEMENS. So, not only did the Tsipras government not change the extrajudicial compromise between the Greek public and the "SIEMENS" that had been made in 2012, according to which "SIEMENS" owed and gave 330m euros money and counterparts, but Mr Tsakalotos here, when I asked him a timely question, I was chasing this issue of "SIEMENS" - he told me that he was very pleased and satisfied with the way in which this extrajudicial compromise and the agreement that the Samaras government had made with him. But what did Mr. Tsipras say in 2012? And I will come to make a comparison with NoVARTIS and SIEMENS. In 2012, Mr. Tsipras threatened Mr. Stournara, the then Minister of Finance, saying: “You will find yourself charged with violating duty and infidelity if you sign this agreement with SIEMENS. So I asked - since you have completely changed nothing from this compromise with SIEMENS - Mr Tsakalotos a few months ago to a timely question I had tabled, if he is afraid of being accused of unfaithfulness and a breach of duty. He replied: "I'm not afraid, because I have Mr. Near to protect me." Yes, sir. For protection, then, the reason. Let's go to the witnesses, the protected or the hoodiers against others. Does anyone really realize that Mr. Pikrammenos is a danger to the protected witnesses? The greatest protection of the witness is publicity. That's what we've learned in journalism. Principle in journalism is that publicity is a shield, a protection of the weak, against every power. The FBI has found everything? Is this involved in the construction? If we read the case-file, we will see that in the FBI reports, requested by the corruption prosecutor, there is no mention, no evidence, at the expense of any political person. It mentions the unfair practices used by NOVARTIS to increase its shares in the medical world, the pharmacists, but nothing about Greek politicians. Here comes the Greek department and reports to them. What testimonies? ‘I think’, ‘I hear’, ‘I believe’, ‘I think’, ‘I am guessing’. And that is sufficient evidence to actually refer to the stand! So, my dear colleague, Mr SYRIZA and the ANELs, whoever you are, I imagine that once Parliament changed its sound system and put German 'BOSCH', the Bureau of Parliament may have taken some misasa. That might come out and a lunatic can say, he's going to go to a lawsuit, he'll come here, and then I'll see you there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u441	Let's see what happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u442	Let me see what you're gonna say then. Listen, it's the question of witness credibility. The witnesses cannot, on the seventh time they go to the prosecutor, say, "Oh, and a Prime Minister took some money". The previous six times he went to the D.A., couldn't he remember? Was it so insignificant? What was that supermarket milk I forgot to buy? "Oh, I'm sorry, darling?". And one more thing they said earlier than I did. If we sit down for five hours to talk and give a statement, this statement will be more than a page and a half. So, what credibility of these protected witnesses are we talking about? Based on the evidence of the case-file that has come here, reliability zero. Reliability zero! Let's go check out the medical expenses? Let's go. The big party hasn't taken place since 2010. The big party took place in the first decade, 2000 to 2009. Well, in 2000, the Greeks gave 1.3 billion euros to buy drugs, as an organised society. In 2004, we paid almost twice as much, i.e. EUR 2.5 billion. In 2009 we gave EUR 5.1 billion. And then the fall begins. In 2014 we have reached the cost of EUR 2.1 billion, at the lowest in the last 15 years. Let's see what SYRIZA said then? Let's see, ladies and gentlemen, that you're cutting yourself off on the medicine, how did you say then, and how did you react as an opposition to any attempt to elect pharmaceutical expenditure? May I remind you that you used to call the maids the generics? You used to call it a hog!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u443	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u444	You were talking about it. Minister, you were the only institution player in 2013, you as SYRIZA, who officially took a stand against lowering drug prices, through the use of generics. Is it or isn't it? That's right. What's up today? The cost of the drugs he's in? A little too much is as the previous ones left it. So, what do we say? If Adonis Georgiadis paid the medicine with the same money, the same amount of money as Mr. Xanthos today, what am I supposed to say? Do I have to say that Mr. Blonde is a suspect?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u445	You don't understand at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u446	Yeah, right! Mr President, if I judge what you have done and what you have done with Siemens, I am very afraid that nothing will happen to NOVARTIS. Nothing! The point is that there are no institutional injuries, because the world starts and is disappointed and says that if you don't have a hand and a leg in the deep side-state, nothing happens. You Syrians, as a government and as a party - I will say this clearly - have shown how ruthless you are. May I remind you beforehand what kind of mud you were throwing to the head of the river, that he was the petty contractor's child? You, the SYRIZA MPs, who have passed laws - and I have them here to bring them to you - have given them a bonus of extra gifts directly to the national contractors. Understand? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why don't we remember the chapel competition for the channels? You were trying to manipulate the information and allow the pastures to become the new mark deposited. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You don't talk, because if I had faxed from a politician's office to appoint me to the ERT, I wouldn't have the face to be here. So shut your mouth!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u447	You've always been that way!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u448	Ladies and gentlemen, justice has no reason to take any role in political games. The closer justice lies to the ministers, the more it hurts its prestige. Greece has adventures and challenges ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u449	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Mr. Amyra, let's get it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u450	I'm done. But not, Mr President, I should like to hear from certain people that I should be indicted when they have made such a mistake. A little modesty!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u451	Don't turn on. On the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u452	A little modesty, my colleague! We in Potami say yes to the investigation of all cases, but not through the convening of persons or by the shooting of the institutions. I hope I am not entitled, but also in the case of NOVARTIS, as was the case in the case of Siemens, I am very afraid that in the same balance there will be the existing scandal but also the ex-institutional political manipulation of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr Christos Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. Let me quote that arguments on television do not mean that it is the reality. Flying so easily and by fax and phone without being able to prove them shows that we are simple slanderers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u455	You said it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u456	Mrs. Cavadia, you have interrupted the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u457	Not me. My colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u458	My colleague is just answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u459	Can I run the conversation? Mr. Karayannides, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u460	But he says names.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u461	And the mention of a name is subtle, Mr. President? Are you serious? Where did you see that written? Where and where? Here, Mr Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u462	The New Democracy's suggestion on the part of Mr. Voridis was well directed, possible interpretation, with a weak scenario. And this script has two legs: The first part is the confiscation of the protected witnesses and justice - the prosecutors - and indeed, in a way of shit, I would say, without knowing what witnesses have said. I would like to inform you of two reports, about what witnesses say, from two newspapers which cannot be considered as a SYRIZA-friendly, "THA" and "THA VIMA". Just a year ago, she says, Mrs. Yanna Papadakou: "According to information, in the file of the American Ministry of Justice and the FBI there are shocking statements, videos and complaints. Ten political persons are involved, even videos show that they participated in the favourable treatment of decisions for the multinational company." Why haven't you sued Mrs. Papadakou yet? A second publication, which is by Vassilis Lambropoulos, at the 'HIMA'. You understand that it is not SYRIZA "THE VIMA". It says, therefore, Mr Vassilis Lambropoulos: "And as they said in an overall assessment of the dossier, created by the FBI, the file given to the Greek Parliament is about 10% of the data collected in the United States as a whole. The references for policy financing in the deposits of the three witness-protected deposits are cross-referenced to a significant part of the company's records, meeting planning and purposes, internal user lists with amounts given to different persons.’ Why don't you sue Mr. Lambropoulos? I continue: What is written in newspapers, which are not friendly to SYRIZA, how do you contradict them and say that these witnesses are unreliable? Because the newspapers are basically friendly to you. The second part is more important: It is the construction. And this is where Mr. Frank Underwood comes in, and we're getting serial. So you say that the organisation of members of the FBI, along with the organization of members of the Ministry of Justice SYRIZA in America, set up the plaiting platform, find witnesses who are convinced to testify, come to Greece, set up justice, set up here the witnesses who will testify - and have testified - and we are doing this construction. Is there one who can support this country? Because this scenario you say as a line. In fact, you are also hurting one of the three pillars, justice, that he is a maker, a slanderer and a set-up, and you have not proved anything in this matter so far. Because if you're gonna have to prove it, I'm afraid you won't have anything to say. I understand, of course, that you must also handle your parliamentary group, and that is why you will leave this evening, because there is one fear that the votes on specific persons will be taken further. So with the logic of the taratajum and the complaint, you will leave at night. I would also like here to have the assurance or denial - although I am cutting Mr Vorides' head off that this is not the case - that there are publications that say 15 signatures of judges calling for the case to be removed from these prosecutors. But you have nothing to do with it and - I'm saying again - I'm cutting your head off. So I close with your words, because that is all we can say to you: Awesome, shameful and shameful to terrorize witnesses and justice, because you feel - and sweat where you feel it - that at some point justice will reach those who, if any, may have something to do with the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Why am I listening to this: 'Yes, there is a 'NOVARTIS' scandal, but who is to blame?' It's like the "prosperous ship" that came alone to a Greek port and we didn't find out who brought it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Cassidy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u464	First of all, I would like to make it clear that the issue of 'NOVARTIS' and of political corruption is not the major one at this time when the country is always being raised. Major are the national issues in Imia, Macedonia, the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, the Turkish threat. And they are not going to be these major, which the government of the nationalists has degraded, forgotten because of corruption and hatred, which the liberal 'false right' has been receiving for decades. We're not going to forget it. Of course, I also have an answer to the neo-democrats, who say that the 'NOVARTIS' scandal has emerged because they are Macedonians and because of their presence at the rallys. Let's make it clear that when Samaras and Georgiadis showed up at the rally, people sweared on them, deplored them and attacked them, and if Samaras hadn't come in, he could have eaten wood from the indignant civilians. This is to end with the story of the so-called national fights of the false right, which is dived into scandals. In this case, Samaras must stop crying and saying that he is being persecuted by Tsipras, because this case-file "NOVARTIS" - to hear this from a Step-by-step Parliament - is not the first case for serious criminal crimes that he has come to the House against Samaras. About a year ago, there was a courtesy of the serious crime of phone orders, which gave a prosecutor for the convicts of Golden Dawn MPs. The Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office has requested that Samara's criminal responsibilities be investigated for instigating a crime. If the investigation goes on, it will also result in the felony abuse of power and the abolition of the discrimination of powers and the destruction of the Constitution, which is punishable for life. Who keeps this file in the drawer? Tsipras, his ministers and SYRIZA. Since the first day, personally, I have sent a letter to all Members of Parliament’s chambers with the full details, how much information the Prosecutor’s Office has sent to Parliament and nothing has happened at all. SYRIZA has locked this case-file in the drawer for the serious crimes of the criminal organisation, the environment Samaras. That is why they should stop saying that they are being persecuted because they cover up in this case and cover up, because if the investigation goes ahead, the Golden Dawn will be justified. We are going to the real facts of the 'NOVARTIS' file, because no one has so far spoken of the case-file. I hear songs and voices off the subject. No one has spoken of the horrific evidence that has arisen, through the file sent to the House, and I happened to be one of the first to be the first to be known after the defendants. So protected witness 3 describes in creepy detail and gives shocking evidence of how the suitcase and the mistress entered into in Maximos. He describes Fruzi's phone calls to Maximos, describes how his vehicle entered the Maximos Mansion. It's the image we see - because some people are going to drive us crazy and I'm going to explain - with the ministerial vehicles and the prime minister getting into Maximos and then the passenger of the vehicle climbing the stairs. This picture we have seen describes the witness, which is very specific about the way in which the accused Guardian put the "bricks" with purple, yellow, green notes on the black "SAMSONITE". All these descriptions are gravitational elements which, from the press, come from a person who had the opportunity to see them on his own. What's Samara's answer now? In his apologetic record - because this lawsuit, which, of course, leaked into the press, and which I read, is an apologetic record and refers to facts - what he says? He says, "No way I was brought to Maximou noon, because he may have journalists from the outside." That's the answer. The fact that Maximo has no parking, the image we see with the Prime Minister's vehicles entering Maximo is a magical picture. Or the Guardian, if he had the misagent in the bag, he'd have to park in Kolonaki and take the millions of euros on foot. But in this apologetic record Samaras is subject to a psalmology which makes him guilty. He says it's impossible for Papastavrous to meet the Guardian on this particular day on Tuesday, because on Sunday he was getting married in Spetses. So he came by swimming from Spetses and didn't make it from Sunday to Tuesday to Maximos Mansion. In fact, he is being disproved by his own people, the journalists of the Step, the "BIMATO" who said that since Monday the Papastavros was in Maximos and worked for the obligations with the troika. So here, Samaras is arrested lying while he keeps talking. While he continues to speak, that is, another one - two sues to make another one - two interviews to give Georgiadis and to say what they say, he won't have to call them the corruption investigator, he won't have to send them a call in the name of the law. He'll call them and tell them: "I don't need to, take a taxi with what you have said in public, go straight to the Koudalus. I have no questions." For they themselves, with all that they have said, have made themselves guilty. There is sufficient evidence at the moment, with all that has been put before justice and they have come here to the House, to refer the particular people I have mentioned to justice. Do not forget the case of Michalaki, who was sentenced for passive bribery, only a note. Just this amount was around the few thousand euros and it wasn't felony bribery to go to prison. In the present case, the prosecutor was not even required to send the case-file to the House. As far as money laundering is concerned, it must go on to investigate the case. Of course, it must, invoking Article 4(1) of the Constitution, which says that all citizens are equal to the law, continue to investigate political persons. Why is Michelakis, who has been tried, less equal to the constitution than Samaras, asking for limitations here? Michelakis - yours - has been tried and sentenced for bribery and the offense has not been filed. Why would he quit Samara? There is also Article 26 of the Constitution, which provides for the separation of powers and which expressly states that the House is not vindicating itself. So the whole case, in justice, all in light and not in the House! Since there was a lot of discussion about the prosecutor, Mrs. Helen Ryku, I have to say that it was known in the Greek, when the incident with Mrs. Canelle was at "AND 1". Delatolas called her, said to her: "Come, Helen, go ahead, prosecute" and then put me with the offence of dangerous physical damage to be arrested on an self-sacrificing and show on the channels. So this particular lady, 'La Eleni', resigned because the 'hot' dossier of 'NOVARTIS' fell. And now it turns out because she quit because she didn't want to send her own defendants. I listened with great interest to the excuses expressed by the former Minister of New Democracy, Athanasios, when he referred from this moment on the Step that he had made telephone interventions during the elections of the Chief and Members of Parliament on the Golden Dawn. This man, once again, has made himself guilty. I wish she'd talk about this every day. Every day he gives new evidence that one day they will sit on the stool, because for his intervention, when he called the head of the Chamé Court of First Instance and told her to cut off her neck to tie up the allegedly criminal organisation, he had apologized in 2013 that he called, to see how the situation was going, because we had, he said, apologies and wanted to see if we had condoms or not condoms. Today, he brought in another scenario, that he said, episodes in Hope. And what was that? Minister of Justice or Public Order? He wanted to send the MATs to suppress some fantastic episodes? He was arrested again lying. And here, of course, I say again: If it were not for Tsipras to keep in the file the prosecution's request for investigation of criminal liability, for the crimes committed by the New Democracy, the then Samaras government, at the expense of the Golden Dawn, were all accused of felony.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u466	I shall conclude, Mr President. The New Democracy MP spoke for ten minutes. Ten minutes, I'll stop. Protected witnesses. Beg Samaras and the pluss to stay hooded. Please, because, according to the law he passed, the anonymous witness is not enough to condemn, his testimony must be cross-checked with other evidence and testimonies. But if, for example, Frozi's secretary comes by name and gives the same statement and Samaras comes out as an answer and says that Papastavros was in Spetses and did not have time to come to Athens, then he is condemned. And you know what a crime is being convicted of? It's passive bribery, it's laundering, but - be careful - in this case, the provision on public abuses that are lifelong. This is for some who have not understood how bad they are and how serious crimes they have to deal with. I close with today's very good report by BLOOMBERG, which says that the betrayal of national issues and the emergence of corruption cases essentially highlights the forces of nationalism, they say 'the extreme right', we will say it more simply and understandably, lead to the dynamic rise of the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u467	I will give Mr Lambroulis the floor, because he is going to go to the Chair in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank those colleagues who gave me the opportunity to speak earlier. The Communist Party has already announced it, we have said so, from the Stepping of the House, will vote for the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry and will contribute, as long as it goes through its hand, to revealing the truth and attributing the responsibilities where they exist. However, the more important it is for the people to be fully cleared of this case and no one who is responsible for not falling softly, and so important is that it does not work as a convenient alibi to cover the policy pursued by the anti-grassroots policy, which is the attack on the people's right to health, on access to a free quality medicine. In addition to what will ultimately prove to be the case, from whom, the research, scandalology and the uproar, which has risen, have begun to produce results for the system itself, after being used to load up the scandals, corruption, the misery, the tragic situation of workers, especially in recent years of the capitalist crisis. The aim is to hide the substance, the real scandal, which is the drug - commodity, thus the merchandising of health and welfare, the consequences of the crisis, the anti-grass attack, the memoranda and their direct effects on the health and welfare system, the medicine, with the dramatic cuts that form terrible conditions. Thus, on the occasion of the case of "NOVARTIS", the government, inverting the "we have eaten them together" which was heard as a cause of the crisis, presents scandals, complication and corruption as a cause of state deficits and debts and, in turn, completely unscientific, as a cause of the capitalist crisis. In order to justify the barbaric measures and the cuts it has made, following the previous governments, but also to show itself as a champion of the cleansing that will allegedly eliminate the causes of any future crisis. But what did the government, like the previous ones? On the one hand, it has sought to make oil the system itself, which gives rise to scandals, which have given birth to the crisis and to anti-grass measures, and now requires new sacrifices from the people to recover the profitability of capital and on the other hand to cultivate deceit to the people that, through exam or pre-examination committees, possibly with some scapegoats, it is possible to clear and reorganise the system. At the same time, however, it is a huge challenge for the government to hide, cover up through Scandalism, its anti-grassroots health policy, the drug, following on from previous governments, with the sole aim of reducing the cost of health care for the people. A climax of this effort is the celebration of health cuts and caps, the drug that baptizes them, as did previous governments, as a 'household', 'confidence', 'ordination', while in reality costs are passed on to the direct payments of patients, who are increasing inversely according to the reduction of state pharmacy expenditure. At the same time, the multinationals of the drug are making unsuccessful payments, on which competition for the distribution of the pie and the markets rises. So the highest in relation to the current state pharmacological cost, which existed in the 2000s, was true, in order to ensure universally cheaper or free medicine, or did the state cuts in pharmaceutical expenditure, which accelerated the years of the crisis, have been made on the basis of popular needs, since indirect and direct payments by patients have increased? Thus, the reduction in the pharmaceutical costs, through the cuts in government expenditure, contributed to the fiscal adjustment to the objectives of the bleeding surpluses, so that these resources could be directed to other profitable investments for capital and, on the other hand, it was not for the benefit of the people who continued to pay the medicines. The cuts and caps of public pharmaceutical expenditure, with the responsibility of the current and previous governments, have led to payments being eroded by 9% in 2009, about 30%, today. And that only concerns those medicines that are prescribed and involved in their compensation. At the same time, counting on the drugs of the so-called negative list that are prescribed, but are not compensated by the EEAY, non-prescribed medicines, which are paid 100% by the patient and whose price was released, we have now reached a state and insurance funds to pay 57% and 58% less, while the insured pay more 43% than in 2009. At the same time, it is added that, in the case of any medicinal product imported into the list of ECY-compensated medicinal products, equal value medicinal products should be removed - which will be paid in full by the patients in the framework of the pre-specified and cut-off EEA budgets - and the promotion of closed budgets in the prescription per therapeutic class in combination with the mandatory therapeutic protocols. All of this helps to stop thousands of patients since they cannot buy them. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. So the government, like the previous ones, on the one hand sets out conditions for more profitable action by the multinationals, and on the other, it is trying, by exploiting scandals, to wash away its anti-grass policy, while, on the pretext of the famous resolution of the system, it will continue to cut down on the people. Moreover, in the name of combating corruption in the past, but now measures are being taken. This, however, continues and well held and perpetuates precisely in the territory of politicians, which shield the capitalist gain, which is the real cause of the scandals, the real guilty. And as long as that happens, the medicine, health, will be sloppy for the working class and at the same time, the war will be halved between the multinationals for who will dominate and reproduce corruption, money and more. And that is not the case, no pre-examination can deal with it, just as it has not been dealt with by any legislation. Because, regardless of the outcome of the ‘NOVARTIS’ case, patients with serious health problems will continue to conspire in social pharmacies or be forced to ensure the necessary medication or live daily a Golgotha to perform the simplest prescription to the doctor. In the face of this situation, workers, instead of looking utopianly for capitalism without corruption, scandals and misery, need to fight to extinguish the cause of corruption and scandals, which are the same capitalist property. A prerequisite for this is the break-up and overthrowing of the power of capital and policies that serve, for another organisation of production, with socialisation of the capitalist pharmaceutical industry and all the means of production and central scientific design, which will organise research, production, import and free of charge of quality and effective medicines, with strict scientific criteria, abolishing the various lists and awarding all medicines with state funding through an exclusively state and free health system. And that is all the people can and must impose it. As long as he decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Spyros Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is really the moment of the Greek Parliament and the Hellenic Republic. What would Greek society expect today from the representatives of the two major parties who treat them as inmates but also from the inmates themselves? He would expect a statement from one of your representatives or one of the alleged indulgences to come to Parliament and say a single phrase: 'I accept the political responsibility for the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, since you all admit that there is a scandal! No political responsibility, no scandal! One is that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, we are going through it for now. And tell you that we here are not chasing windmills like Don Quixote. Whatever we say, we're supporting it somewhere. And that comes from and emerges from the criminal lawsuit, not from our minds. However, we will be the first to observe the presumption of innocence. For from the years of Lucianos - as Mr Javaras will recall - the following is guaranteed: "Some gar is focused on the responsible avenger: he is still the unwilling convicted" or in the simple Greek: "Better ninety perpetrators should be acquitted, rather than an innocent man be convicted." We will keep it to the end of the process. I heard Mr Stournara and it was indeed a decent apologetic attitude, but it is not here to tell him that two serious, top inspectors of the Bank of Greece passed the examination and said two things: the two or three last decades were characterized by two things. First of all, it was a party that no one wanted to ruin. And secondly, it was a bubble that no one wanted to break. They're your people, we're not. In view of this, is there corruption in the country? Second question: is there corruption in health? Third question: is there corruption also in health? The answer: There is mostly corruption in health. And now I'm going to reveal the gang, which is in favour of this version, a gang of really heated criminals. First, Mr Kremastinos, who, in his speech in a study of the Magrakopoulos Foundation for Corruption, says: "When I saw the issues of deficits in 2000, 2 billion, in 2004 100%, i.e. 4 billion and 17,5 billion in 2009, I scared and hurt" - I would have them here and put them to you at the end - 'And the question was who did these, who ate them, where did the money?' And that is the big question that the House must investigate today. Where'd the money go to answer Mr. Cremastino's racing question? Let's go to the second conspiracy, Mr. Rakiji. Who has placed him as Public Administration Inspector? SYRIZA? Of course not! From 2009 to 2014 he was your man or, anyway, he was a decent, virtueless man with huge, rich knowledge and experience. So what does Mr. Rakitzis say? It says that corruption in health is one of the most basic, if not the sole, factors leading the country to bankruptcy, black money in health. I've got his study here, and I'll testify to you at the end. Third conspiracy - this is your doom, Mr Georgiadis - Mr Sourlas with two papers. One is for the Magatopoulou Foundation and says that where there is political will there is no corruption and where there is corruption there is no political will. He says in particular: 'There is a responsibility of all political leaders.' I have been aware of this, and I have told you from the outset that I expect a statured political man to come to at least take political responsibility, as they deny criminal responsibility. They don't even do that, and that's sad. Also, in a report submitted by Mr Sourlas as Secretary-General for Transparency and Rights in 2013, what does he say? It says something shocking, which it was tabled to the Committee of Inquiry into Health, when we were investigating "ERRIKOS D.D." What's he saying? In 2013, his report mentions an event which should not escape anyone's attention. A document came from the criminal department of the US Ministry of Justice, which says certain pharmaceutical companies were convicted, because they bribed state officials in Greece and imposed the US state 350 million fine. And since 2011, he has said that this recommendation from both the OECD and the United States has been ignored. The indifference, indifference and I do not know what else the Greek state was characteristic, and as a result the OECD will make a special recommendation to ignore this phenomenon. So these are the conspiracy conspiracies. And we're going to solve two issues. Do you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, have a single line here today? So let's see what Mr. Voridis said. He said that we lack sufficient evidence to get to the proposal for a preliminary examination. Mr. Stamatis said that it was wrong for the prosecutors to send, even with these greasy evidence. It had to be without delay, without any evidence, for the litigation to come to the House. Set them up, find them to have a specific proposal for everyone, finally be grouped and finally know what you stand for as a party. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Now, something to be cleared up. You have to understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not legal, that our proposal for a preliminary examination does not mean any criminal prosecution or sufficient evidence leading to criminal prosecution. We want elementary and, as Mr. Loverdes says in an analysis in a book, necessary evidence where there is a probability, simple probability, so that we can go to the creation of a preliminary committee, a preliminary examination. They don't need enough evidence. Adequate evidence is an object, Minister, and we all know that as lawyers, only at the stage of the pre-examination procedure, which will exercise the criminal prosecution. There are also studies, there is case law, and I will end this. One is that. Secondly, who will judge whether this mere possibility and the necessary measure exists today, to make our proposal to set up a pre-review committee? Any court officers? No, ladies and gentlemen. It is only the House House that has to be involved in the interna corporis of the House. This cannot be done, if the decision is taken in good or wrong, by another judicial or procedural body at the next stage. It will be final, last but not least final, and cannot be offended by anyone for any reason. Let's know what we're talking about! Besides, can I tell you something? Annulment is provided for in our proposal, only for one reason, and Rule 154 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure states that if the proposal is not written and if it is not signed by at least 30 Members. There is no other reason to invalidate the proposal for a preliminary examination. No reason at all! That is why we say that within the framework of the House, and that is where this proposal is being discussed alone. Forget the courts, forget the courts, forget the judges! Here, in the sovereign House, which is plenary, everything will be judged and decided here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u471	Funerals!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u472	What kind of "livers", Ms. Pappiga? Who's the zipper?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u473	What you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u474	Finish, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u475	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to say about something that has been said about without delay. We have to understand that the irreversible concept of sending the prosecutor's case-file to the House, which has been formed in elementary terms. Can he have a telegram and say I blame Mr. Lappa, for coming the telegram against Lappa without being investigated in any way, without signalling or having a basis as a possibility of conceiving any responsibilities? Unfortunately, case law is in favour of our evenings and I will give you the case law. I'm just finishing up on the subject...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Lappa, don't get any more topics. Please, finish it. You're already in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u477	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll talk because there's been a report of the protected witnesses. Does anyone think, ladies and gentlemen, that today we could discuss the Panama papers, the Paradise papers, the LuxLeaks, if there was not the institution of the protected witnesses? Would we hear about Julian Assage, about Edward Snowden and Antoine Deltur, about WikiLeaks? Today, on a global level, there is a huge debate about the revelations of these people, precisely because they were protected witnesses. And you know that the protection of witnesses in this institution, observed in this case, goes far away. Even their personality, their elements, can be protected, relocated to another country, because the legislator understands that for him who reveals signs and monsters for a company with huge interests, with lingerie sums, even economic and political influence, risks for him, for his family, for his physical integrity, for a threat to his life still exist. That's what the legislator says. Therefore, the institution of the protected witnesses in both Greece and internationally is very beneficial for the disclosure, not only of the scandals and the start of the investigations, but even for the exercise of criminal prosecution. Let's imagine that there weren't any of these protected witnesses. Would there be a legal case for "NOVARTIS" today?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Lappa, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u479	I shall conclude, Mr President. Open a parentheses. Mr. Venizelos, other colleagues have spoken before me and eleven minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u480	What's my fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u481	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I close with this: Open a parentheses! If there was no such institution of the protected witnesses, do you believe that a witness with the risk of such enormous interests and injuring risks for him and his acquaintances, would there be a chance that he will come to the judicial body and face of a card to deposit what is being submitted by the witnesses? And add the witnesses...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u482	Please, Mr. Lappa!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, at the standpoint of the political system in the face of the scandal - everyone calls it scandal now - there is a dilemma, a displacement, from the construction, we went to accepting all the political parties that there is a scandal. Keep that the political system must implement and be proud of what Hippocrates said two and a half thousand years ago: "The city's morale is like the rulers." I would like to say, Mr President, all the information I have invoked. Everything comes from documents, that is, from Mr Rakintzis, the timely question, a book and the case law of the Ice Arena. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Lappa, to talk to you ten minutes, I won't talk at all. Is that fair? Excuse me! The series is as follows: Mr. Megalumustakas, Mr. Koutsoukos, Mr. Javaras, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Samaras. If we do not take care of a little time, I have the impression that five to six Members left to talk - Mr Dritsa, you are, too - we will not finally talk to what is happening now. Mr. Megamystakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u485	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we have to take the view that the scandal exists. NOVARTIS has been accused and sentenced to too many countries. It has paid fines, which in no way correspond to the money, which has been deprived of by each state and which has been abused. We saw what was her fine in the United States of America and we hope that after the investigation and at the end of this trial, something similar will not happen in Greece as well. We must claim what we have lost from this scandal, and we must not rejoice at all, as was done with other scandals. In this scandal, apart from what we are discussing today, information from the FBI tells us about four thousand doctors, government officials, other actors. We mustn't lose that. We must not look at the pit and the fuss, which has risen for many reasons not to see the substance of the matter. We are here to judge our colleagues and to judge all of us for our decisions. We must not, however, lose the essence of the matter. We must claim what has been lost and at least not allow what has been happening for so many years. The question is not to continue this picture. I have heard too many colleagues - and rightly so - say that after they have taken out some people in front of them as suspects, they have been targeted. And they're right, because that's how Greek society works. But I didn't see anyone up here wondering why. To this end, everyone is responsible, and the old people who ruled, but you too are ruling today, because you just don't believe you no matter what you say. Our previous ones have reached this point and you have come and you are putting all your strength into this fight your own little bit. Because that's what you're doing. I have said this from this moment forward that the depreciation of the political system is not just because of the previous ones, but also because of the other ones you are feeding and others. That is what you are saying today and other things you say tomorrow, even about your policy on this matter. And that has weaknesses. Too many weaknesses. I have already heard a fellow speaker who said that you should not take what you see on television as de facto. Not even as basic evidence to accuse someone we have to get evidence that we can read in a newspaper. Because first we read them in newspapers, first we heard them in words and then the file came into our hands. There's a mistake here somewhere. I have not heard anyone talk about it from the government at all times. But let's see what happens on the other side. I have heard all the rapporteurs say - especially of counter-population - that they have tried too hard to reduce pharmaceutical costs. Yeah, they tried. They were reduced, but much of the money that had to be paid for the medicines was passed on to the citizens. We must not overlook that. In particular, we must not overlook the fact that these expenditures were created by those who were in power. Who ruled from 2000 to 2009? It's five times the cost. Why? Why were you forced by PASOK and New Democracy to reduce this expenditure? Have you wondered? And those who have ruled so far have political responsibilities which have not looked into it, have not investigated it in depth, in order to find the responsibilities. Because it's taken that there was a problem, that there was a scandal. Now, who's involved in this scandal, we have to find it. Therefore, we cannot oppose any pre-inquiry. We cannot go against anything, which helps us to improve the situation in the country a little. Another thing I would like to comment on is the designation of witnesses as 'gullars'. It's not right. You know that very well. It's a law brought by you. Regardless of how the government's colleagues manage their statements, we do not have the right to call them hoods. For the sake of such witnesses, too great scandals have been made, and we must respect that. Because what we're talking about, it all comes sometime in front of us. You have seen what has happened to the members of the government and I hope that we do not pursue such a policy so that we too can be exposed. We are now going to make mistakes, which all those who supported this proposal from the point of view of convergence. Unfortunately - and I say, unfortunately, because I regret - none of the speakers here from the Stepma have explained to us why there is no call for the PK. I have not heard anyone at all explain why there is no call for the PK to defend this choice. Shouldn't you? The opposition has made too many references. Shouldn't you explain to us why you shouldn't let that be misled? Therefore, it is good to be more careful. We, too, as a Centro Association, do not see that, since the witness testimonies so far, a serious basis has been created, on which to press, to chase all those who are accused today. In other words, we should not stand up in the press reports 'I have the impression that, because a lot of money has been given, we should also take the politician', nor do we raise the tone, because we have no evidence. We would first be the ones who would lift the flag in such a struggle, but if we had any evidence. And he who was across the street may also be the current Prime Minister. We must be very careful about what we do and what we say. Nor was the Foreign Minister's report correct to prove their innocence. We must not forget our Constitution. It is clear that it no longer respects much of Parliament's Constitution, which we are serving today. Also, the way you administered this entire file was irregular, and the visit of your Minister and the statements made after the meeting with the Prime Minister. Did they have the right to do them? Even if they had a right, is it right? Should we not first be here to take the case-file into our hands and then open them up, say their opinion, if they want to? Once again, however, this case-file cannot be said to be a scandal of the century. It's a scandal. However, from what we have read so far, we cannot be so sure of what has been said in particular on the part of the government. What I want to stress is that our politicians must develop the morality of the Greeks. And how are we gonna do that? Surely we will not succeed by yelling at each other, yelling at each other and not standing at the heart of things. I, what I would like to see today, is that there is a consultation between everyone, a common line and say yes, we will look at the scandal, if they are our own insides, we will be together to set them up on the wall, but we cannot go that way. How long do we need? Because, to say what you're saying, you have to rely on evidence. Do you know when these will come? Can you tell us? The Greek people have lost their faith in politicians. It's not just those who are accused today, it's all taking the ball. All of them! We must therefore all be serious and measured in what we say. We're in a difficult situation. There's no need to split. We don't have to blame each other without any evidence. It's disastrous for us, and we shouldn't go on with it. What we want is to shed plenty of light. We want it to be pre-examination and to reach the end, for the sake of everyone and those who are accused, because those who have done nothing will be acquitted, but above all for the good of the country. We need to see who they are that led us to where we are now. We didn't all eat them together. Neither did the ordinary Greek citizens eat them, nor did they all in here. Maybe none of them were in here. We need to find out who ate them and how to target them and not exist in the atmosphere that all politicians are the same and all do the same, so we do not deal with them, and we see these abstentions that we see. Let's all get a little serious in here so Greece can get better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u486	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th Lamia High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u487	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a pleasant day. No Member of Parliament would want to be in the position that I am today. As much as I love noise and I have never denied it until today in my life, I assure you that none of you would want to be in my place today. I understand that, especially in the majority sector, I do not have much sympathy. I believe, however, that there are a number of people conscious to judge what I am about to say with justice and to try, in so far as the honest relationship of politicians determines, to get off me - firstly, as I speak, but I also believe in all the others, judging from my own case - the whole slander. You know, I am in a very difficult position, because I am well aware, I have no delusion that today's Greek society, almost all of the citizens, believe that all politicians take them. We may be talking about the presumption of innocence, but in fact we all know that for politicians there is rather a 'crime of guilt' than a presumption of innocence in Greek society. So, I'm gonna have to cut a lot in the rest of my life to convince those who trust me that all this shadow that's fallen on me will be gone and fast. That is why I would like to tell you in advance that I disagree with your proposal on the limitation of infidelity. I do not know why, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have chosen to vote on this. Obviously for Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis. I'll tell you right away why I disagree. I would like to use the clauses of the Kastanidis Act and the Constitution's provisions so that if the preliminary committee considers that it can prosecute me for infidelity, like, of course, for bribery, I would ask in writing to be tried and not to hide behind any limitations. I imagine that Mr. Kurublis, who is accused of a crime of infidelity, would like to do exactly the same. I do not understand why you deprive him of this right, in order to decide that infidelity has been omitted, and in order to accept the provisions of the Kastanidis Act and the Constitution, they should be made at the level of the preliminary committee. I would now like Mr Kurubli to ask him to be in the committee so that he, too, can ask for a trial for any infidelity and not hide behind the limitation. Indeed, I challenge him even more for this reason. Because the Prime Minister has stated that whoever talks about limitation is guilty. And so far, the only ones who are talking about deletion are you in your proposal as to the infidelity of Mr Kurubli. But let's go in a row. First of all, the famous NOVARTIS scandal, which started as the biggest scandal of Metapolistism, with the headlines of your friendly press for accounts with 50m euros of black money, from what I learned today from the rapporteur of the ANELs, is the 'COPALIA' scandal, Mr President. Yes, sir. One medicine - says - on Georgia, specifically in August 2013, the 'COPALIA' - three specifically wrote yesterday the 'Recipients' - was up from EUR 15 to EUR 17. This is the NOVARTIS scandal that I specifically heard from a rapporteur. Because the former did not say anything about the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Fortunately, Mr. Blonde is present. Mr. Xanthi, I'd like your attention a little. Mr. Blonde, I mention him because I consider him an honest man. I will ask him to answer his speech next: is the Minister taking out the prices of medicines, Minister? Are you taking out the prices of medicines or the relevant committees? Or in our time, or in your time. I shall therefore submit to my good colleagues in the 'Privats Newspaper', who yesterday gave me the honour to have three drugs, three lies, eleven medicines of 'NOVARTIS', which have increased from the latest price report of the Samara government on 7 August 2014 to the present issue of the Tsipras Government on 22 February 2018 - an increase of course and eleven - as follows: ALCAINE has an increase of 354%, from 1.38 euros to 4,88 euros - the truth is a little greater than 'COPALIA' - and 8%, 4%, 5%, 2%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 7%, 7% and 3%. I'll give it to you. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A simple breakthrough in the 'Green' and a comparison of the two tabs will convince you that at least eleven medicines - obviously, they are more, but those of 'NOVARTIS' - have increased on the first time on the left. That's a big scandal! Let me make it clear: I do not think it is possible to increase them. On the contrary. I imagine that you have no involvement in increasing these prices, because you cannot, as I have not. I demand you recognize this, which you will recognize for yourself for the specific price increases of "NOVARTIS". But let's go see a little more specifically, because I want to start by talking to these categories and then say the general ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I am accused of two basic things: first and foremost, for which I am accused, it is allegedly - beware! - I found 65 million euros. Mrs Kelesis said: "In particular, I have to report to you: Mr.Georgiadis at a time of great financial closeness for Greece has provided money for the repayment of public debt to NOVARTIS of EUR 65 million, which was disproportionately large compared to the amount paid to the other pharmaceutical companies for the same reason. This has caused great..." etc. And he says: 'I know that Mr Georgiadis has made an agreement with Mr Frouzi to receive, in exchange for this service, an amount of about 2 million, which he received immediately after the payment of 65 million'. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen, a critical detail: This statement is the first of 6 November. It's my birthday day. He doesn't say when I got it, I didn't even give the 65 million. It says in general that I gave 65 million and I took 2 million. But because God loves the thief, but he also loves the housekeeper - because that matters what I'm going to say next - the lady witness remembered in her last statement when I got them. Be careful, her first statement is November 6th. Her last statement, when she remembered when I got them, was February 4th. After three months, he remembered! It's okay. It's good for me. Listen, what the false witness says in her last statement: "I know specifically that Mr. Frouzis met with Adoni Georgiadis on September 9, 2013 at the Ministry of Health and the following on September 10, 2013, he also met with Mr. Adonnis Georgiadis and Mr. Ioannis Stournaras at the Ministry of Health on September 10, 2013. Mr. Frouzis also met with Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Frouzis on September 30th, as is apparent from the relevant notes by Mr. Frouzi, where he said that he had made an appointment with Mr. Georgiadis on September 30th half an hour after normal. This note meant that this meeting took place half an hour after the Minister's main meeting with Mr. Frouzi and representatives of other pharmaceutical companies with a view to being alone with the Minister, so that he could hand over the money he had with him to the suitcase, as I have already given you." [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] So what does Mrs. False martyr say? It says that between the months of June 26, 2013, where I took over the Minister of Health, and September 30, 2013 we had given NOVARTIS 65 million, far over all other companies, and that is why I and 1 million Mr Stournaras, or 3 million. I shall submit to this House some information, which I have done with great numbers for Mr Polakis. If the Chief Prosecutor had just asked for the EPO's payments, he would have realised that this is a lie. Why? I will testify, just to read it to you for reasons of history. I read: June 2013, how much did NoVARTIS get? Zero. July 2013: 11,000 euros. August 2013: 202,000 euros. Today is 11.300,000 euros. September 2013: 8,000 euros. We're at 19,000 euros. I have received 2,000,000 myself and 1,000,000 Stournaras for some 65,000,000 euros, which have never been given to "NOVARTIS". Now watch the even better! The same time the next year has taken Novartis 400,000,000 euros. For the first time left in 2017 it has taken 60,000,000 euros! I'm filing them in the minutes dedicated to the D.A. who didn't ask for them. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So to understand, ladies and gentlemen, why I am accused: I took EUR 2,000,000 and EUR 1,000,000, for fantasticly EUR 65,000,000. Please note, it is also important for this to be of benefit to NOVARTIS, the following elements. I present to you the annual turnover of NOVARTIS, as it is from the company's balance sheets: in 2009 it had a turnover of 440,000,000 euros. In 2010 he had a turnover of 417,000 euros. In 2011 he had 440,000,000 euros. In 2012 he had 410,000 euros. In 2013, it had 381,000 euros. In 2014, which is the application of all my laws, he had a turnover of 337,000 euros. Note that in 2015 with the "first time left" it already went to 341,000 euros and today it runs with over 370,000 euros. This means that the lowest turnover of the NOVARTIS company for the last fifteen years has been in my office. But NOVARTIS paid me to cut her money! [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the EUR 65 million, then, I have no more to tell you. You understand - because I think you're good-looking people - that it's funny to have paid for something NOVARTIS has not collected. But let's go to the second class. For this second category - and those who know me will understand what I mean - I've been doing great exercises of patience in order not to answer all this time. I wanted for this second category to let the Prime Minister or spokesman of Prime Minister Vaxebanes be exposed with stupid networks online, get the headlines out in your friendly press, and keep blaming me for what I will have made legends in the next few minutes of the hour. What's the second charge? That's where he's involved - I'll tell you, it's a little funny - the so-called Harvard Project. What was Harvard Project? Actually, I don't know exactly what it was. I went not to the Concert Hall, because it doesn't even know, but at the King George Hotel where I was actually invited to speak as Minister of Health and to greet in a space - be careful! - who was under the auspices of the World Health Organization, Harvard University and the University of Athens, because after me was the Rector, Mr. Thanos Diopoulos. But I'm going through this. What's the funny thing now? That's nice. What does the witness say? "Why, ladies and gentlemen...", she says in her statement, "was the University of Harvard chosen to make the Harvard Project through it and to get paid for the new medicines "NOVARTIS" in the system? Not because Harvard is what it is, but because that is where Antonis Samaras graduated from." It's a good thing Mr. Samaras went to Harvard - Mr. President, I'm sorry, but he doesn't mention you - because otherwise this "John" there in Massachusetts would have no reputation. Fortunately, that's why Mr. Strategic has chosen it! I leave that because you understand how ridiculous it is. But I'm actually going. What does that second charge say? Mr Vaxevanis has already said this in this video, which has been uploaded - I see it, and laugh at it - with a terrible emphasis. He thinks he's found the way I took the money. So what did he say? See what the "big" Vaxevanis, this researcher of journalism with the "big nose" that doesn't miss anything. He said that Georgiadis and Samaras and Stournara were being paid through the Harvard Project - for what reason? - to put the new drugs on the list. In fact, already the first four new medicines of "NOVARTIS" were placed on the list in August 2013. There is specific mention of one of the witnesses on the August 2013 issue that I cannot read to you, because this is the ever more dissatisfied. So it's really fun. So we have here the witness, who says that in August 2013, the four medicines "NOVARTIS" entered, which were not supposed to enter. And of course, by entering these medicines of NOVARTIS, Mr Georgiadis - I have now managed to find it, because it is a lot of fun, I do not want to miss it, the witness is Mr Anastasios, it is even better - put the four medicines of NOVARTIS in the price report, and he should not have put them on. Yes, sir! I read from the witness - it is a lot of fun - since he has said that in August 2013, in particular, on 6-8-2013, I have put these four medicines, Minister of Justice, now hear a witness dialogue with a prosecutor. Question of the Prosecutor: "How do you explain that the price sheet with the new drugs on 6-8-2013 is signed by the State Secretary?" "The newspaper, for which I am accused, has been signed by my State Secretary, Mr. Bessas. I have not signed it myself." And the DA seriously asks: "But how has Bess signed it?" And listen to the witness's answer: "It is noted that the Minister, who was then Adonis Georgiadis, will sign it. The Undersecretary shall sign if he is authorised. I take the view that there was oral consultation with the Head of State, who also had responsibility - I, that is - and the effective supervision of the drugs issue." So, what did I do to unravel myself in the price sheet of 6-8-2013? I've had Mr. Bessa, my friend, sign for my demolition. Mr. Secretary of Justice, do you control the prosecutor's adequacy? I'm really saying it now. Do you control her? Have you asked justice to control her?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u488	What about us? The government?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u489	I'll come to them later. If I ask someone, why am I a minister and have the authority of Vorides, who is my friend, to go sign the price note, a price note is issued without the signatory having the power? Is that possible? So learn to find out, too, that the main prosecutor and I submit the relevant FECs. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Bezas was responsible for the price card, which I am accused of, because I took the responsibility for a month and a half of a month later, and I submit both of them. And that is why I do not sign the price note, which was not issued by me, but issued by my State Secretary. But it's clear. There's nothing wrong with this card. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let me come to the major charge now, to understand the size of the form, because these witnesses are obviously spoken. It's not discussed. They're extremely talked. They investigated earlier months to end up what they will say to agree to the Vaxeban articles and what Tsipras had said in the House. Please note that the number of 65 million, which I supposedly gave to Novartis, did not come out at random. Do you know why he came out? Because I have a dispute with Mr Vaxvanes on a front page that he had written: 'Georgiadis' 65 million gift at NoVARTIS.' We've been to court, she's asked twice for a postponement, and there's no trial, and she should have a press release that fits. But what he had written about the ministerial decision has already fallen from one false witness - as you say, fine - they had to find something else. And they put another 65 million, so that Vaxebane can go to court and say: “Okay, I put 65 million gifts. It's not that 65 million. It is another 65 million.’ But they're screwed because they set the date. I'm going to the big one now. I say again: What is it that I, Samaras and Stournaras did? Not on my own, all together. There was a Harvard Project, where there was money brought in by NOVARTIS. You have already heard Mr Stournara say how much money has come out of this event: EUR 2,700 for Mrs Lina Nikolapoulou, for which I would like to say something from the Stepma and not forget it. Mrs. Lina Nikolapoulou is a huge victim of history. It's embarrassing what you're doing. It's a disgrace to those who do it. It's a disgrace! The lady has been known to have a huge career in the health field for decades, enjoying absolute respect and certainly is neither a loot nor a crook as you present it. I'm closing the parentheses. So we were getting paid. Why were we paying? It says Mr Vaxevanis in the video and in the articles and in the publications, and all of them: 'To put...' - says - 'the new medicines of 'NOVARTIS' and, indeed, to run counter to the troika'. Mr Vaxvanis says, in fact, that 'proof of the dome and of the money' is that Mr Georgiadis, who was known as the Memorandum of Understanding and has always been with the Troika, is in the introduction of new drugs'. So, the Georgian Memorandum that was with the Troika, but especially this one went against the Troika, why did he go against the Troika? Because he's got 'em. And where did he get it from? Harvard University. Mr Vataxvanis may be good in mud, but in the study he is completely illiterate. I read the following, which I will submit to you in the Minutes: "The second economic adjustment programme for Greece thisrd review, July 2013". It's the Memorandum. You know the memorials now, you've heard! Then you didn't know well. Now you've heard! On page 161 of the memorandum, which I wished to apply and for which I was controlled by the troika in the evaluation, if I applied it, reads: "Government...", I, "...revises downward the Price of Medicines..." - that is, downloads the prices of medicinal products - "... based on the three EU countries with the lowest price... - according to the three lower countries - '...in line with the provisions of Council Directive 89/105/EEC. In other words, it must fully implement the Directive under number 89/105 of the European Economic Community. I've also raised you here to enjoy my friend, Mr. Vaxevanis. I'll give it a whole next. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does this directive say? What was I supposed to do to be okay with the troika? I read it to you: 'The Member States shall ensure that the price decision, to which the medicinal product in question may be charged - the new ones -'received and notified to the applicant within ninety days of receiving an application from the marketing authorisation holder in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Member State concerned. The applicant shall provide the competent authorities with all appropriate information. If the information provided in support of the application is inappropriate, the competent authorities shall immediately communicate to the applicant what additional detailed information is required and shall take their final decision within 90 days of receipt of this additional information.’ So, what did the Troika and the Memorandum tell me then? That I'm going to be checked in two phases in September - so they entered in August - and in December, if I'm gonna have put all the new drugs on the list and I should have been checked by the Troika on whether they've been in. I also give you the relevant document. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I did not disagree with the troika, according to Mr Vaxebanes's logic. I simply applied the memorandum, which I had to implement. And now you know what you'll say to apply the Memorandum. Previously, a few days ago, you didn't take the dose because you missed two boxes and Mr. Tsakalotos is looking for them. So I think we've reached an agreement on the new drugs. But, as I keep listening to these new medicines, I will be allowed to say something else: in the famous Besa Bulletin, on which Mr Vaxevanis has made two headlines, one of the "Preservers' Newspaper", I am told about these four drugs. You should know these four drugs are orphan medicines. This will say that their sales refer to one in fifty thousand. We are talking about drugs that are extremely low, because they are very rare diseases. I'm presenting you with the whole list of new medicines on that card. ‘NOVARTIS’ is in position 71. It's the seventy-first company in the number of new medicines in this newsletter. Very discreet and favourable treatment would be for NOVARTIS to be in position 71! But I ask the Minister of Health: why, Minister, are you blaming me and letting me be blamed? Aren't you putting new drugs on the list of "NOVARTIS"? And you're doing well, and you're putting it in. And I don't even imply that you're getting caught to put it in. I'm putting the list on you because you know it and the others don't know it. Because Mr. Kourublis didn't get a price sheet to put on new drugs. He's got another problem. Mr Xanthos has already put fourteen new medicines in the 'NOVARTIS'! [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned price sheet for medicinal products, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder, Mr Vaxebanes and the editors' Newspaper did not see this? And because Mr Vaxevanis said, "it is very expensive the medicine that Georgiadis put on. It does 4,000 euros," do you know how much the last Mr. Xanthos, the Ilaris, is doing? It's 11,208! And take Mr Xanthos's list of new medicines 'NOVARTIS'. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the list mentioned above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Can you imagine to tell anyone who puts new drugs on the list that he took them? In the end, the patients in Greece will die because they will not dare sign! Now listen, to understand it well: How does a new drug get on the list? How did he get in these days? The system has changed a little now, Mr. Blondos. I'm not into criticism now, it's his thing. He's a minister! Did the Minister put the drugs on? Oh, no! There was a price committee at the Ministry of Health with thirteen people. To get the new drugs in, there was a second committee - and the first and second in August 2013 my predecessor, Mr Salmas, was appointed by my predecessor, led by Christina Papanikolaou - who, on various criteria, put what new drugs would be put in first. This committee had seven people. Thirteen and seven are 20. And after the twenty people there was a third committee, which decided on their compensation, the positive list committee. A total of thirty-three different people had to sign up to the Minister's file. So what are you serious about? That I, the first month I was a Minister of Health, managed to convince 30 people, of whom I hadn't appointed anyone yet, to put medications because I had caught them? And one of the thirty three did not say "re, Georgiade, what are you doing?" And I didn't have the authority. But who believes that? My child who's three and a half years old doesn't believe them. And here, take it from my committee, which took place on 12 September, after that has come to light. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The previous committee was made by Mr Mario Salma. The only difference is that I added three more people, I made the committee more transparent. So I think with what I told you, you realize that... Mr Psariano, you know, you will forgive me, because here I come after a 10-year-old course in Parliament, during which no one has dared to imply something against me - and I mean my morality, because in my political view I have made many fights - and I am accused of having taken 2 million euros. And they put my secretary in to get into the house and bully her like they're gonna find the millions there. They're doing good! Wherever they want, let's get in! So, you will forgive me, that tension I have right now. But what is the most outrageous, ladies and gentlemen, is that SYRIZA blames me! This really is above rivers. And you know why it's above rivers? Many times, you tried to say why you did not vote on all the measures to reduce expenditure. He said Mr. Lappas earlier that the expenditure had gone away. Mr. Lappa, do you know how much I took as Minister and then Mr. Voridis and of course the previous ones, Mr. Salmas, Mr. Loverdos, who SYRIZA voted against and had not voted for one? I only tell you that my law - Mr Panayotopoulos mentioned this, but he forgot to say that it is my law - n.4213/2013, provided: The maximum value of reference medicinal products under the protection of the first active substance is defined as the average of the three lowest prices of the Member States of the European Union. According to the above subparagraph, maximum values must be regularly revised downwards at a time, as set out in a price sheet. As far as the prices of the originals and the others are concerned, no increases are allowed unless corrections are made. Don't forget that. And in here I've reduced the generics to 65% from 80% to on patent. And the main thing I've put into the law, which SYRIZA voted against at the time, is that the drugs that lose their patent go straight to 50%. And if the average of the three lowest prices in Europe is below 50%, then we go below to the lowest. If, however, the average of the three lowest prices is over 50%, we go to 50%. What did that do? Heavy profit loss for NOVARTIS. That's why she fell. And now let's go understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u490	Mr. Georgiadis, please, slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u491	I just need five more minutes. Listen: I present to you the table by ELSTAT, Mr President of Parliament - because to me my greatest title as Minister is here, it is the table by ELSTAT - where my year totals the lower public health expenditures of the last ten years. And they have the nerve to blame me. I read: ‘Total public funding for expenditure: EUR 8,194,000’. Already the first year of the Left this has become 8.704 million euros and is still coming up. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] SYRIZA's law that I mentioned to you voted against him. Watch out now, 'cause that's something interesting. If you get the price card before the law and the price note after the law, with a simple button on the enter, how many drugs have been reduced. And do you know how much they've reduced? Seven thousand five hundred ninety - nine drugs at nine thousand. It is the largest overall reduction in drug prices that has ever been made in Greece. And while we lowered the prices to seven thousand and ninety-nine drugs, you, Mr. Tsipras, voted against him. Do you know who else was against it? I therefore give the House two press releases, the TFEU, signed both by the famous Mr Constantine Frouzi. In a post in 2013, which concerns my law, Mr. Frouzis, since he blames me for reducing expenditure, says that at the same time - listen, because you often say it on the channels and I love it - there will also be a direct negative impact on the pricing of medicines in European or other countries, without our country benefiting from it. I am accused of the exact return from what you say, of having an influence on prices and on NOVARTIS downwards throughout Europe, because we are a country of low prices. And listen to the even better. It has a whole press release, Mr. Fruzzis, in which he calls on the political parties not to accept a reduction in expenditure. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press releases, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I also present SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Xanthi, Mr. Kourublis and Mr. Bashkozou. Mr. Tsipras tried to explain why he didn't vote for my law then. What did he say? Georgiadis in his first report posted two hundred and thirty-eight drugs and has to be checked for that. You are not telling me, Minister, I 'bad' put up the two hundred and thirty-eight drugs. You, who didn't make the card a year, so you didn't fix the prices of the two hundred and thirty-eight drugs that went up, aren't you responsible if these were illegally uploaded? Why did I bring them up illegally? So a year that you - and it has not been omitted for your term of office, took place after September 2015 - you were selling them at the highest price, at more expensive prices, and you should not, on the basis of what you say here, have to go to jail. I'm so sorry. But I say to you not to worry why the prices of medicines have rightly gone up. They were made as a result of corrections, as provided for by the law and not because no company was favoured. Now listen to the best. Mr Papagelopoulos, who is not here now, should have been - as you have all seen - Mr President, you were not in the Chamber - admitted two things to the House: the first that he had received a partial briefing. And when I asked him to tell me which verse of the Constitution was founded on his right to be informed, he fled the back door. And you know what else he admitted? That he did speak with Mrs Tulupaki all the time, but his phone calls were not illegal. Oh, no? And where do we know, Mr. Papagelopoulos? Now, Mr. Papaggiopoulou's phone has to be opened. You know - I've been made a specific complaint and I'm waiting for the prosecutor to make a statement - how many times she's been talking to Mrs. Toulopakis on the phone? He spoke twenty-five times a day, Mr. Papagelopoulos spoke with Mrs. Toulopakis. That's how he learned the course of the deposit if he didn't set it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Georgiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u493	Two more minutes, Mr President. Here's what Mr. Bascozos said, next to Mr. Tsipras, about why you didn't vote for the law. That's very interesting. Mr Papagelopoulos, the night he described NoVARTIS as the greatest scandal of all time, what did he say? Your Honor, look out, it's for you. He said it was the biggest scandal of all time because, while the drug expenditure had to be 1%, thanks to the previous measures - it was mentioned in the previous period - it went to double. I am reading what Mr Baskozos said - now Secretary General of the Ministry of Health - next to Mr Tsipras at the press conference, where you explained why you did not vote on the law: 'First, from where and until the Memorandum's objective of dropping public pharmaceutical expenditure to 1% must be a national objective and we must all share it.' Mr. Baskozos asked for EUR 500 million a year in the pharmaceutical industry. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That was the main argument for voting against my law. We've downloaded the expenditure. We've downloaded the profits. We had all the drug-industrial enemies. You voted against it all. Why did you vote against them? Why did you ask for more than 500 million in this House and for 'Novartis'? And you have the face to talk! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm presenting for the Minutes and the Harvard Project program. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above programme, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The witness - so well-informed - said it was at the Concert Hall. Let him know that it was at 'King George'. And I ask now: will the Minister for Health not go to say hello to a WHO conference, Harvard University and Athens University? Are we serious? Put Dinotopoulos in. So I'm tabling this for the Minutes to understand the size of the preparation. Why is it a craft? It is a craft, ladies and gentlemen, for this simple reason: Let us assume that some witnesses, who you did not know them at all, self-advisedly went and testified these terrible things against eight Ministers and two Prime Ministers, what would be such a serious move for the witnesses in terms of justice and government? The full respect of the procedure. Such a serious subject doesn't raise the slightest joke. Everyone understands, Minister of Justice, that on such a serious matter the first issue, which everyone will then look at, is whether the conditions of the procedure have been complied with. How do you explain, Minister of Justice, that Mr. Paulice was fourteen days before the courtesy came to Parliament - 14 days ago! - writes on facebook, because of the condemnation of Michalakis to the first degree: "Take excellence with the scoop... and come another very large... din - dan, tok - tok". The "din-dan, t-k-k" is his mind the cage. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u494	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u495	Now listen. How do you explain, Minister of Justice, that 10 days before the House took the file, the Minister of National Defence puts the following on its twitter: "Now that NOVARTIS is coming", you will understand why the three bodyguards and the snatchy editors of the CEDEFOP have ravaged against me." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Excuse me, Minister of Justice, are you not in favour of keeping the procedure and of checking that it was respected? Who made these leaks in half the Ministerial Council? Don't you feel remorse about that? You're telling me we're interfering with justice. I asked you a question about Mr Paulakis' repeated insults a year ago against the judges. Do you remember when he mentioned an Attorney's Attorney, saying "he's getting it," he was talking about offense, etc.? Do you know what the Minister of Justice answered me to the question? 'The complaints made by Mr Polakis have not been understood.' When Paulis found half the justice in this House, it was not an intervention, it was a pain in the intervention that we are asking for the procedure to be checked, and if the conditions were met, Mr Lappa! You're such hypocrites! And now we're going to the last...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u496	No, Mr. Georgiadis, we're not going. You're talking thirty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u497	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u498	Excuse me, we said you'd talk for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u499	He defends himself, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u500	As you can see, we have a procedure that has not been observed. I'm not going to law school. That's what other better people will do to me. We have half the Ministerial Council that has announced it, while the witnesses are supposed to be under anonymity, so that nothing will leak. Be careful how the construction was set up now. I'll tell you the names, so you know them. The main person of the construction, of course, is the Prime Minister himself. There's no doubt about it. No Papagelopoulos can do this without the Prime Minister's approval. What's the mechanism? The first and largest is Ms Papaspyrou, the Secretary-General for Public Administration. Mrs. Papaspyrou is, says, Mr. Janakopoulos' second mother. That's her right. But when, Mr. Papaspyros, you have a public office, you have to respect it. I have to make a statement about the Minutes, which I dedicate to the memory of this little girl, Melina, four years old, who died in Crete. Father goes out every two months and makes statements. And he says, "Tell me why my child, who was four years old, died." [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents a report on the Minutes with the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In the drawers of Ms Papaspyrou and the NAP, on her mandate, the findings issued a year ago about how she died, and Mrs Polakis was responsible. The father took it to see how his child died! It's from you that's covered!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u501	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u502	Please, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u503	She died a four-year-old child and instead of throwing light on the case, you allow her. Papaspyrous and Mr. Polakis to cover up death and come to the House and speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u504	Mr Georgiadis, please, I think that the patience of the Bureau has now been exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u505	So, Papaspyrou, Papagelopoulos and Tsipras have set up this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u506	Mr. Georgiadis, I'll interrupt you. I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u507	After Mr Papaggiopoulou's public admission that he was actually talking to Mrs Toulopakis on the phone during the process, I demand that the Minister of Justice open Mr. Papaggiopoulou's phones, see how many times she spoke to Mrs. Toulopakis and invite her to Parliament to tell us what they were saying on the phone. Then the House will judge whether these are criminal offences or not. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please vote "NAI" in pre-examination as well as in infidelity, because I want to go to court and be tried. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u508	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-three students and students and two teachers of the General School from Abdera Xanthis. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u510	Here, Mr. Papagelopoulos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u511	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Georgiadis continues to falsify and cut my words. I show great tolerance to him because, as I said, I respect the presumption of innocence and why my spirit requires me to be held back. I'll just say two words. Looking in the Minutes for me to admit that I was speaking with Mrs Toulupakis. All I have said is that I will propose or recommend that a committee of inquiry be set up and that my phones be opened and that I have not done anything illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u512	Were you talking or weren't you talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u513	Please, be quiet. Let the Minister answer what he wants to say. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u514	I think I can finish. That makes a huge difference. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I also said to open my phones if they open up some others. If that's an admission of illegality...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u515	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u516	Mr President, just a second. He also said Mr Georgiadis that I had a partial briefing without completing my sentence. I said that I was briefly informed by the Minister responsible and said from what article of the Constitution. First of all, it's not forbidden from anywhere. Secondly, the litigation to the Minister of Justice goes open. The law provides for the Minister for Justice to pass through. Previous Justice Ministers - I will not mention their name -....
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u517	What do we hear from the prosecutor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u518	Mr. Voridis, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u519	Come on, Minister, you're short. Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u520	You're trying to sneeze me, but you won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u521	I barely did!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u522	Previous Minister for Justice - I will not mention his name, because he will ask for the floor on staff and we will throw the ball back on the platform, not to talk about the substance - he kept the case-file for three months, he studied it, expressed a legal opinion - which he did not have the right - and returned it to the public prosecutor, saying that he was badly sent to the House and, of course, the prosecutor answered it properly, taking possession of it. These to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u523	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u524	I won't keep watching Mr. Georgiadis' show. The show is only for television. In the House, I don't participate in a show.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u525	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u526	There's no staff, Mr. Georgiadis. Please. Please. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u527	We're used to it. One thing I will say as a comment from the impressive and all that is said. 'Title of honour' says also Mr Georgiadis and the SYRIZA Government, 'that we have lowered health expenditure'. Let the worker and the Greek people think about the consequences this policy has had and is regarded as a title of honor. I don't have to say evidence. Every worker knows how much he pays, how much he pays, in what state he is in hospitals, not now, not that he was well before, in what situation the Greek people are all in terms of health and medicine. And just that a piece stops the treatment at risk of dying shows what you stand for, what a system you defend, and that's the essence. As far as the debate is concerned, it is a repetition of the same scene. We've lived this for years, we oldest live. Others lived through the TVs. It appears in both our country and the entire capitalist world. It is called a debate on scandals, accompanied by heavy expressions, statements used by parties - pillars of the system itself and using them whether they are in the government or in the opposition. In fact, they all say the same thing, such as'surprise, 'NOVARTIS' scandal. But where do you live? In another world? Awesome! We have a NOVARTIS scandal and the largest one. Every time one appears, it's the biggest! SIEMENS was the biggest scandal. Really, for the SYRIZA Government, where is the agreement with SIEMENS, which you considered to be disastrous, damaging, unacceptable, washing out, doing, making? Are you applying it to an antenna - yes or no? - to the extent that the 'SIEMENS' in this agreement has not even fulfilled its obligations? As far as armaments are concerned, another scandal! The biggest scandal! "NOVARTIS" now! And you all swear when you are in government - or those who make this intervention - 'Everything in light'! But, well, that hypocrisy! You don't know? You don't have experience from Greece and globally? Don't you know how the system works? Do you not know all the demonic and all the constructions that have been made at national and global level, so that at best one can be found to be a ‘sheet’ for the system? Then why are you all fooling the world? Why are you saying everything will come to light? Why are you saying that the knife will reach the bone? Why are you saying that the whole complication will be revealed? Tell us a case in Greece and globally, one, to have it moving! None! You don't know that? You are literally making fun of the world for certain reasons. What's proving? It turns out that beyond the scandals and why - and I will say below - other purposes are in place. It is also a valve of evacuation for the Greek people - but, you know, it has now got used to and does not believe anyone - and disorientation from basic problems and, of course, other political games. What does not pass through all this conversation and these vows? There's an unbaptised one. What's the unbaptised? It's the capitalist system itself. We have heard no talk but that construction - Mr Paradoxopoulos is not here - that capitalism has changed. He made a great decision in 2000, as if he was a saint before. Nothing about the capitalist system itself. That's in the abattoir. So what do we say and what do others say? Can scandals be dealt with by judicial means and by clearance? So who are you laughing at? Are you working with us, and we and all the Greek people, that you're going to be cleaning up? So what are you gonna do? Will you tear down the multinationals? Are you going to set them up? Are you going to make healthy competition? What are you talking about? Where are these based? Are they really based? Where is he? Tell us a country where the most infamous cleansing took place. The clean hands you saw where they led. So they can't be dealt with by the judicial way. There are one, two exceptions that come out in all capitalist countries, which strengthen the rule. Why can’t they be handled? Why is that impossible? It's impossible because it's inherent with the capitalist system itself. It is the operation of the very capitalist development path of capitalism, itself. For what? Are the reasons moral? Oh, no. What is the incentive to produce the medicine and to protect human life within capitalism? Are human needs, people's needs, or is it the hunt of capitalist profit? Why do the capitalists make drugs? Let's talk simpler. Why? To offer social work? Who believes that? They're sloppy, there's unstoppable money. That's why they're doing it to make a profit. So the more the motive of production is profit, that is, capitalism, the more it will be ruthless in the methods they use to obtain a greater profit, much more when there is also tough competition between large monopolies. So when everything's a merchandise, that's what you got. We say that the system is ruthless and that there is no healthy competition. Well, don't you all know anything? Don't you know what's going on? Are they sold and purchased human organs, yes or no? Who's doing this? The worker? The people? Behind this are huge, topical, where others go to Switzerland and other developed countries. The Pakistani is selling his kidney to make money, yes or no? The barbarity of the system at its top! People become experimental without knowing it. There is an article - and not 'RIZOPASTI', but 'PONTIKI', I will say, it does not matter - which contains research by a university student who says how they are used without knowing about it, and how many thousands of people have died like animals in India in Bangladesh, in other countries. Is this happening or not? There are other companies. 'MONSANTO', the big company, where did it try 'Portugal Factor'? In Vietnam. He destroyed whole areas. Are there monsters today, yes or no? Why did he do it? To show efficiency in the fight against some weeds and, of course, to break the Vietnamese morale. But he's runnin'. He couldn't beat them. Don't you know that? The system is ruthless, particularly in this area, as is many others. And so concentrates wealth, 1% of the world's population, 90% of world GDP. That is what you support, ladies and gentlemen of the parties that support capitalism. So what is the NOVARTIS scandal? Isn't that all the big companies and monopolies? Where's he going to do it? Because noVARTIS's coming out now? What are the others doing? Are they doing healthy competition? What do you think? They don't use the same methods and worse, yes or no? It's a regular, everyday work of all that. You don't know that? And why don't you say it? Why don't you go out here and say that, yes, that's what monopolies do in all areas? So why don't you both say it, and SYRIZA and New Democracy and all the parties supporting capitalism? Because they serve the same strategy. Because they consider that society's driving force is the capitalist, it's the property, the individual property in the means of production, which does not hesitate to do all of this. In this conversation. Some phosphites on social media - here we have not heard it yet - accuse us of loading everything on capitalism. We fully accept the accusation. Of course we put them in capitalism. Of course, this inhumane system is responsible and that is how it works. Of course, it also trades human life. Sure. We accept that. In fact, we say that it is precisely because it has rotted because it is over, it is necessary to overturn it objectively, because it has matured all the preconditions for society to go through to another form of organization, where it will move in the direction of meeting human needs and not capitalist profit. At the same time, we are always interested in any person involved, and if they are involved in getting on the surface and being punished. Mostly we are interested, through such procedures, in understanding how the whole system works. Why are three prisons in the end, or will they change the next day? Is it going to be transformed? Of course not. What does SYRIZA do in particular, in addition to other political objectives described, based or not, which do not matter? It creates the people the illusion of honest capitalism, the resolution of the system. I hear here, Chairman of the committee, clearance. What do you think? Are you going to clear up the capitalist system?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u528	We didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u529	I heard it, clearance. You're talking about most of them. You make the impression by mocking the workers, as you did before - take the Minutes and read it - for the rule of law. Did you say that? What rule of law? It is a classic carabinato, and it serves the interests of what we have said before. So what do you think? You say 'we will put laws on healthy competition'. Are you serious? Is there healthy competition in capitalism? Your death my life. The big fish eat the little one, and they all eat the workers together. This is the law of capitalism, they eat the sweat of the workers. In fact, here we have arrived at the repetition that says: The crisis came because of corruption, George Papandreou. Do you remember that? When he said "money is there" and everything, what did he say? Greece arrived here and in the Memorandum due to corruption. And much more some are very provocative. I was listening to Mr. Tsironi on the radio saying that Greece is in this field a champion. Oh, well. Are you serious? The fact that the Germans pay everywhere isn't corruption? The British, the French, the Americans and so on don't everybody pay? Is this Greece's idiom? Really? Are you serious - and you want to be left-wing - that the crisis in Greece has come from corruption and remula? Are you kidding us? All over the capitalist world, the crisis and the remula were the causes? That's what you're saying. That's why the memos came, he says. Because so many billions here, so many billions there, so billions there. And not the need for the capitalist system itself to go through the collapse of workers' rights, and so on, that is what we have been saying for so long. You're acquitting the capitalist system yourself. In fact, you're not just acquitting it. You examine the system itself that you can serve it very well, misleading the people that you can do it morally. The exploiter doesn't become moral. He's immoral of his own nature, because he's taking advantage of someone else's work. I'm saying it's simple. Below. So what do you think? You say that "we'll get all this out in the light, we'll change the landscape" and, indeed, you'll come to a point to justify the memoranda of lowering the medical expense. A lot of dust is lifted on the subject of reduction or not. Pharmaceutical expenditure can be increased to meet people's needs. There is a need to increase the pharmaceutical expenditure today, not to reduce it and cut it down. So you have arrived and come to justify the memorial tombs of curse. What are the memos? The measures taken in all capitalist countries are concentrated. You justify them and you are proud of the reduction in the cost of medicine. How do the scandals come out? Let's see another side. How do they get out? They come out of the clashes between mathematics. Yes or no? Who came out straight? What government stood up and said "there is a matter in this and we can take it out". How did this get out here? The FBI. Hey, we're here! The FBI, an international humanitarian organization that is interested in the good of humanity and that workers pay expensive drugs. What are you talking about? It was a conflict of interest. Where did these conflicts end up and the American system, which has now recently been in love, as before? Where did they end up with ‘SIEMENS’? What do the Americans say? "He paid 300, 400, 500, 1 billion and we're done and I don't care." Did you see anyone go to jail? Has ‘SIEMENS’ closed without opening no no nostrils? It's closed. What did he do? They do it to get money and serve the interests of their own companies. So what do we say? As long as health, education and, above all, labour force is a commodity, as long as this system exists, scandals are inevitable and are intertwined with the functioning of the system itself. If it is not overthrown - and it must be overthrown - this system, the incredible potential of humanity, because the system has rotted, leads to a setback rather than progress. Capitalism, ever since it was established, has become reactionary. Today he's at his worst stage. There are all possibilities. Everywhere. You do not dare say here 'to build a national pharmaceutical industry'. Will you fix? Is Mom leaving you? Oh, no. Who's Mom? The European Union and the capitalist system. If you want, cut off from the public investment programme, make a decision that, in order to deal with all this medicine, which is well known who defines it, and people's health, we will build a national industry, a state. Do it, let's go! Do you dare? The European Union is hitting you at 300 million fines. The god you worship is capitalism itself. Finally, for the pre-inquiry. We want to clarify a matter. All these legalities matter. What's the point? We have said that it will be done, under certain conditions. What are the conditions? That he's gonna go all the way. What has been done with Papantoniou and which predestinates such a development is a raw mockery against the Greek people. What do we say? Regardless of laws and scriptures, the parliament, which is the highest body, will decide, invite everyone, the witnesses will come to testify by name. I'll make a little comment. Others will be called. If others are found, we will come to the House to investigate, without delusion, we have a small basket, until the end. If we play the same theatre again, we tell you from the Step here - Mr. Dritsa, I do not know if you will be President - we will not be involved in such a mockery, namely that we have packed it up and we are turning it back to justice. To be explained. That'll show and what the targeting is. Despite the fact that the large questions in the case-file - and I have said 'I have heard' - I am told 'I am also told 'yes' - we say 'yes' that everyone should go to look at them. Nobody's guilty. Finally, we have the following game: 'protected witnesses'. It is the law passed in 2001. Who voted for him? The New Democracy. Yes or no? They say when you dig each other's pit, you fall yourself in.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u530	The PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u531	Didn't New Democracy agree? He agreed. He was a terrorist and dogs tied up, just like you are now. You'll hear them now. What does New Democracy raise? Don't there are any protected witnesses? Say it here. But you can't say it. What do you think? 'The procedure', 'the procedure', 'the other'. So you accept the protected witnesses. What did SYRIZA say then? The coalition left the House. In fact - it says - on such top political issues you have the top political reaction, which is leaving Parliament. They asked some questions - Kouvelis was talking at that time - and they raised some very important issues: what will happen on one occasion and what will happen on the other? Today, the terms are reversed and you are defending these witnesses. Well, not like that! The hoods and anonymous witnesses today play this role. They'll come and testify first. To take over your state to protect them. Why, so he can't do that? Or the secret services don't know them? Do they know them or not? Do the Americans know them? Do they know them or not? Can they organize murders and whatever you want? Yes or no? Who are you kidding? No games, then. The JRC will do everything it can, as it has always done, so that a part of the truth can be revealed and the Greek people understand exactly what is happening and what is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u532	The Deputy Minister for Health will be followed by Mr Polakis. After Mr. Polakis, Mr. Javaras will speak. We're going to go a Minister or a Member to get rid of the list. Immediately after Mr. Javarra, Mr. Salmas will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u533	But it was my turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u534	If Mr. Javarras gives you the floor, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u535	For us it's the meeting today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u536	Yes, it is also for Members who have also been written for parliamentarians. We need to set up a series, because as the time goes, the speakers remain behind. Five Members have remained on the list. If you want Mr. Paulakis to take the floor, there is no question, and after you Mr. Javaras will speak. As you think. Come on, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u537	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact these days, because I've been around a lot of cafeterias and squares, etc., I hear three words. First, "Will anyone go to jail?"? Secondly, "Do you have any evidence? Do not step back.’ Thirdly, 'Be careful'. These three words I hear. That's what everyone hears. They know very well that the Greek people have realised that for the first time there is a government that does not give political coverage to a thing that the world has a drum and we have a secret pride. What's to say first? Today, what we are talking about is the top of one of the three icebergs on which the country was impacting and sinking. From 1991 to 2010 EUR 260 billion in the health sector was allocated to our country. Of these about EUR 160 billion was public expenditure - state budget and insurance funds - and about EUR 100 billion was private spending. With the most moderate calculations, made by the National School of Public Health and various scientists in the area, 30% of public spending and 40% of private expenditure of these 260 billion are black money overprices, medicines, materials, reagents, illegal fees, EUR 85 billion. Add the 150 equipment, the 100 public works - Olympic Games before and after - and you will get off the 340 billion debts that went bankrupt in 2010. And some dare to talk about building, and they'll sue. Well, I suggest you sue another five, six. First, you must sue, those who have so far sued, the MPs who in 2011 in this Chamber put a timely question to the then Minister of Health, using expressions used by the Left and the gangsters, for piranhas, for complaints about mismanagement and the destruction of public money, that - I will read this part - "the window of waste and overpricing was opened in 2001 when some types of supplies were foreseen to be considered to be incomparable with each other even if it is the same category." From a political decision everything was started and organized. Nothing falls out of the sky. And the honourable Members conclude - I say you can sue them too - by asking the Minister how and who have for many years guaranteed the collective blindness of all those responsible for the relevant markets, and by multiplying the actual costs of the purchasers. And he says a lot more. Who's asking her? Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Bakoyannis Theodora, Markoyannakis Christos, Kiltides Konstantinos, Konkoyannis Georgios, Ausgeakis Eleftherios. Suppose someone who was the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Salmas, who on 26-5-2014 - I am not saying it, I am not saying it, but Xanthos does not say it, Kourublis does not say it - says that Mr.Georgiadis said that he uploaded the price to two hundred and sixty-five drugs, put in, without any criteria, another hundred drugs, and that everything he says about the expenditure is bullshit, because "I took the expenditure down as much as he went down" and puts it every month, how much it was on his duty and how much it was on Mr.Georgiadis, which shows that it is the same - it has not been reduced at all by what Mr.Georgiadis seems. In fact, it says that with what he did, with the difference of insurance and a mentioned price, he actually charged the entire difference to the patients, increasing at least EUR 200 million the patient's participation in medicines and then receiving a reduction. And sue Mr. Salma. Let's go to the point, because I don't think there's any need for any more words of practicing. They answered. The NOVARTIS scandal - and in general the pharmaceutical industries - is global but has a particular Greek aspect, because our country through international agreements as a country of average development of capitalism with this GDP, etc. It was a reference price, i.e. they were receiving a price from us, in the first phase of twenty-nine countries and another fifty countries in the next phase. That is markets like Brazil, India, Russia and other multiples of ours. So a high price here was translated into a high reference value in too many other countries. And what did the pharmaceuticals and NOVARTIS do, which from one point to the next was the protagonist, the conductor in this orchestra? They invoiced their new medicines to three expensive European countries, with an uplifted standard of living, with industries of their own that wanted higher prices, because that is how they increased their profits, such as Germany, England, Switzerland, and the third or fourth country that came to be invoiced was ours. We ate a decade's lie that we get the three cheapest prices in Europe. Courgettes with the oregano! We were the fourth or fifth country to be invoiced, especially when the invoicing was at the Ministry of Trade and Development, which is a huge black hole all this time. There are no records, they've been lost, they've been destroyed, how they were invoiced and where they draw prices. The companies brought prices here, "so we invoiced, take off the average," and then the other countries also received prices. This was the first criminal of the particular Greek aspect and some were ruling over these years and they were not the Left and the ANELs. It was the PASOK and the New Democracy, those who organized this thing, because it all comes from the political decision. Second crime bigger: We are the only country of developed Western capitalism in which our insurance funds have never been negotiated by 2016 when we did so with Blonde, honoring pharmaceutical companies. A medicinal product that received a reference price of EUR 100 in Germany was not paid by the German EOPY or the German ICA of EUR 100. He was negotiating and said: "I will buy you the majority of the quantity you're going to sell, 95% - 98%. So give me a discount." And he got a 40% discount, 50% and 60% discount. We here for too many years, until 2010, were paying, if it was a non-participation medicine, the total price indicated. If he had 5% or 10% participation, we would pay 90 euros. This is a huge crime against the country. Thus, pharmaceuticals, through these prices and these compensations from the insurance funds and hospital rates respectively, were able to corrupt and extract wider layers of health potential to produce such a prescription. Because if he had a price of EUR 40 instead of a 100 that he would pay, he would not have been able to diffuse it into the administrative mechanism or medical capacity in order to increase over-registration. That's how this thing was set up and I talked about the period from 2004 to 2009 when the expenditure went off. Then - look at what I'm going to say is the real thing, because things have been heard, which are lies, because half the truth is worse than the whole lie - 'NOVARTIS' in 2006 had pan-Hellenic turnover everywhere, in the public and private sectors, public and private spending, EUR 341 million. In 2009 he had 596. Did the vaccine story and the story of molecular blood control contribute to this increase? So this company suddenly strengthened when we ordered vaccines to cover the entire African continent? Or when we ordered diagnostic tests and, while Poland paid them 7 and 8 euros, did we start paying 60 and 80 euros a month? This was from 2006 to 2009 and is 'NOVARTIS' behind them. It is not just NOVARTIS. And 'ROCHE' is other companies, but basically these. So he set this story up, with a political organization on top. Doctors don't take it from monks, the administrative staff don't take it from monks. It allows for a political decision setting the price and the framework for diffusing the fragmentation of the Greek society. And that's what you did then. That's what you did. The social contract that bankrupt the country was that you said: "I do not reward you with wages for what you do, but I allow you to take part in the overpricing of material, medicine, reagent as a mistress." So we went bankrupt. And you come out and you're playin', like you're dealing with people from the jungle of Africa, and you say, "After we've reduced it. So what are you accusing us of?" Nothing's reduced. You have carried the increase in expenditure, first of all, in the participation of patients.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u538	On the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u539	We'll go to that particular matter, too. Secondly, with the ministerial decisions you made, in the way you did, you did not even hurt half the hair of the mechanism that produced overpriced. You didn't hurt half the hair in both medicines and the rest of the sanitary material. And I'll explain it specifically. They continued to come here and get honor with the three countries and be the fourth or fifth country. You've made a series of laws that I'm going to say after and basically shared the pie and protected some of it from falling down on public spending pie. That's what you did, and I'll prove it by numbers. And all that I have said before is air unscrupulous. Even at the same time, because you did it horizontally and the mechanism had learned otherwise, it had been trained in the previous social contract, it was started missing drugs from cancer patients. They didn't have gauze and syringes in hospitals. We were told by Mr Pikrammenos before, that is why I laughed, because at that time we were told: 'No, we were fine, now you did it'. Now that we have set them up and there is no such issue in this. At the same time as this was done in certain specific companies, at certain specific costs, public spending was extinct. EEAY had no medicine for some, because it had become the horizontal blade, but the 11 million and 13 million of swabs and colostrums became 53 and 48 in the Memorandum Period. At the same time as hospitals were missing basic materials, there were still overpriced with a few expensive materials, or the cost of construction workshops, which we have so far been thrown away from seventy - twenty - five hospitals in the country. That's what you've done. You've taken care of the best friends and the big companies. And we're going to the numbers. Mr President, I would like to thank you in advance for the tolerance because some things need to be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u540	Minister, tolerance also has limits. Please hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u541	I'll try it. Well, 2006 ‘NOVARTIS’ total sales everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u542	What everywhere? What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u543	It means public, private expenditure, it means private payment, it means tariff cut in the country 'NOVARTIS', total expenditure. From 3,41% in 2006, 596 million in 2009. 2012 is made 524 million. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, EUR 473 million remains. It drops in 2016 to 436 million. That's the real evidence. How can it be, while half of this expenditure has been cut here so badly? Let's go more specifically. In 2012, the cost of pharmacy paid by the EEA or the insurance funds, ‘NOVARTIS’ 157 million. In 2013, "NOVARTIS" 150 million, drop 4,40%. Second company PFIZER 143 million in 2012, 123 million in 2013, 13.7% fall. The third company, ASTRAZENECA, from 131 million to 118 million, is a 10% fall. Let's go to 2013-2014. 'NOVARTIS' from 150 million - we are talking about private pharmacies paid by EOPY - 'NOVARTIS' 145 million, a fall - 3.1%. "ASTRAZENCA" 82 million from 118 million, 30% fall. "PFIZER" from 123 million 78 million, 36% falling. It's random. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u544	Minister, you've already reached sixteen minutes. Please step up a little bit to complete. There are several other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u545	We are now going to an extremely important thing, which has to do with spending the pharmacy of the EEA, high-cost medicines, what was given to special categories of patients, expensive medicines in 2013 by the EEA Pharmacies. Watch out, in that year, NOVARTIS sold 130 million euros. The tariffs he cut were EUR 130 million. "ROCHE" was EUR 81 million, a market share of 18.38%, because there was something 7% and something "blocks". 'ABB VIE' 51 million, 'MERCK' 50 million, 'AMGEN' 49 million, 'PFIZER' 48 million. What did these companies put into their pocket? And for debts in previous years. But if I sell goods this year 130 and put them in my pocket and my competitor who sold less and took half, I'm privileged. Because companies are going bankrupt or developed not from accounting profits or generally what they owe but from what they have in the fund. So 'NOVARTIS' sells 130, 411 and takes 130, 830. Lucky? In 2013. 'ROCHE' sells 81 and takes 76. She's fine, too. ABB VIE sells 50 and takes 14 expensive drugs as well. "MERCK" sells 50 and takes 28. PFIZER sells 48 and takes over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u546	Minister, you don't have to read them. Say two three clues you want and testify...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u547	So that proves the paintings...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u548	Minister, can you hear me? If you want the information you have on the list you read, put it in the Minutes to get the House to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u549	Yeah, I'll testify. Now let's go to why he says 65...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u550	And please, you have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u551	So he says Mr Georgiadis "but where did you get the 65?" If you sum up the payments from the month that took place until December, it takes 64,800. So that's how he gets the 130 million in cash when he sold 130 merchandise. And before Mr Georgiadis had taken 65 more with a large sum of 49 million euros in March and 15,22. We're going a little further.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u552	No, Mr. Polakis, we're not moving forward. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u553	I need two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u554	You've spoken enough. Mr. Xanthos will also speak. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u555	Watch me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u556	Anything you have to read and communicate to the House, give it to the Minutes to be distributed to all Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u557	I'll testify. I'll say it very quickly, a little tolerant because it's very important. Some things have been heard that need to be answered in concrete terms. Can you tell me why you changed by the good morning you took, the way and the arrangement that the drugs were on the positive list? To you, with the regulation of Mr Loverdos, it had to be compensated for in two-thirds of the countries of the European Union and not less than twelve. With you, with a wicked provision that you passed in September and got it back in April - having completed the Harvard Project - you said to get an insurance price, get the positive amount paid by the EEAY, if it is compensated to two-thirds of the circulating countries. So he's going to be out in three countries? Is it compensated in two? He's on our positive list. You did this. And it has a clear relationship with Harvard Project and the ten drugs, Exelon Tts, Seebri, Bex Serro, Takavi, Votubia, Signifor, Tobi Podhaler, Omnitrope, Omnitrope, Optaflu, Fluad, which are the drugs described in the company's plan in March 2013 that it should have been implemented within 10 months, to have been inclined to get honor. And at the time when you were Minister, all this went in, and even four of them entered two countries, they had no other prices.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u558	And here we close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u559	We're moving on to one last.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u560	You're gonna make me turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u561	You never made a negotiation committee. You formed it - the old law provided it - and it did not meet once. Lucky? Why? Because the operating rule didn't come out. Last decision just before you go, for which Mr Vorides corrected you. You abolished the provision of the special wholesale price, so you increased theoretically - you signed it a few days before you left - to sell high-cost medicines and not to pharmacies at the specific wholesale price that was low, but at a wholesale price plus 16% profit, i.e. you raised 11 million euros. So these are the 65 million that the EEAS' services have told you that the expenditure will rise if you do that. That's 65 million more. Another 65 million that you gave bananas and another 65 million that went to work with. But Mr Vorides understood it and in August he changed it, putting it in a horizontal rebate. With regard to another ministerial decision that you made concerning Lucentis, there is a very touching effect on this macular hernia medicine, for some patients who were out - when another form came, you in the price sheet you signed, practically, allowed with a wicked provision that entered, instead of the price of the new packaging, based on the milligrams to go proportionally, i.e. get a price of EUR 509...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u562	Mr. Polakis, this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u563	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u564	No, you don't have a half a minute. I'll turn off your microphone, Mr. Polakis. Please. You've been talking for twenty-three minutes already, of the ten that you've had up to time. How much tolerance can the Bureau show?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u565	Let it be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u566	No more. This is where your intervention is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u567	It's a drug that made a turnover of 25 million and 30 million euros a year. Instead of getting a price of EUR 509, which the EOF Committee said, which finally recommended to you by means of a provision that said 'outside the eye and can go with three prices', it received a price of EUR 780, i.e. a third above. In other words, from the 25 million of the annual turnover, one third was this revaluation. And then, that's what we had to go for, and that's why they didn't come down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u568	Here you are, Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u569	I have to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u570	There's nothing else. Please turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u571	Do I have to make an intrusion? We'll make it to the end, because we don't owe anyone. We know the space.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u572	You convinced us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u573	It's okay. There are other things I can say in particular. We'll be there by the end of the day. There's no conciliation field. For the first time this thing is happening in this country, and that is why some have been terrified. And they've been so terrified, they're trying to run into a girl's death to hurt those who think they're being chased. I've saved thousands of people in my life. I know very well what human pain and death means. And it's shameful, disgraceful and merciful to use this thing to hurt what I'm saying. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If one finds one who says that in this case I raised the phone to say that or that, I will resign the next moment from a Member of Parliament and Minister. Like one has not been found anywhere to say that we raised the phone and with a dozen and a half thousand assignments we have said take him, take him, drop him. We don't like you. We're not gonna look like you. You've come in and you'll come in after that story in the time of history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u574	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u575	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u576	May I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u577	Okay, please, but just explain why you're asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u578	On staff, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u579	Explain to the Bureau. I would ask you, however, to be brief and not to have any personal tops of what you have to say. Do not refer to names. It is already a long list, many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u580	Please, Mr President, time is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u581	You'll have him a minute. Why are you worried? I don't understand. Will you tell me if I'll talk and how much?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u582	I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u583	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u584	First of all, let's put them in a row. I repeat that the indictment you have in your hands says that I took the 2 million on September 30th. On September 30, says the witness in her last statement, that Mr. Guardis came to my office half an hour earlier to give me the suitcase, "as I said before." Mr Paulakis just gave up the millions by December. According to the logic, Polakis, i.e. I took the money in advance before "NOVARTIS".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u585	They are also described.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u586	Watch out for the best. NOVARTIS has 130 million fixed turnover a year. In 2013, Minister, he received 130 million - I have tabled it - another 130 million in 2014. In 2015 she took 120 million - apparently because of a referendum, her turnover fell - and 138 million in 2016 and in 2017 she goes to 145 million. So on my own days, NoVARTIS has not taken a single euro more on an annual basis. And by the day I was supposed to have taken the money from June to September, the least money in the last five years, or 19 million. I give you the analog table too, because it mentioned the companies. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to Lucentis - because this debate has been heard and re-examined - his price came out in October 2014 on my successor, Mr Vorides, and not on me. Secondly, Mrs Makridakis - which you now have President of the EOF - has recommended this price for Lucentis within the committee. Thirdly, after you have said the same thing to Parliament, you have made a price report - listen, listen! - not at the price that Mr. Paulakis has told you now, but at the price we had. In other words, we 'bad' increased the price of 'NOVARTIS', but you 'good' kept the same price in Lucentis. These do not stand for any discussion. So I'm closing, Mr. President. Are you burialing me for wanting you, Paulie? You'll dream of putting me in jail. I'll put you on, though. You know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u587	Mr. Georgiadis, don't trigger the conversation. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u588	Because you've given Mr. Gianakulopoulos 8 million without any contract from the ERIC. And if Mrs Papaspyrou has any tick, she will send auditors to the CEDEFOP tomorrow to check - as she goes out to the channels and says that the institution of the Civil Service Secretary should not be affected - on the basis of what legal framework you have given this company 8 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u589	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u590	And do not think of voting again, as you did last summer, Mr Lappa. Because now it's gonna be photographic and go to court. So I call on Mrs Papaspyrou to send auditors to the CDC tomorrow. I'm gonna file a petition, move any prosecutors, and that's where we'll talk about who's given and what.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u591	Good, Mr. Georgiadis. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u592	And with regard to little Melina, obviously, Mr President, it is symptomatic that the ERIC has come up extremely prejudicial for Nectaria Polakis since 2016 and has been closed in drawers after three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u593	Please, Mr. Georgiadis now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u594	It's obviously a symptom that's your relative, Minister! You have nothing to do with this cover. But here, we are talking about a four-year-old child and a father who goes out every three months and says, "Tell me why my child died." Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u595	Mr. Salmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u596	Mr President, let me reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u597	I'm sorry, there's four more of them out of ten. There are Parliamentary Representatives. What happens now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u598	I have to answer that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u599	Let Mr. Salmas speak and you'll answer if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u600	No, now I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u601	Obviously for the last one that's also the staff. Is that why you want to? Mr. Polakis, please be brief. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u602	The evidence I mentioned is the real thing. Everything else is fascinating. Lucentis' theme since it was invoiced in this way had to continue to be invoiced in this way. The way he took a third increase in the price above what the FDA committee proposed...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u603	It was Mrs. Macridakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u604	It couldn't have been Mrs. Macridakis. Don't say what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u605	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u606	The FOF sent you a newsletter - which is there - and it says about 509 euros. And you chose the other with the arrangement that you went through by ministerial decision. And this is a specific photographic arrangement for a medicine that makes a turnover of 25 million and 30 million euros a year. As for Copalia - which I forgot to say - with the increase you made in your term of office, from EUR 18 million per year to EUR 22 million per year, costs EUR 4 million more than that. From there, I turn the mud. We're not the same and we'll never be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u607	Good, Minister. Mr. Salma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u608	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been here in these seats for the last eighteen years serving the representative parliamentary democracy of the country. The course was difficult. The starting point is not favourable, as for many of you, through adversities that have been struggling against them with struggle and perseverance, with a comprehension that I have earned to the citizens of Itolo-Carnania who have chosen me for two decades first MP. Every time I got up to this step, I had a reason. This is the first time that I really have absolutely no reason, except to seize the opportunity to recall my work during my term of office at the Ministry of Health. I have absolutely no reason why I am the only one from whom the Greek state, the Greek justice and the Greek people learned that the company "NOVARTIS" has used unfair practices for many years in our country. And I'm the only one who, with the findings I've ordered, and to whom these practices are captured, triggered the start of judicial investigation in our country. Unfair practices at the level of doctors and administration officials involved in the policy of medicine and not at the level of civilian personnel. I had never imagined when I decided to reveal the practices of the company "NOVARTIS" the management that would have been the subject of this. And much more I didn't think I'd get to apologize. I would not remind you of the words of late Karamanlis that we have become a country in an endless madhouse, but I will be patient to shine the truth. I would argue that I have made many enemies and powerful in the fight against corruption in the drug field, where the most important businesses worldwide are even larger than the war industry. But if I am part of the solution to the problem, as I will try to highlight with the information I will quote, not part of the problem, then I ask that the Greek citizens stay next to me until the end and stand and trust me. I will not be tempted to counter the vagueness and imprint of the rumours as they arise from the testimonies. Because what is specific to me from the witness testimonies here and resulting from some of the witnesses' statements to the US authorities is - and I quote - "NOVARTIS" was not happy with my service decisions and was trying to circumvent me, that the company was first in the way of such an obstacle and that they paid money to the media to fight me. This was also confirmed by the witness lawyer in America, who said Salmas was the number one target of the NOVARTIS company than he knows from the American file. In this sense, instead of contradicting rumours, let me say specific things. I will inform you colleagues, the Greek people, my voters, my friends, my patients, my relatives, my family about what I did for my country, what changed after my country's term of office. I'm sure you know that I did only good in Greece. I did not make any decision - while I made many decisions on the medicine, dozens - which damageed the state and the citizens, on the contrary, dozens that benefited. I didn't deceive. I wasn't bribed. I didn't compromise. I didn't hide. I wasn't scared. I didn't faint when I conflicted with the greatest interests. I didn't win friends. On the contrary, I lost friends. I spent solitude when we had to solve problems and diseases in the health system that for decades had been a feather of pillaging and corruption. Perhaps, I am one of the few doctors who, in the twenty-fifth year of my medicine, have not gone to date a trip paid by a pharmaceutical company. I took up my duties in June 2012, for one year, until June 2013. I have two main responsibilities: EEA and pharmaceutical policy. EOPYY was created six months ago and in eight days after I took over, he came under the exclusive responsibility of the Minister of Health. I received an agency with a spending budget of around EUR 7 billion and delivered it to EUR 5.5 billion. I received an agency with contractual obligations of 2.5 billion more than its revenue - i.e. deficit - with inability to pay to all providers. If you remember, I received the pharmacopoeia off on strikes, diagnostics with suspension of the execution of referrals, a body with a simplistic system. I delivered an agency, where it was paying in three months, with a deficit of 1.5 billion euros, open pharmacies. I delivered a modern accounting model! The accession process of the new funds to the EEA has been completed. All decisions concerning the transfer of personnel from the candidate funds were adopted. The transfer of the assets of all the participating funds has been completed. A full insurance record has been created. I have amended and streamlined the EEAS Procurement Regulation, which has so far not changed and entered my signature. This means that for the first time insurance values for exams were introduced different from those set out in the Observatory. The values of tens of diagnostic tests have been reduced. For the first time, a Committee on the Negotiation of Examinations and Drugs Prices was set up so that it can make price-volume agreements and buy cheaper services than the market, saving millions of euros for the Greek insured. The expenditure for clinical and rehabilitation centres before 2012 was at EUR 785 million, while in 2013 I delivered and since then it was close to 500 million. The expenditure in diagnostics before 2012 was 490 million and I delivered it to 320 million euros. In order to protect these limits, I established closed budgets and the excess amount returned by the clinics and diagnostic centers. The Diagnostic Centres on a daily basis started sending operations through a special application to the ‘e-FDI’ system, as it has so far been. The electronic reporting system ‘e-FOD’ and the system of submissions of medical expenses of insured European Union countries shall be established. The EPOS payments to providers shall be transparently defined. Never in one year of my term of office have I intervened with the two EEA Presidents with whom I worked - Buddour and Papageorgiopoulou - to pay priority for any company. It was, of course, not my responsibility to choose them, nor to appoint them, nor to stop them. Clear words. Now we're going to the medicine. Ladies and gentlemen, the cost of medicine is influenced by three factors: the price of the medicine, the number of boxes prescribed and the percentage of discounts, which is the price of insurance. In order to control the volume of prescriptions, measures were taken during my term of office to prescribe them. The electronic prescribing system had begun in Lover and Koutrumani and had already reached 50% of the recipes to be electronic when I took over. The e-prescription was extended to my term and without paying a single euro, he covered all the prescriptions and diagnostic examinations, in a single environment, after the two different ones were incorporated then ‘e-syntagografi’ and ‘e-diagnosis’ into a single accounting and software called ‘e-prescription’, which is still being used today. The ‘e-prescription’ has been linked to the ‘e-DAP’, so that the execution data of referrals - laboratory and diagnostic tests can be made available in real time, in the form that they are up to today. The computer systems of pharmacies were connected with e-syntagografisi.gr, to make the performance of recipes universally available. In order to provide accurate morbidity information in recipes, reliable data and statistical processors, registration of disease diagnosis based on ICD-10 was applied in the EEA recipes, which became mandatory from 21-6-2013, as currently applicable. In March 2013, the process of creating and sending information notes to pharmacists and doctors was automated. Information to inform doctors about their prescription activity and monthly prescription indices shall be provided in those records. I have established prescribing, based on the active substance, just as it has been until now. By Ministerial Decision of November 2012, the application of the prescription is mandatory on the basis of the active substance and the international name and now doctors are required to prescribe, without the trade name, which allowed trade with pharmaceutical undertakings. Measurements I took for the price of the medicine. I have introduced a new system of invoicing medicines that still applies to date, just as I have established it. Since October 2012, the prices of medicinal products are derived from the processing of reference prices by a group of civil servants established in the EOF, who first use the Commission's European reference prices base under the name Euripid, so that there is absolute transparency. But the biggest price reform I have done was the way that the original drugs of the multinational pharmaceuticals lose their price protection and fall automatically to 50% of their price. In the spring of 2012, before me, a Memorandum Law provided that the medicinal products ending their patent would fall to 50% of their price when they were under a patent. When I took over, I looked to find out when the patents expire. I contacted the Industrial Property Organisation and there was no database. I asked Task Force help, but they couldn't give me any. What did I do? By my ministerial decision of 2374/24-8-2012, I incorporated the European Community directive on the production and marketing of medicinal products for human use, which had not been implemented since 2001 and which was not asked for by the Troika, because I heard some who said the troika did all this well. There is therefore a legal basis for the end of a ten-year data protection period, which I could find and used for the first price sheet I issued instead of the end of the patent. Result? Total savings for EEAS, hospitals and insured, half a billion euros in one night. Hundreds of original medicines fell overnight at 50% of their price and half of their prices changed. At one night I was aiming at the headquarters of dozens of multinationals and I was glad to win so that pensions would not be cut and people would get cheap drugs. The patients now watching us remember that in October 2012 they all suddenly took their medications cheaper by far in one day. At this time, before and after this historic price bulletin, I accepted the most rabies war that was accepted by the Minister of Health by many who were in the company payroll. Perhaps the details of this dirty war are imprinted on the testimony of those who knew them on the other side of the Atlantic. Novartis Hellas' boasts 30% overnight. Alarm in Switzerland! A crazy Deputy Minister is changing everything. I address the correspondence - it is already in the case-file - of the CEO, Mr Hallaris, where I asked him on the basis of sales over the past three months to take the effect of the price card on some companies, including 'NOVARTIS'. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Salmas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A crazy Deputy Minister is changing everything. But, to God, this was not the case for NOVARTIS, they were made for all the companies, and that had no return, for those who doubt that I did so to beg me by the companies. That's what happened from me and never changed, at least from me. I don't know what happened next. In addition, with three words that I added to my ministerial decision on the market regulation increases are not arbitrary. Even the prices that were wrong in the previous bulletins were not uploaded. This resulted in some two hundred eighty-eight medicines invoiced below the average of the three cheapest prices. That is why Mr Kourublis, from the day he took over, has repeatedly stated that Salmas, in his honor, was keeping these drugs below where he should be. Why arbitrarily? Because I couldn't legislate, since the legislative initiative was the Minister. During my term of office, drug prices have been cut by 23%. In the above price sheet, the prices were reduced to seven thousand three hundred drug codes. Can I say it again? In one night, in seven thousand three hundred drug codes, the price fell. For decades the insurance funds have been buying the drugs at retail prices. This has resulted in a dispersal of public money. This stopped in 2013, following my ministerial decision of seven hundred pages issued under the Loverdus Act, which implements the positive list of medicines and determines insurance prices that the insurance funds now purchase. As a consequence, hundreds of millions of euros have been saved, as has been the case so far. The sharp drop in the prices of medicinal products in Greece has brought me to a standstill with another very serious problem. Pharmacopoeia, along with pharmacy, collected drugs and exported them to countries such as Germany, where their price was twice as high, to earn a lot more. This, however, ruined the pricing policy of the multinationals, because Germany's insurance system was buying medicines from parallel imports of 15% cheaper. Thus, the multinational pharmaceutical industry limited the quantities available in Greece and the lack of basic medicinal products was the result. This was used by the same pharmaceutical industry, so that with paid papers in the domestic and international press fighting me and showing me the Minister of Deficiency. I only picked two papers worth investigating how they were paid. I have my word for it. One is in "GUARDIAN" and the other in "CNN": Greece, a poor country, with shortages of drugs, a third-world country and - have interviews - how the Minister keeps prices low. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Salmas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To solve this problem, I made the following moves. I prohibited parallel exports of the incomplete drugs. It's not easy, because it's a legitimate intra-Community transaction, how are you gonna ban it? But I did. I fined eight multinational companies for insufficient supply. Create a database of the unit numbers shown in each box. There was never until then. I changed the authenticity tapes in the coupons, in the boxes, we made them watermarked and the unique number sticker, so it won't erase. So we could know where each box is. At the same time, the tests were intensified in pharmacopoeia and strict fines were imposed. I had just made another enemy in Greece a billion dollars. It has now been mandatory to delete the coupons in indelibly and to return to the EOF for the drugs that were exported. This has led to an end to the export of medicines and coupons being glued and charged to the insurance funds, as it has been decades ago, and now we are all surprised to say how we have come to have no pensions for Greeks. If the fund commanders did 20 years ago what Salmas did 20 years later, we wouldn't have arrived here. A characteristic example of this is that at a dinner in Athens in 2013 with the Greek Minister of Health of Albania, after all these changes, I was told that I was doing a good and evil in Albania. Surprised to hear that good was that I reduced prices, because Albania takes the average of Greece, Skopje and Italy. Surprised to hear the evil I made them. He said to me: 'You left us without drugs'. I asked him, "Why?" He answered, “Why did you do something in the coupons and in the movies and stopped coming to Albania from Epirus with trucks, which were sticking the coupons in fake recipes in the insurance funds. A major controversy with the pharmaceutical industry was the pressure on Greece to enter new medicines. In order to start the pricing procedures for innovative medicines, however, serious and scientific progress was required, despite the pressures from many publications. For this reason, the pricing policy of innovative medicines had to be systemized in the advanced countries, where innovation assessment committees operate. Until first, our country did not have such committees. Under my number 57066/11-6-2013, the committee finally took the flesh and bone, which would assess the original innovative medicines, which were applied for invoicing from 1-1-2011 to 31-1-2013. They would then be given to the EOF invoicing department, while at the same time notifying the Department of Medicines. The committee started processing thirty, forty innovative drugs. In my term of office, however, there was not a single company's new medicine, but the opposite would mean something negative. Of all the things I have said, the monthly pharmaceutical expenditure has been reduced to a monthly amount of EUR 100 million, that is from around EUR 285 million to EUR 190 million a month. I'm presenting for the record the monthly pharmacological cost. In green color, it's my political route. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Salmas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Samara government gave the expenditure to EUR 165 million a month, but unfortunately it went up. In order to protect this threshold we set, with two ministerial decisions in November 2012, I set a closed budget of EUR 2.880,000 for 2012 and EUR 2.440.000 for 2013. And I had achieved the target of 2013 since June - at EUR 190 million - from EUR 3.8 billion that was closed in 2011. And the excess amount was returned to the EPPY by the pharmaceutical industry. In other words, with the overall reforms mentioned above, the Ministry of Health actually came out of the memorandum and the overall savings in the EEAS and the drug reached 1.5 billion euros a year. That is, from 2013 until today, with my policies, the Greek public benefited from EUR 6 billion. Part of this savings I returned to the patients. So rheumatists from 25% of drug involvement had over 10%, so far. The kidney patients took all medicines free of charge, and the Mediterranean anemia patients even took the medicines associated with complications of the disease free of charge. Confectionarys took sugar measurement films free of charge. There's a lot more. But don't waste time. In my term of office, ladies and gentlemen, I have set as the primary objective the fight against corruption. In this context, I have identified, with my orders, illegal financing by the company "NOVARTIS" to public officials, i.e. doctors, pharmacists and employees involved in the policy of the medicine. These findings were the material of today's case-file both in the United States of America and in our country and they understood that we are no longer playing here. That is why the former president of the TFEU, the Greek Pharmaceutical Business Association, somewhere in the beginning of 2013, half my term, if I remember correctly, said: "We were invited at the party. The party's over." In order to avoid repeating similar phenomena in the future, however, a circular was drawn up in December 2012 by the EOF, posted on the website, describing the relationships of doctors, other bodies with pharmaceutical companies. The Association of Pharmaceutical Enterprises in Greece updates its code of conduct. Clinical studies were another indirect way of organising doctors. Following 18910/19-2-2013 Joint Ministerial Decision, the institutional framework for clinical studies in our country changed. Thereafter, transparent procedures are laid down and provision is made for hospitals to receive 10% and 15% and for health regions to be given more than the total cost of the study. All of these were reforms credited to the Samara - Venizelos Government, which assigned me this crucial post at the most critical moment in the country. It is therefore unfair instead of the reward to be in this debate today. Needless to say, all this was done with absolute transparency, purity and personal costs. I will mention that my "possibly" until 2014 - a year and a half after I left the Ministry - has been thoroughly reviewed by the audit committee "possibly" and the committee filed it on March 30, 2016, since it was not found at all, following a complaint anonymously, from what we in politics are used to. I didn't have any bills abroad and I don't have one. So everything is clear, perfect and clean. Ladies and gentlemen, I spent eighteen years in medicine. I graduated twenty-four years. In the twenty-eight, I was a doctor and at thirty years I was a surgeon - orthopaedic and the youngest lecturer at the Athens School of Medicine and already known as a doctor, since I was cared for by the National Barriage Team and many other teams of athletes and Olympians. Outside came Olympians to operate on them. For example, Georgi Asanitze, the Georgian Olympiacos who, after having operated him, took the gold medal from the Tower Dimas in Athens in 2004. Believe me, I didn't need to leave a brilliant career to see the anonymous witness in my jacket, at a meeting with a company that doesn't remember, something figurative. I didn't need the decade when the hate in orthopaedics fell cloud, I ran to the villages and volunteering. And yet, I did, because I believed in principles and values, and I didn't pay any attention to money. There, I balanced, close to the weak, the householder, the ordinary citizen, like many of you, by taking strength from every small contribution I made. I will leave, ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of my speech today, in future generations, when they read how it can, while you are the one who protected the public interest, who changed them all in a way that these changes today are a rule, that you have limited the profits of multinational pharmaceuticals, who have caught the unfair practices, that you have led them to the audit authorities, who have insisted that you have revealed the scandal in Greece, to become and potentially accused of a mere deposit of an anonymous witness that says he heard rumours about someone. You know, ladies and gentlemen, if you would refer me to me - I would not have any objections personally - this action may be more teaching for our children and more useful than some billions I have received from the Greek public. What I have done, along with what I think you will not, can be an example of how to avoid in the future, when another minimum case has been recorded that will be added to a series of major examples, which home kills those who have benefited from it. Maybe that's how you make me more important than I feel I am. Thank you for listening. I'm sorry if I worked you out with a few trivial details.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u609	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and schoolchildren and three educational sessions from the High School of Heraklion. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Javarras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u610	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I should first of all like to confess to you that since the morning I have been following the meeting, I am anxious to see from the lips of those who have taken over here today to support the accusation against the two former Prime Ministers and the five former Ministers, I am trying to see what this superficial behaviour is capable of being characterised as a criminal and to lead to the setting-up of the committee of inquiry. And because I have been ministering to the area of justice for for forty years, I have learned to say and repeat that there is only justice if it is able to rely on the truth, the truth of the facts, the reliability of the evidence and the sincerity of those supporting it. Because it is incomprehensible to believe that with all that we have heard previously by Mr Polakis or Mr Papagelopoulos or by all the others who have produced from this Step and have diligently avoided putting the finger on the types of suns limited to general references, it is not possible for all of them, based on reason and law, to have a conviction that is founded on the facts and the law which deserves to be set up to set up a committee of inquiry in the sense that it is mentioned and described in Article 86 of the Constitution. But above all, I would like to address the members of the government, and I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that this process which we are all attending today is based on the provision of Rule 86, as many people have said, not to say without exception. But what I do not think we are aware of is that, today, the plenary exercises an excellent responsibility, an competence which is neither legislative nor controllative to the Government of content, but is judicial authority. And that responsibility, Minister, and you and the others you have spoken, belongs entirely to the House, to the Members. There is no possibility in this Chamber of discussing only among the Members. And I say this because in Stepa I saw this hours ago a prosecutor trial came up and a minister who is not a Member of Parliament. I will not say that this offends parliamentary order. I shall not say that this is not the case either by the Constitution or by the Rules of Procedure. But I'll just say one. Gentlemen, in this process that you have started you are tragically alone in the truth that you have with all the means you have to fight to hide it. But you won't get away with the truth. And you won't get away with it. Do you know why? For once a small child in a tale had said: "The king is naked." And you may not see your nakedness, but it's already become superfluous in this Chamber. We have heard things that are unreserved and unreserved, because, as far as three years ago, you have repeated an old political practice known to the left. Every social issue, every political issue, every parliamentary procedure, you always try to put it in the public debate in terms of friendship and dissatisfaction. For you the importance and value of everything you are doing, in everything you are proposing, you can name the Greek people enemies and through this determination of your hostility towards the old political system, the New Democracy, the PASOK, the JRC, through this very relationship to try to give meaning to your political existence. But today you will not succeed, and you will not do so because you cannot really go after everything that has been said to say that this Chamber is unholy to justice and to the truth. It is, in fact, unholy to the truth that you want to impose. And I say this because in this whole process the government plays a leading role. From where this process began, you remember - you most yourself said - that a court procedure was initiated by the Prime Minister, and that, of course, abuses and mocks both the Constitution and the institutions, because in this very Chamber, this case had to come without any mediation of a government factor. The second and most important thing is that in this process today we already have a case-file prepared. And while I have already heard my fellow Member, Mr Friday, say that Article 86 of the Constitution only recognises the right and the power to carry out a preliminary examination, but there is already a preliminary examination, there is a preliminary investigation - I would say - which, although it has been impacting the names of members of the Government, the State Secretarys and the former Prime Ministers, yet this case-file of prosecutors insists that it be processed. What right? Has anyone wondered what right any of the main prosecutors of corruption or any other judiciary or minister insisted on processing, investigating, conducting preliminary investigations or preliminary investigations, when he has already offended offences and persons for whom Article 86 of the Constitution reserves excellent authority to prosecute them in this House? Isn't that a coup? Is that not something that you are not entitled today to appear in Parliament on this occasion, which we have seen before us by some ministers? Are you happy about what you've achieved? Why don't you let the House deal with its responsibilities? The House wants neither fatherless nor prostates nor Commissioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u611	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u612	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that here, in this Chamber, above all what serves with dignity is popular sovereignty. Of course, not everyone is legal and constitutionalists who are involved in this Parliament. I believe, however, that everyone has the constitutional and political sensitivity, when Parliament decides as a judicial body, as prosecutors, to know that justice is to be able every time that the institution of this operation is able to give everyone what it deserves. Unfortunately, so far from the lips of those who are accused - and I have listened carefully - I have only seen one complaint. None of you who spoke to them have told them why they are accused, what act or omission in their historic time has been attributed to the reproach that they have linked their presence to a ministry. And that is a loss to democracy and transparency. And you claim you want to put on the timeline of history, as you say in the furious expression of another populist leader, the old political system? But who are you, at last, gentlemen? You don't understand that the worst way you go on the darkest pages of Postmulsion? Finally, you must respect Parliament and, above all, you must leave these procedural terminology with the polluter procedures, and the request today is whether we will vote 'yes' or 'no' on the setting up of a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination, you have made this procedure in a way that is more than just a matter of guilt or exemption from specific accusations in people - ten the number - who so far have not understood why you are blatantly accusing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u613	I will give Mr Kotzias the floor for two minutes, to answer some of the reports that have been made to him by previous speakers, followed by Mr Katsikis, Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Dritsas, Mr Loverdos and then follow him up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u614	Thank you, Mr President. Three aspects have been mentioned here in this House that I said that those mentioned must prove that they are not guilty, which I have never done yesterday, if they wrote it as such more than ten articles of the argument. I will read to you exactly what I said: 'No one is condemned in advance, but the scandals were there. What is their institution, let justice find it. In other words, I will vote for a committee of inquiry in Parliament and I will support this procedure, because if anyone is innocent, he will have to be attributed back to society as innocent. If anyone is guilty, it must be cleared, according to the old Greek tradition in antiquity." And the question is: have they not read my statement? Good! Didn't they read my denial? And they come here saying they heard them and read them and make comments to the cabinet? I think it is inconsistent to conclude that they did not read, listen, but reproduce false news with a simple hand that is inconsistent with this Parliament. And the question is: did it bother them that I told them that we need to clear up? Did it bother them that I said the innocent must be rendered innocent in society? It bothered them that I said justice would find out who's guilty and who's innocent? Three years some people have been protesting with lies, slandering, character murders. They disturb you two things and I will tell you: it disturbs you that there are people - there is this government - who put their duty above themselves and who no one holds them and can say their opinion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u615	Mr Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u616	It refers to another statement, Mr President. The statement to the ERT read, Mr. Kotzia!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u617	No, Mrs. Bakoyannis. I have the statement to 'ALPHA'. I'm filing the quote in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u618	You gave a full interview. "I said - "!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u619	Please! Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u620	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Independent Greeks]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, by listening to colleagues from this Step forward, to express opinions, positions and reflections on the subject under discussion of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, a reflection was created on me: this is scandal or a construction? Can both happen? Should this be a scandal, too? And if it's not a craftsman, the case starts here, it'll come to justice and the truth will shine. If, however, this is not a scandal, all those who defend themselves as non-existent, really tell us who created the scandal? Could anyone answer this question, ladies and gentlemen, who created the 'NOVARTIS' scandal? Unless some, as defenders of themselves, are also turned into defenders of "NOVARTIS", passing the message that this is not a scandal. In the last two weeks we have witnessed a political earthquake, which has erupted on the occasion of the announcement of an investigation into political responsibilities relating to the case 'NOVARTIS'. The scandal to be investigated is causing strong shocks on the foundations of a multi-teaching system, which seems to have benefited from the health of citizens, the economics of Greek households and, by extension, the national economy. The overpriced of NOVARTIS medicines is estimated to have cost Greece around EUR 3 billion, while similar health practices appear to have cost the country around EUR 23 billion for the period 2000 to 2015. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the scandal is a real one and we must all agree on it, let alone when the US Federal Research Office, the FBI, which comes under the US Ministry of Justice, has revealed the existence of a scandal in twenty-nine countries around the world, with Greece being included in this list. So, having taken the first step, which is the assumption of the scandal, we must go along with it, because let us not blind ourselves to political responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen, there are certainly. We must therefore unravel the bucket, the very confusing confession of political responsibility, and stop at every knot that also hides one involved. And you know, there are a lot of knots in the bucket that need to be solved. For now there are ten knots, as much as the balls. And at this point, I would like to focus on the knot of the bucket, the poll on the former Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras. The Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, has the highest political responsibility for carrying out his government's work. So in the polls, under the name of "Samaras" we are called upon to vote and decide whether, in the end, a former Prime Minister knew or at least had to know what was going on in the field of health. Didn't it get out or didn't it? Clearly, we have lost control. Who's responsible? Is the Prime Minister informed by his ministers? And if so, what happened? Didn't he control his ministers? Did he know what was happening and did not proceed to the appropriate acts, or did he fail? Did he legitimize them by his tolerance? Even if he did, doesn't he have responsibilities? It's sloppy that responsibilities exist. To what extent, however, it remains to be judged by the Committee of Inquiry. So with regard to the whole process and to the investigation of liability, the Independent Greeks will vote in favour of setting up a special committee to carry out a preliminary examination under Article 86 of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, show some tolerance, just like others, to me. And we believe that the Party of Officers must do the same: the New Democracy has stated that it will vote for everything to come to light and must do it without discounts, without any conditions and, more importantly, without threats. The New Democracy must vote in favour of setting up a pre-review committee, when it considers that its members have nothing to fear. The New Democracy must vote in favour of setting up a pre-examination committee, even if it considers that some are involved in the whole case, whether directly or indirectly, when it does not want shadows to be misled and to affect the credibility and honesty of its officials. In any case, illegal practices and underground transactions in favour of ‘NOVARTIS’ must be investigated, overpriceds in favour of the interests of the company in question and at the expense of the public interest in relation to superfluous money exchanges must be considered. It is clearly necessary to investigate fully the possible involvement of political people and to charge criminal responsibilities as long as they arise from the investigation. The Prosecutor's inquiry in Greece continues in depth for over four thousand doctors allegedly bribed by the multinational pharmaceutical industry. The highest prices in our country were not only bleeding for the state budget, but were also giving the signal for increased drug prices in other countries, as Greece was one of the so-called countries - indicators. The Independent Greeks say that we need to shed plenty of light on what has happened and see what conclusions justice will draw as to the part of criminal responsibility. It is unacceptable that the attitude of the Officerate should be taken when it talks about hoodiers, because it is the legal status of witness protection, which has been internationally valid in our country since 2001 with No 2928. In addition, 2014, as has been said - and I repeat - the Samara Government has introduced Law 4254 in 2014, which set new guarantees to encourage responsible information to the competent authorities in cases of corruption, since concern about retaliation and criminal persecution is, to date, the most important blocking factor for citizens who wish to contribute to the fight against corruption. So don't you find it a little paradoxical to protest in principle about a law which you actually voted on in your own government, ladies and gentlemen of the Officership? Protection of witnesses, for which you so strongly react, can only be lifted to court when the case arrives there, and only by decision of the seat, after the parties so request that it be asked to do so. It is you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, who are taking a raw step in the work of independent justice and not the government. Your statements are ambiguous. On the one hand, you welcome the correctness and impartiality of judicial decisions, as happened in the case of the Turkish officers, and on the other hand you blame the justice for taking decisions and taking action in governmental dictators. You are the ones who release threats and file complaints against public officials. It is you who, from the very beginning, have been indulging in a delusion in order to intimidate the witnesses. In this effort you have turned against everything. And let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that you are the same, who recently, in violation of the confidentiality of Parliament's meetings, did not hesitate to make secret, classified, secret military documents in order to obtain micro-party benefits. You made it fun. You are calling on the legality of you who have committed a number of violations and are already to be prosecuted for your actions on armaments.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u621	Mr. Katsiki, you've reached nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u622	I'm done, Mr. President. Don't throw ashes in the eyes of the world. You blame the government for mud practices in the fan you who are once again trying to throw ashes into the eyes of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, let justice investigate and prove exactly what has happened in the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. That's what we're taking. Nothing more, nothing less. Investigation of the NOVARTIS scandal is a necessary condition for the clearance in the sensitive health sector and in general in the public life of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate leads to a single conclusion: the country's legal framework regarding the law on the responsibility of the ministers needs to change and must change. This must be our minimum deposit on the long-term path towards resolution. The institutional shielding of the state and the safeguarding of transparency believe me is a duty of all of us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u623	Mr. Venizelo, do you want the floor? Mr. Loverdos? Or Mr. Koutsukos?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u624	What's the show?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u625	The turn was Mr. Koutsoukos, Mr. Loverdos, and then you, Mr. Venizelos. That was obviously the case by your parliamentary group about two and a half hours ago. We also put the MPs on the list. Do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u626	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u627	You have the floor, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u628	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warmly thank the Members of the SYRIZA-ANEL parliamentary majority who have not omitted me from the NOVARTIS case. I am pleased that in this case, which concerns the Ministry of Health, you have also found a place for me, even though one of the three anonymous witnesses, who once smacked my name somewhere in his statement, could not at some point tell about me a carrotous story with interest, a story with suitcases, bags and files. None of this. That's a miserable mention of my name. So I guess my name's been in forensics by habit. Some have not been mindful of previous attempts to target me, perhaps because “the Lord is being troubled.” I would therefore like to thank you for putting me at the forefront of the battle for democracy and the rule of law. Because that is the issue, that is at stake, the fundamental institutions of the culture, of parliamentary democracy and of the orderly rule of law! [[Applause]] The fundamental question: why is that now? Did some willing witnesses now happen to appear before the prosecutor of corruption, and so the file was sent to Parliament in early February the day after the rally? That's too good for that to be true. This case, the NOVARTIS case, has been announced and you have been inaugurating it politically and unfortunately as a government for over a year and a half. So, after a year and a half, there's suddenly this acceleration? Why is this happening now? That is now because your radicalism in economic matters has evaporated. It was transformed into humble retreat. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] From the expressions of antisystemic nationalism, you have become the best delivery boy to beg for the praises of the European partners and the International Monetary Fund. In the economy you lick where you spit, but unfortunately without results. Because the record of the clean exit from your Memorandum, the third one, doesn't come up. It runs counter to the markets as shown by the seven-year homologous curve. The warnings are on the table that there is no clear way out and it is dangerous, as today by the President of Eurogroup, Mr Sedeno, in reply to a Member of the European Parliament, Mrs Lagard, Mr Reggling, Mr Draghi, yesterday to Mr Tsakaloto. Do you remember that I, before all the institutional leaders, told you 'take the preventive line like us in November 2014 here in the budget debate'? Do you remember Mr. Tsakalotou's obsolete, unrecognised answer? As once, in 2015, I went to TV the notorious e-mail Hardouvelis and said "keep it, you'll see that it's a playground in relation to the Tsipras Memorial - Kammenos coming", so I told you and I told you again about the preventive credit line. Didn't you get the message from Eurogroup yesterday that delayed the dose? Something tells you that. It's not for formal reasons. So we're going to the field of foreign policy and defence policy. You went to play with the denomination, not seeking real consensus. You have seen what a responsible attitude I take in this respect, but you do not seek responsibility or consensus. You wanted to embarrass the Civic Opposition in order to cover the intra-government disagreements on the issue of the name. You didn't do it. And suddenly they opened up all the fronts to foreign policy in the worst way. Imia II is unfortunately - I stress it - much worse than Imia I, because now we know everything, we have not been surprised. It is the first time in the fifteen years of Erdogan governance that we have a hot episode and, unfortunately, a spread to the big issues of national interest, because they have restored the theory of grey zones increased as a Turkishisation theory of the Immigration, of course without any foundation under international law. Of course, they are wrongdoing, but this is unfortunately the reality that is affecting the interests of the country because of the inadequacy of the rulers and because of their availability to play on economic and foreign policy issues. In Cyprus, what is politics? What about the drill? What about AOZ? These are issues which, of course, are due to Turkish provocativeness and we are giving legal answers, but real situations arise for Hellenism. And then Albania that I don't want to comment on. I've left to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs our preparation for demarcation of maritime zones. So what happens when all this happens? The government seeks the easy escape, which is the blackmail of institutions. But this escape is the most irresponsible and the most dangerous. In justice, ladies and gentlemen, a grim situation has arisen. It concerns not only external independence with government interventions, but above all the internal independence of justice. Judges and prosecutors subject to a system of hierarchical dependence, when not carrying out judicial tasks, shall be closely monitored. There are constantly disciplinary and criminal prosecutions against judges and prosecutors when their judicial judgment does not like them. It is a feature of what is happening with the continuing interventions of the Director of the Prime Minister's Legal Office, which, taking advantage of her old judicial status, is an administrative body, is a government body, pressures the eaters not to exercise their powers under Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to call for a plenary meeting to be convened on board to assign cases of major interest to an experienced interrogator, as has been done dozens of times in the past. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors denounces with its current announcement the Director of the Prime Minister's Legal Office and all this is carried by the informal spokesman at times of the government and sometimes of the Prosecutor's circles, Mr Vaxebannis. I will present the statements which violate the separation of powers, by Mrs Thanos, the relevant tweets on the social media of Mr Vaxebane, the current communication, institutionally heavier, of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. I am sending from the Step of the House a message of independence and dignity to the overwhelming majority of the honest and unwitting Greek and Greek judges and prosecutors and I ask them in the name of the law to stand up and resist this blatant attack on judicial independence. [[Applause]] The deep state after many decades is once again housed in justice. Kollia's ghost is alive, and this has been taken over by the sub-contracting workshop of the government's third component. In the case of "NOVARTIS" you have been applying simple propaganda mechanisms to an existing medical scandal of international dimensions which has been being investigated in many countries for many years. You are presenting a domestic political device that has no like in any other country that is investigating the subject of "NOVARTIS". Nowhere else has there been any involvement of political persons and they are investigating judicial authorities in dozens of countries. What else is there in Greece? The question is the business conflict between a German company and American pharmaceutical companies, as with that conflict in other sectors, such as telecommunications, defence or automobile, in the case of VOLKSWAGEN. And you came to make the choice of the people - objectives: Antonis Samaras, Evangelos Venizelos, the Samaras Government - Venizelos, the main opponents, of course, because you joined our line and you cannot stand it. You can't justify it to your audience. I'm not talking about Antonis Samaras, he'll do it himself. But I am a nail in your eyes, because I have given a historic battle for the country, because my word is institutional, because my positions are verified and - unfortunately - my warnings and because I have the courage to express the word of the truth, even when it is in the interests of the government, because to me it is in the interests of my nation. Panagiotis Pikrammenos wondered why he was targeted. Because it expresses another view of dignity, right of speech and resistance in justice. [[Applause]] Ioannis Stournaras, because you have been eaten away by a Governor of the Bank of Greece. Dimitris Avramopoulos, because it would be very useful to leave the Commissioner's position vacant so that you could hand over a Commissioner from your party when you leave. And we have the Vice-President of the Officerial Representation, the Parliamentary Representative of the Second Party of Representation, the Democratic Alliance and three other former Ministers. We have a smuggling of derailing periods of pharmacological expenditure and containment of pharmacological expenditure. [[Applause]] And because I experienced what it means to receive the pharmaceutical expenditure in 2009 increased by 160% and public health expenditure increased by 70% and I had a continuous presence from October 2009 to January 2015, I know it better than anyone else. However, choices of people are a matter. Omissions of persons are another equally big issue. Are all the Prime Ministers of the period? Are all the ministers? Are all the relevant ministers, regardless of where responsibility was at times? [[Applause]] The political objective is obvious: in terms of the New Democracy, it is pervasive following the failure of the pervasion plan through the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In the Democratic Compact, targeting those people who exclude flirting with SYRIZA. That's the reality. You have announced the 'NOVARTIS' case for fourteen months and you have been politicizing it. You incubate her. You have made a series of statements that are, I say, very kindly, opposed to public prosecutors. Mr. Tsipras announces the ‘NOVARTIS’ case, speaking to Parliament on 1 February 2017. I'll testify to that. Mr Lappas, a representative of SYRIZA in matters of justice and the rule of law and a predominant legal person, at the same meeting on 1 February, proclaims 'the birds they will sing' at 'NOVARTIS'. I shall submit the minutes of 1 February 2017. Mr. Paulakis immediately afterwards, in an interview he gives and is naturally reproduced in "DOCUMENTO" on January 8, 2017, a few days later, he talks about the components of the black money and the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health's political leaders. I'll testify. And the "DOCUMENTO", which you know has issued the period of television licences and who runs it, starts the attacks, starts the attacks, "First Prime Minister in Novartis - gate". This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I'll testify. The following week, on January 15, 2017, Novartis - gate, photo by Mr. Avramopoulos, “The Great New Democracy sponsored by 200 million”. I'll testify. And shortly thereafter, on March 12, 2017, again: "Television - Fake Adonish and the conferential Evangelatos". I'll testify. And so begins the scenery of the protected witnesses, a provision that is rarely applied, a provision that was applied for the trial of the Golden Dawn. Where did the designers of this case inspire her? The FBI. He tells you the FBI took it out, let's do it, let's show up that we're modern. [[Applause]] But obviously the witnesses of the US authorities are not matched by the three anonymous witnesses. It has been said to all tons by the American witness lawyer. I would remind you that in the documents Mrs Tulupaki illegally provoked by the US authorities, there is no reference to political persons for me, Mr Pikrammenos and Mr Koutromanis, not even to the transfer on the substance of anyone. And for non-political persons, there is not even in the transmission report on Mr Liger, obviously not on the substance either. So it's very important to see what happened. What happened in March 2017 was the resignation of Riku. Did the resignation of Riku occur as Mr Papagelopoulos presented in his speech? No, of course not. Ms. Ryku resigned by pressing the paper 'DOCUMENTO', for she appeared accused by an interrogator, President of the First Chamber, that she failed to transmit documents concerning the cases of Papantoniou and Liakunakou. He strongly protested not to go as a sheep for slaughter. The paper reacted. Here is the front page: "Ryku has forgotten about Yannos and Liakunakos". I'll testify. It celebrates 'DOCUMENTO', i.e. the Government newspaper, 'The Prosecutor of Corruption Eleni Ryku'. I'll testify. The government's answer is in Eleni Riku. A violent attack by the Minister of Justice, personally, the Prosecutor of Corruption, who resigns, Ms. Ryku. I will submit Mr. Kontonis's statements and the triumph of the government's newspaper. I will also submit the version of 'KATHMERINI'. And continues the "Documento" attacks with a new headline: five-star corruption with a co-ordinator Ms. Ryku, the Prosecutor of Corruption, who is conspiring and coordinating the cases of Papantoniou, Liakunakou, Vinopoulou, Stournara and Koriopolis. I'll testify. Let's go to the rest now. While all this happens until March 2017, after the tomb silence, lies! And suddenly, fever. Since when? As of 6 November 2017. From that time on, we have had an impressive deposit methodology. They're filing the witnesses from November 6th to February 4th. And I've got two typical paintings here, absolutely tutorial. One table shows the days, hours, time of deposit and extent of each witness’s deposit pages. Five hours at the D.A.'s office, one and a half pages of statement. Four hours at the D.A.'s office, two pages of statement. Somewhere else, three hours at the D.A.'s office, eleven pages of deposit, with another font. I'll submit three tables to see the paradoxes of the procedural method. Days, vacations, hours, duration, deposit area. Infringement of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Articles 224 to 226, Crystal. The other painting, however, is even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u629	Please, Mr. Venizelo, how long do you want to finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u630	As much time as Mr. Paulakis. Twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u631	No, no. One more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u632	Everyone spoke twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u633	Paulakis spoke twenty-five minutes from ten he had.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u634	Please don't interfere underneath. I'm preside over. Please, Mr. Georgiadis. I'm preside over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u635	Mr President, I will not be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u636	You're very welcome. Thirty minutes I'm going to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u637	Mr President, let me move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u638	Please, let's get in touch. I'll leave you and interrupt you 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u639	Here, then, it appears that names of political persons have been deposited, all until 5 January. Incidentally, mine will then be added on 15 January. I'm going to testify this list too. It is indicative of the delay in sending the file to Parliament, as required by the Constitution and the law. So the transmission takes place after the 'DOCUMENTO', which I shall be tabling on Sunday, February 4th - that is, it has been printed since Friday, February 2nd - announces all the contents of the case-file, even the contents of the case-file which is on Sunday 4th. [[Applause]] On Monday February 5th, the corruption prosecutor is organizing a basilopita cutting at noon, with an invited guest of Mr. Papaggiopoulou and Mrs Thanos alone. Not the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, not the Prosecutor of the Prosecutors' Prosecutors. On the same day, Mr. Janakopoulos was unable to go to cut, because he was at the prosecutor's office at the Ice Arrow and said he went to inform him of the case. With what competence and what legal basis? I'll testify to that, too. It is known that Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Papagelopoulos have studied and evaluated the case-file by violating the law, the separation of powers and the independence of justice. I'll make the statements. And then, Mr. Paulakis, of course, appears in "NT-1" and says "We know them witnesses, we caught them with a lot of money and they sing". He knows the witnesses, we don't know them. I'm going to testify to this. Is this, then, a new wave of opposition of public prosecutors? I'm saying it's too mild. I'll tell you what confrontation means. And there comes Maximos Sarafis, one of the witnesses, and says "additionally, in March 2012 in a document of "NOVARTIS" there are also 20 thousand for the Ministry of Finance, for Mr Plaskovitis, Secretary General and Mr Venizelos, to promote the purpose of the company in relation to the reinvestment list, i.e. the list of indemnity drugs, with which the Ministry of Finance has nothing to do with it. Absolutely nothing. The witness submits and reads a booklet - not a document - lined, wide circulation. Do you know what the date is? Date of birth: (a) May 2012. In May 2012, I am not a Minister of Finance. I resigned on March 21, 2012. This is the part of the case-file, 20,000 for market access on the issues of the Ministry of Finance, in a period when I am not the Minister of Finance and on matters regardless of the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. I'll submit the relevant brochure. After two days it says: "You know, the Guardian has told me that Mr. Lindzeris has appointed Mr. Venizelos to the IOF. He was appointed by the Minister of Health with the approval of a broad majority of Parliament's Committee on Social Affairs, with much of the opposition agreeing. The Guardian told me that he listened to the market that Lindzeris is a Venizelos cashier in health matters." Do you know what we're talking about? At the time when I cut off the bonds taken against public debt by pharmaceutical companies in 53.3%, i.e. I cut them EUR 2.3 billion, at a net value of EUR 4 billion. They had dogs against me. They had appealed to the Council of State. They were making a fuss in all the media. Following the Council of State, where the decision was adopted in 2015, they appealed to Strasbourg, against my actions, to the European Court of Human Rights and the decision came out on 9 February. I'm going to file the press releases on the pharmacies against me. They were going to give me a turbulence, because I cut them EUR 2.5 billion single! [[Applause]] I will table the judgment of 9 February 2018 of the European Court of Human Rights for some of the pharmaceutical companies, which went unnecessarily. And I got a lesson. Here is a record of all the legal history. I'll submit the relevant document. Even the Guardian himself reacts on the subject. He gives interviews and tells Mr. Teloglou to "Kathemerini", on 12 February: "Well, what they say to me. Mr. Venizelo, I've never seen him. Venizelos, Pikrammenos and Abrahamopoulos." Well, obviously, he hadn't seen me. I'll submit the relevant document. For these reasons, therefore, I have had to file an indictment and lawsuit for fraud, slandering, abuse of power, and why there is the offence - which I will say outlines - the slap in the status of the state institution to alter fundamental institutions of the nation, such as the separation of powers and the independence of justice. I'll testify for you. Procedural interventions need not be said. I am simply saying that in addition to the telephone communications with Mr. Papagelopoulos - Mr. Athanasiou raised the subject - the paper 'PHELLETEROS' on 7 February says that there was also a visit by Mrs. Toulopakis at the Maximos Concert Hall. I'll testify to you the paper. The issue of anonymous witnesses has left them. He's burdening justice at the highest level. You saw yesterday the announcement of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow. They retrospectively referred to as ‘certificates of public interest’. We have to look at the reasoning, because even afterward, it must be documented that they are not involved in the actions to be investigated and do not have the same benefit. But, on 9 February, does the prosecutor of corruption and the prosecutor of the Ice Bay have jurisdiction? No, of course, because the case-file has been forwarded to the House and the only prosecutor in charge is the House. The act was unlawfully adopted with complete lack of jurisdiction. Retrospectively, absolute nullity is not cured. Do you know what absolute nullity of the procedure means?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u640	Mr. Venizelo, please, what time will we finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u641	I will present to you the statement of the Advocate-General and my statement on all legal matters. Those who are streams and want to control matters of procedure can read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u642	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u643	I will finish soon, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u644	How soon?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u645	In five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u646	Five minutes is a lot, Mr. Venizelo. Two minutes, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u647	Mr President, this is where our honour is being played. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u648	Look, the price in time always has a price when it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u649	Price, no price! Let me go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u650	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u651	We're the ones, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u652	The whole debate economy requires some discipline. A certain discipline!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u653	Don't interrupt me. And you're in the seat now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u654	Mr. Venizelo, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u655	Don't interrupt me! That's not respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u656	Where were you, Mr. President, when they spoke twenty-five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u657	Mr. Amyras, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u658	Don't interrupt me and you're in the seat now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u659	And Mr. Georgiadis also spoke thirty-five minutes and Mr. Paulakis spoke as much as he spoke. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u660	Speak twenty-five minutes of the ten you have and another twenty-five of the twenty-nine!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u661	Mr. Amyras, Mr. Venizelos is especially the only one in the Chamber who doesn't need any lawyer. Let's get together! Please. Please. However, it is not right to demand immunity!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u662	Same measures for everyone, Mr President, and not immunity!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u663	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u664	Mr President, you're ruining my heart, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u665	I'm ruining your misery, and you're ruining the process. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u666	Am I the one that's ruining the process that you've let go with the ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u667	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u668	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u669	Which ministers have forgotten the process?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u670	Look at the times of the ministers. Look at the times!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u671	Haven't you seen them, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u672	Listen: On 9 February, I sent a letter to Mr. Voutsis and asked him for the public interest notice because he did not exist. They read the letter and went and made the clumsiness take the deed off. I'll give you the letter. Be careful now, I only have two arguments. Listen: The subject of the witnesses is nothing in front of the committee's colpo grosso. Says Mr. Paraskeviopoulos, professor of Criminal Law and rapporteur, this morning: “What will Parliament do today? He does what the Constitution says." Watch out. 'It raises the matter in plenary and proposes that a preliminary committee should be set up to examine whether it is in its own right, so we have eliminated, i.e. limitation or not, in which case the cases will be tried by a joint court'. So the preliminary committee is not going to investigate anything about the substance. He won't call the witnesses so they don't suffer bullying. So the perfect crime. They say: “We have a file. The infidelity, which is the dishonourable offence, the damage of the public, has been banned for everyone and Mr Kurublis. The bribes? We will see whether it is in the exercise of duties or in relation to tasks. If it is on duty, they have been suspended. If it is simply in relation, they go to justice." I mean, absolute cynicism! That, you know, completely violates the case law, the recent one. It has also been said by the Council of the Special Court of Article 86 with its decree 1 of 2011 that corruption is, of course, also recorded in the Athens Court of Appeal in a Council meeting with its 1440s in 2010. The case-law is given, so justice has sent the file. But we don't want to give up. We want research into both infidelity and corruption. [[Applause]] We don't want a trick. We do not want a committee to have a legal debate and say 'the others have been dropped, for some other people you go to justice'. Justice will say: "I, based on case law and theory, have no competence". So the case is over. Mud, gray belt, and everything's fine, we're friends. Is there more misery than that? Is there a more morbid perception than that? And they add money that does not exist in the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutors or the witnesses have said nothing, and in any case it is up to the judiciary. Justice wouldn't send that. What the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should say, since this is a matter for the judiciary. So, caffeine frame. I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a slandering attack, a construction, a preliminary committee, supposedly, which does not actually look at witnesses, is resuming to justice, but justice has not sent to the House any questions about money laundering, because there is no such indication. It creates a flaw in bribery, does not examine the infidelities, shields Mr Kurubl and we have no place to resort. We cannot go to the Ice Bay Council because it does not have jurisdiction, we cannot go to the Special Court Council because it does not. But we can go to many other courts. They want to block our lawsuits, because if the witness is in the public interest, the Ice Bay Attorney can give him full immunity, order abstention from criminal prosecution. Yeah? And for moral self-government, for the co-workers and for prosecutors to abuse power and for the members of the government in recent betrayal, why is it that the state institution is slapping the status of a state institution to alter fundamental institutions of the culture, such as the separation of powers, the definition of Article 134 of the Criminal Code? [[Applause]] There is always Strasbourg, immediately. Look, the trick is very simple: they want the construction to remain pending, under the conditions of the rape of institutions and under the conditions of political rupture, because their strategy is the strategy of acidification. Only solution...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u673	Please, can we close?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u674	Yes, Mr President, it is my last paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u675	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u676	Only solution - I am sorry to say that - is elections. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] There are now purely political fronts: democracy - authoritarianism, the rule of law - deep state, European perspective - third-world adventure. We will not let them bury the country's future in the mud. The struggle is a struggle for democracy, for rights, for the rule of law, for the rebuilding of the country. [[Applause]] The next House lifts great institutional weight for the restoration of the independence of justice and the revelation of the greatest but also the worst construction of Postpopulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u677	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and students and four teachers from the High School of Nea Triglias Halkidikis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on the former Prime Minister, the president, Antonis Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u678	Ladies and gentlemen, today I have not come here to answer the terrible slandering. I'm here to denounce the ridiculous indictment, malicious, vulgar and unmistakable misinterpretation, political intentions and the perpetrators behind it. I didn't come to apologize, I came to report. It would be perfectly normal, of course, to feel anger about all this, but it is not mostly the anger I feel today, it is my deep concern at where the country is driving and my determination to stop this catapult. I'm not here to just stumble that I'm innocent and as you'll understand, I don't even need it. I'm here to report the dangers they pose for the country and the civilization. Before all, I would like to warn the National Representation of two major risks. Firstly, when it turns out completely that the indictment against the innocent and against me is set and the complaints against me absolutely slanderous, it will then seem what a disgraceful precedent it is being created. Any future government will be able to invoke anonymous false witnesses to smash previous ones to eliminate its opponents. And if we allow this, it will be the end of urban democracy in our country. If they put anonymously protected, supposedly witnesses smuggling ministers and the former Prime Minister of the country with poor accusations of the type 'hearing', 'they said', 'I think', 'I'm guessing' without the slightest element, with no evidence at all of any contradictory testimony, then where are we? And if that goes to the expense of politicians, why not generalize to the detriment of anyone, to the detriment of every ordinary citizen? There goes the rule of law, justice goes, democracy goes. And then there will be no political controversy, there will be a generalised mud war and no one will feel safe. Mostly, innocent people will not feel safe, because from this mud war they have nothing to lose, they only have to lose the clean ones. I repeat, this would be tantamount to the dismantling of democracy and the imposition of a one-party state of ruthless and uncontrollable, because that is what SYRIZA wants, apart from temporary governance to take power forever. That was their misery, and they're told by themselves. In fact, Mr Kotzias has come with statements this evening, but others also question the presumption of innocence. We've heard that too! I have forty years been a Member of this House and never heard of such a proposal. They're accusing us of unsettling pseudo witnesses, and they're telling us above that we have to prove that we're not elephants. But they've already made a first big mistake, because with the construction against me and against my government what do they say? They blame us, if possible, for cutting off the source of the scandal, which is the pharmacy expenditure in sums that have never been cut in Greece or internationally - did Adonis say so perfectly - who? Those who when we voted for the measures to hit corruption in the drug voted against them and when we beat the interests of the drug scene, they allied with interests. Here's an example. On March 3, 2013, when we imposed measures to curb corruption on the drug, the “AUGI” was released under the headline title: “The medicine is a social commodity and is not subject to restrictions”. Take it and enjoy it. [[At this point Mr Antony Samaras presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why then this front page? But because he had the Tsipra statement to the pharmaceuticals he had seen the day before. Another example. In November 2013, months after my supposed bribery by the Guardian, there was an event where the Guardian called my policy on the medicine. Why? Because I was cutting expenditure. Next to him was SYRIZA's representative, the current Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, who said the same at the time. Please also take the relevant news story of the time. [[At this point Mr Antony Samaras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And now, to understand, you have been meeting with pharmaceuticals and supporting them and voting against our own measures. Did you then get them? Did they come to you running bags, too? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you met then as government with them and public and private. Did you get it again then? For we were chasing them when our own pharmaceuticals described us as an analgesic with you sitting in the adjacent chairs. So when we voted for measures such as claw back, rebate, the electronic prescription with which corruption was drastically reduced to the drug by 3 billion, please year after year when we voted on measures that reduced public waste, by 63% for the drug within two and a half years - 63%, which has never happened anywhere - then what did SYRIZA do? These measures voted against them all and openly supported the pharmaceutical industry. And he, ladies and gentlemen, is the second risk, which I am warning the National Representation of today that in the future, in these attitudes, no one will dare touch corruption, because he will know that whoever hits it will eventually find his problem from the top. I won't say about the party that cut PSI Venizelos by 2.3 billion revenues from pharmaceutical companies, but it's certain that then we know from evidence, SYRIZA was across and denounced us. And the "NOVARTIS" in 2014, the last year of the country's governance by us, had damages of 5.7 million. Next year on SYRIZA, what do you think happened? NOVARTIS had a profit of 19 million. Take this and see it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point Mr Antony Samaras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] All the evidence there is shows that we hit corruption in the drug and SYRIZA set them back. And come to mine now. Here's the conduit, it's an eye. They were forced last year to resign the prosecutor of corruption, who was looking for the relevant investigation, the relationship of corporations with doctors. He'd spotted faces and bills. It would be very interesting to know which faces and which accounts. She was forced - Mr Venizelos explained - on resignation and pushed research elsewhere, at the spiral of their political opponents, which has never been done anywhere in the world. Political manipulation, political motives and pressure on judges began early. And now beware: they have announced the so-called involvement of former Prime Minister - it has been said many times, but it has to be understood - eleven months before there is any testimony against me or against Mr Pikramenos. I have here the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO' by Mr Vaxebane, the government's well-known propaganda liar, dated 8 January 2017, last year. [[At this point Mr Antony Samaras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Since then, Mr. Tsipras has done the same thing in his speeches in the House, and the first report against me became eleven months later in December 2017. Question: Where did they know Tsipras and Vaxeban? Did they have the inherited gift? They had divination skills? They went to cartons. Let me tell you where they knew. They set it up. First they set up the slander, then they started spreading it and eleven months later they also found the false witnesses to tie the slander. So they first made the script, then they started advertising it, and at the end the actors came in. You didn't look for the guilty! You chose them long before the guilty, you yourselves! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And all that I said at the beginning of 2017 last year. Meanwhile, the Kammenos scandal escaped with the sale of weapons to Saudi Arabia, and the turmoil with the auctions, anger of society by overtaxation, is now beginning and accelerating the search for false witnesses, who finally find them in November. As you'll see, not just this, but the whole case has the fingerprints of moral perpetrators everywhere. Furthermore, the protected witness trying to involve me is tabling a statement - take note - four times last November against other persons, ministers of my government, without even saying anything about me. And suddenly, a month later, the witness remembered the former Prime Minister Samara. Was it Alzheimer's? Where did he get the order? Who was the transmitter? It's extraterrestrial what you've done, not what I'm saying. Let's get to know each other. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And all this without any proof, only with speculation submitted by the witnesses that the former Vice-President of "NOVARTIS" owed everyone. Think, they made an entire case, they didn't even think about crossing these, unfounded and vulgar. They didn't want to establish any charges. They just wanted to smash faces. The most amazing thing is that Mr. Froze has never met him in private. I have seen him twice in my life as President of the Pharmaco-industrial Association, along with representatives of twelve other multinational companies and three ministers of mine in front of the cameras. One of the two even at an event by the Greek-German Chamber of Commerce, in the presence of Merkel, in Hilton, and the one in front of cameras. Mr. Tsipras and your Ministers, tell me how many times have you met with Mr. Froze and in public and in particular? Aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They arrived in front of the lousy spot after spreading that my name, supposedly, is also involved in the FBI investigation. But the evidence he sent them twice so far doesn't speak a word or an insinuation about me. There's not even my name. They just asked the FBI if they could use the FBI's investigation for alleged involvement of me and six other political persons, just to have my name. Why? For the known sludge in the fan. And now Mr. Papagelopoulos, Minister for Justice of the SYRIZA, and in New Democracy, please, Commander of the NDP, why didn't the FBI sue? But because the FBI didn't say a word about me, Mr. Papagelopoulos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You and Mrs. Tulupaki gave my name to the FBI, trying to get me into trouble. And one more thing for Mr. Papagelopoulos. Today he had the courage, in this House, to talk about para-state. If he wants to ask the judges who they think is paranoid today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Their only motive was to smash faces, which is also demonstrated by the fact that they just heard from the first witness, at the beginning of November, the Minister's name, did not send it here to the House without delay as they should have. They did not immediately ask the obvious then: are other politicians involved? And yet, when they heard the names of other Ministers throughout November, they still did not send the case to the House without delay. And when they heard my name at the beginning of December or Mr. Pikramenos's name a few days later, they still didn't send the case to the House without delay. For three months they've been gathering unreliable statements and they didn't think they'd cross-check anything. They did not call on the Vice-President of NOVARTIS to confirm or disprove. They didn't even examine him, they didn't care. They wanted only the sludge in the fan. All these personalities, ladies and gentlemen - and I want your attention here - all these incredible things for the judicial officers to do without the pressure and guidance of their political leaders, I exclude that. As I said, the whole case has on it the fingerprints of the two main political leaders who set up this building and who knew it and who talked about it before the false witnesses were found. I'm talking about Tsipras and Papagelopoulos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I can tell you a lot more about such strange and comic-tragic things, such as the time when my Member of State and adviser, Chrysanth Lazarides, with the other Lazaridis, the president of the stock market, got involved. In my village, they say this was written on the goon, that is, on the knee. They're statements of the joke. Also, another example is when they got the dates from Mr. Frozen's supposed appointments with my partners with a difference of one whole year. And one of those supposed appointments is the only one in the entire calendar that manuscripts have been added. Even with each other poor people can't come to terms with each other. I list a lot of those in the lawsuit I filed, and I won't deal with any more now. I would just like to remind you that the issue of protected witnesses was raised by our government in 2014, with SYRIZA denounced and voted against. We paved the way for political corruption. We would not, of course, have done so if we had intended to share, or if we had been involved. It was another reform that we dared and SYRIZA then fought it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And today he's trying to implement a law that he voted against against those who built him, that is, against us. But he doesn't even apply him. He's breaking up with him. Because in that law it was predicted that protected witnesses could not be persons involved in the case or have the same benefit, precisely so that no one could blackmail the witnesses. And here, however, people who seem to be involved and benefiting from the case were used. How do we know? First of all, it has been said. We were revealed by the current State Secretary for Health, who declared that he knows them, while nobody should know them. And another member of the government, the Minister of Justice, the inspired ideological Mr. Papagelopoulos, before the case arrives in the House, declared that it is the biggest scandal from a recommendation from the Greek state. He was also aware of the case. One evidence minister knew the protected witnesses and the other witness minister knew the file and had made the decision. And so unwittingly began to reveal what really happened. So there has been the greatest political preparation from a recommendation from a Greek state and you yourself have done it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will repeat something very important. If you don't have any doubts, you're out of your mind. Your mouthphone, the "DOCUMENTO" of your own, completely identified with you Vaxebane, was released on Sunday February 4th, on Sunday of the great rally, presenting - be careful - the last testimony of the falsehoods that was to be made on Sunday night. In other words, the newspaper had closed since last Friday - Mr Venizelos rightly said - to be released on the stand on Saturday afternoon and his authors knew from the day before what witnesses were going to deposit two 24 hours later, in other words on Sunday evening. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They knew both supposedly unknown witnesses and their statements before they were made. To understand: the so-called unknown protected witnesses already know both Ministers, but he knows them, too, and Vaxebanes, who knows more than he knows in advance than the ministers, knows what they will testify to. Only we are the ones who, of course, cannot learn. In some cases, the statements appear - be careful - to be ready from time to time. How? In a flash drive. And they go into the case file with another font. You can be sure there will be an expert on this to find out how the testimonies came in a flash drive, who dictated them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because in your rush you've made incredible mistakes. So the case that stood against us is indeed screaming at fingerprints. As far as I'm concerned, I have complete confidence in Greek justice, and that is obvious. If I hadn't trusted justice, I wouldn't have filed a lawsuit. I'm not targeting anyone. I defend myself, as I have the right. Moreover, the Union of Judges and Prosecutors itself in its notice as soon as it expressly stated that a review is also provided for by the judges for their errors or omissions. That is what I am asking for in the case of the three prosecutors who handled the case and committed a pile of unbelievable errors and abuse of power. In addition, there have been at least five complaints from the Union of Judges against the Tsipras Government and with today's six complaints, because the Union has today made you an announcement to Mrs Thanos, as you know. Take those six too to have them. [[At this point Mr Antony Samaras presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It has never happened before, six public complaints against a government by the judges themselves. It's never happened before! Justice is targeted and pressed by the government itself alone, not by the one who defends himself. Besides, what are we sitting around talking about now? Are we, ladies and gentlemen, in Europe, yes or no, where there is the right to a fair trial, yes or no? No one's playing with these things. Did you hear that a few days ago the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg condemned Skopje? You want to know why? Why did Europe condemn them? Because there in Skopje a single citizen was tried with anonymous and missing witnesses. But will you finally align yourself with Skopje, in the name and in the coups? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Take the decision, please. [[At this point Mr Antony Samaras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That's not what's going on in Europe. So I trust in justice, but I trust myself and my innocence and I will prove it. And, as I said, I'll get to the end. This coup must be stopped here. Because, you know, there's no other way. When they smash you and you're out of the way innocent, you know, in the end, you can only clean up for court. But, of course, as Goebbels said, say, say something will stay. This geeky trick they use. The only way I can neutralize it is for me to refer them over what they did to the construction against me. In the fairy tale, let's say, with the running suitcase at Maximo's non-existent parking where a main day is supposedly brought to her in noon with dozens of journalists and cameras on the outside, is supposed to bribe me, without any security checks, in this incredible political aberration, how does anyone have to answer? Besides the witness himself, because someone would probably realize that this whole scene is ridiculous, it changes his next statement on how I was supposedly bribed. He forgets about the running suitcase and invents something else: the money of the official Harvard Project, just because I'm a graduate of this university. What else are we going to hear? Will you tell me which Harvard Project? This is where their lads even presented me with the neonazis, the one I chased. And they call them those who constantly voted with them. All together, Golden Dawn, SYRIZA and ANEL, were those who overthrowed the government in 2014. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's not just the construction. It's also the punctuality. It has arrived today at the point of a newspaper of yours once again throwing mud at my family, even my child, in a case that has been judged in court and which we have been fully vindicated for years. That's where you arrived, and that's where you're gonna pay for it! And because some are crying, because - he says - the charge is 'a gang': I have indeed done about 'a gang' in my complaint and they say that it has to be said, the word 'a gang', by the Civil War. What exactly do they want to say? Is there a gang offense in the Criminal Code, yes or no? There is, as it exists in all the democratic countries of the world. And when people commit this crime in Greece, what exactly should we do? Exclude those who say SYRIZA, what if they get hurt? [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] The only objection I raise is whether this is a 'gang' - with little - or illegal group targeting criminal activities or whether it is a 'gang' - with omega - that is, a cooperative of fools and fools. Well, as you did both are gangs and gangs. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are being referred to in writing as alleged offences. I would refer them to actual crimes which are not being dropped and which are why they will be accounted for when there will be no parliamentary majority in order to provide immunity. My accounts will be opened - I myself will ask for them to be opened - but then theirs will be opened. I am not hiding behind limitations - they are the ones to see where they will hide - I am not hiding behind immunities. But you in my lawsuit will hide behind immunity and for how long? Because at some point the people will know the truth. Protected witnesses will be forced to respond to the contradictions and lies, but then they will also be examined for those not included in the case-file. For example, who is Minister P.C. - I say this to myself as I must say - of the current government, which, while all the other ministers of my own governments have thrown them into dogs, have they been lovingly hiding him behind his initials? Who else had the Vice-President of "NOVARTIS" privately or publicly, previously and later? And of course the Guardian himself will be asked to testify. From this story, remember, others are trying to bleed today and others will find themselves exposed and apologized later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u679	Mr. Samaras, how long do you want to finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u680	As far as is necessary, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, were you denounced by former Prime Minister and put me in five minutes? I'll come down when I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u681	I would ask you very much to tell me how long you want to finish. I didn't push you at all. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u682	You poorly asked then!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u683	The "bad" please keep it very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u684	I don't take it back. You asked!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u685	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u686	I'm serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u687	So you can talk until morning? What do you mean exactly? There is a procedure, Mr President. Please, not authoritarianism on the Chair. Please, too! Understand? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And no suggestions underneath. Okay? You can speak as much as you like, Mr. Samara, but after my leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u688	But the Tsipras government will answer for much more. He will, for example, account for the greatest damage he has done to the Greeks by a recommendation from the Greek state. Really, how much have we lost from SYRIZA? Regglink says 100 billion, because of Tsipras - Baroufakis. Vizer thinks it's double 200 billion. SYRIZA MEP claims that all this is a little too much and that his party only cost 35 billion. And so to take it, with 35 is one and a half times as much as the total pharmacy expenditure in the years 2000-2014. After the next election, there will be just how much money that is. However, there are 16 billion dollars from the government bank portfolio that would go to debt reduction and which, because of you, you have lost the money. You've lost that and you'll answer for it. For the five billion to be charged to the people for the recapitulation of the Greek banks, which had no problem when you arrived and then closed, you will also account for them. For the 5.5 billion that you charged the taxpayer with new loans, due to the government's delays that you are constantly increasing and that is why you will be accountable. For the 46 billion deposits lost by the Greek banks in the first half of the year only, when you brought the capital controls over your days, you will account, as will the fact that in six months you have lost these 46 billion that have never returned. How much is it so far? Seventy-three, minimum. And all this in six months. You and you alone! Not the previous ones. You're the only ones. And that's not all. I'm missing a lot more because it's not the time. But you'll answer for everything. Because, indeed, this is the greatest economic disaster that has caused government from a recommendation from the Greek state. I'm going through non-economic crimes. Would you like the opening of the 2015 borders, which we had closed and you opened them in cooperation with various traffickers' NGOs and then brought one and a half million illegal immigrants? And that's why you'll answer for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u689	You're welcome. Be quiet and listen carefully. Please pay attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u690	I'm sorry, but you don't know what dignity is for a man when he talks. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And opening the border...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u691	But is this a conversation in this House, colleague? Is this a conversation in this House? Say it loud if you're a man. Say that loud talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u692	Come on, please. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u693	Not calmly, Mr President, when he says to me '...'!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u694	I get it, and that's exactly why I made an intervention. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u695	Rescind him in class.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u696	Okay. Please delete from the Minutes. Mr. Colleague, that was unauthorized.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u697	It didn't sound. As far as it was heard, the President heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u698	Okay, I wrote it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u699	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u700	Please calm down. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u701	Stay in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u702	But please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u703	I thank you, however, for showing your best face today, what you really are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u704	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u705	And by opening the border, you gave Erdogan a big pressure weapon, which was not there before, as long as the border was closed. A weapon of pressure and blackmail by Erdogan against Greece, but also against Europe. Every once in a while, Erdogan is threatening us to open the cannabis and send us more. This pressure has brought the country into an extremely difficult position. And for the way you operated the Skopje, encouraging, rewarding the Skopje algorithmism, and that's why you'll account for it. Hundreds of thousands of people went to the streets all over Greece to protest what you're going to do and you deceived them. Spaniards, graphics, ancients. Extreme, too. And Mickey theodorakis answered you on the spot. He told you nationalists, denounce your left-wing fascism. And I ask you, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, He replied a few days later to you by your former MEP, Manolis Glezos, who told you not to think about giving them the name of Macedonia. I ask you: Right-wing Glezos? He answered you the day before yesterday and the Athens Academy did not give the name of Macedonia. Our extreme right and our academy? And me, for attending the rally, far-right, you told me. And Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who covered the rally, was baptized far-right. No, you'd give it to us! This is where you removed Mickey and Glezo, the sacred symbols of the Left, would you leave us outside? Except for me the next day you took me out with set-up liars, I've taken money. By who? It's from the pharmaceuticals. When? When we completely stopped them the party that existed. It was "storched" months ago, but you took it off – one day after the rally, when you saw that you were completely losing control. And for this rush you have also made a series of comedian goofes in the courtesy that you have prepared. For all this, you will answer, both for the sorrow of your opponents and for the division of the people. Yes, for the division of the people you systematically cultivate. You'll remember, of course, what Breech said. When the world rises against the ruling left, it must dismantle the people and elect a new people. Breech, of course, said it ironically, but you seem to have taken it seriously and you want to change the people by dividing them. And that's why you'll answer for it. And for other things, you'll answer. For pressures on justice, on lawlessness in universities, on your own Rouviks evolving in raid battalions, on the left para-state, whose own Minister of Public Order called a para-state when you resigned him. For all this, you'll answer for it. For all these cases, there will also be investigational and pre-examinational courts, if necessary, so that in future no one will ever think of such an abstraction, such irresponsibility, such lies, civilised so ruthlessly, to cause such damage and to try to destroy the rule of law and democracy. And be careful, answering is not a matter of retaliation for those who are suffering today. It is a matter of protecting the civil society so that it will not be at risk from people like you in the future. Except you won't account for standing witnesses. No, you won't account for having witnesses to you with hoods and the evidence against you will be overwhelming, but it will be real evidence. Such hours, through threats and challenges, ladies and gentlemen, for our country we should indeed be united. But you can't build unity with slander and irresponsibility. You don't build unity, smashing your opponents. You don't build unity, dividing people. "Barbarosa" has come to Sounio and you dream of running bags in Maximos. I didn't swear on Tsipras. He called me "German gypsy". He was telling us 'globalers' whispers' and 'Merckelists'. I denounce you and Tsipras for what you've done in the country. You're not the new, what you're presenting. You're the oldest. You're the worst part of the old. You are a modern hurricane for our democracy. While you're staying, you're hurting Greece. And when you leave, you'll answer for what you're doing. Every tragedy - Tsipras should know - has her cleansing. And if there's no God engine, that won't be from a God engine to save you, you'll account for everything. I know that Tsipras hates me a lot and everyone understands why, but you've crossed the line. The slanders you fly into the fan won't touch me. They're going back to Tsipras himself. But they weaken all this and Parliament and democracy. But deep down, that is what you want, and we must not allow you to do so. So we've had enough of you. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Well, you should know. We're not just gonna stop, we're gonna beat you, and in the end you're gonna answer. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You'll account for the practice you've set against me and for the lies you've told in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u706	Mr President, this is too heavy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u707	You will account for the wounds you have opened in our country, you will account for the damage you have done in the country. Well, remember that. You'll answer for everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u708	Mr. Dritsas has the floor, and then Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u709	Thank you, Mr President. Of course we all remember Mr Samaras' abstention in every institutional function of courtesy and dignity when he did not stay in Maximus to welcome and greet Alexis Tsipras who the people elected him to the government. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, today 21 February 2018, forty-five years after 21 February 1973, the day of the uprising in the Legal School, the spring of the Greek youth against fascism, I honestly don't know how you feel since the morning following the course of the debate, but I have to tell you that I am concerned and sad and I am anxious and I am concerned, but I am also convinced. Because particularly in this last recital by Mr Venizelos and Mr Samaras, things seem to make us worry. We're not afraid. Kollias has retired unreturned and will not return to Greek political life. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let the "last betrayal" be held for the graphics and for the extreme right. But also Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Samaras reminded me very much - I am aged, you see - that "school of our partner Pelos Koutoupi" of the YENED. If the older ones remember. Look, the management of scandals in a society and an economy that operates on the basis of extreme profitability competition is a difficult matter. And it's usually not a privileged field for the Left. We all know that. But that can't make the Left close the eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u710	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u711	So here, do we really have to face up to it: Prayer or scandal? And on this question, SYRIZA MPs and ministers, and Paul Paulakis and Dimitris Papagelopoulos, tried to put their mark and give searches.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u712	Mrs Vulture, I will not comment on you today. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u713	Marios Salmas did the same, saying, among others, about the health system that "for decades was a felony of corruption". The same thing was said in the timely question by Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Aygeakis and other Members of Parliament then, in 2011, which no one comments on! The same thing Mr.Sourlas says, the General Secretariat of Transparency and Human Rights, in October 2014, when he says in a report that "it was still found that in a period of unprecedented economic crisis, some social analgesics continue to speculate, and indeed in the sensitive area of health, against those who fight for life and those who try to keep the insurance funds alive".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u714	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. You sound here, too. Please, be quiet and quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u715	In addition to Mr Salma, did you hear from the New Democracy and PASOK a report today or all these days about how to deal with the health scandal that everyone says exists? What kind of scandal is it that none of the political staff of the New Democracy and the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR raises the need to deal with it rather than resorts to the theory of construction? Ladies and gentlemen, the argument about the construction is absolutely funny. Because all the arguments put forward, which are allegedly based on construction and which everyone is repeating all these days, with fundamentally calm logic, can be very easily understood - and a small child - that they have two and three and four alternative interpretations. If all this is true in the way that everyone who wants to talk about a construction is present, then do not be afraid, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition. Because this is not a preparation as you present it. It's a playground! It is so great the naiveness of all you present, that no terrible conspiracy and maker can promote these things. So calm down. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What, though, is the theory of practicing? What's the target? To stop the investigation and undermine the judicial authority it has been investigating for so long. Two years he's been investigating. It didn't start today. What Mr Papafelopoulou said here, Mrs Ryku, is very important for the NOVARTIS scandal. Otherwise, they presented Mrs Ryku's departure from her responsibilities. Here, this unquestionable version - and it cannot be called into question - gives another dimension. It is a tough battle for two years now to take a step forward to investigate such a serious case with such serious competitive interests and mechanisms. Listen, for our part - and that is why the proposal you are hypocritically judging - we do not consider anyone guilty, not only because there is, in general, the presumption of innocence, but because we know exactly as the Left that you cannot incriminate political opponents and criminalize political life as simple as that. But because we have not prepared, because we have not drunken the whole story, we have to respond to the Greek people. What are we gonna do? We're hiding it? Protective witnesses came in that gave these. Justice did this, not by accident, but because the legal framework is undermined by Article 86 of the Constitution and by the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers and binds the hands of Parliament and justice for further investigation. And everyone forgets that, and they speak in the air, in the void. What could the interrogator of corruption do against these testimonies of the protected witnesses? Could he give further inquiries? He couldn't. Obviously, the investigation procedure was not completed, at least in respect of these statements and many others. That's why he sent it to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u716	Please, Mr. Dritsa, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u717	I shall conclude, Mr President. What can the House do? Isn't the field wrong? Couldn't we have any more time to cancel and lift the criminal for the infidelity? We could not have had any other kind of arrangements, and they also worked pro-actively, so that we do not have so much ease in civilian staff managing public wealth so freely, but also, when it comes to, we can have real investigation. Is it, then, necessary - and I will end with this, Mr President - at this historic moment when our country comes out of bankruptcy, because all that we have described has led the country to bankruptcy, a political system that has taken precedence over the choices that have brought the country into bankruptcy, now on the way out of bankruptcy to take back responsibility and privileges to manage what the Greek people have been so hard to bear? Well, no one's guilty. Today's vote and the decision in Parliament does not incriminate anyone, not only because there is the presumption of innocence, but why the current decision does not make a accusation. He's opening a way to investigate. No one asks you to identify yourself with Socrates. From no one we're asking to drink a helmet. From no one! However, anyone who really wants to participate in the new historic phase of Greek history, with the departure of bankruptcy, must answer first, criticize, mainly practically and honestly, to take part in the investigation of this case to the end. And of course no one is a Priori guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u718	Thank you. Please, Mr. Loverdos has the floor. Then the Minister will speak, Mr. Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u719	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as much as I have tried this time, it has become impossible to understand the conditions for which I am invited today to address the National Representation. It is really difficult for me to accept that the Prime Minister with practicable comrades practices has taken over this abominable and unacceptable campaign setting up a plunger at almost the expense of the entire opposition political world. Because he is unable to bear the burden of his failure, because he wants to mislead public opinion and what concerns me is because my strong and resounding three years now my opposition voice is harming him. However, since he has dared this, I warn him and I stress: My voice, as I have formulated my political thinking, my belief, my opinions and my practice as Parliamentary representatives of PASOK and Democratic Incorporation, the voice that stood before him in all matters this three-year time, honestly, with responsibility, but hard for the referendum, for the third memorandum, the committees of inquiry, television licences, the scandals of Saudi Arabia, the shipwreck of the Erdogan visit and, in general, the issues that we have faced, my voice is minimal in order to achieve it. Ladies and gentlemen, from my student years I have had the controversy. I live with her. I live in controversy. From confrontation to dishonesty, however, there is a clear distance. And from the political conflict to the innocence of trying to get you out of politics, there's a burden. That is why, over the years, I have had the ability to distinguish between those who are rotten in the field of politics and to distinguish them immediately. I want him to listen to me today, if possible, the whole country. In political terms, I have been given the whole of it. I've deleted eighteen years of political history. I have been privatised either by the Greek people in the government or in the opposition, and with the sole weapon the constant support of the citizens, I have dealt with the citizens with transparency and with full respect for the public interest and the money of the Greek people. Some scoundrels dared to put their hands on the moral status of my own political path. But this route is getting up and causing them. There will be no mercy, there will be no pity, no apologies to political futures and their partners, to the political zombies on their way to the dumps of history. To finish, from the beginning of my speech, with the veiling accusations, as proved by their publications, with the brutal and slandering lies that have been thrown against me by owl witnesses, ladies and gentlemen, I am here today on a cleansing mission. And these false witnesses I deliver to you immediately. The problem is not only identified, as has been said to a coroner here today, in that false witnesses are likely to be miserable versions with indirect references. This is also an important, serious, major legal and political problem. However, the problem is also identified, especially in the case of depositing incoherent and improperly improperly alleged events. In fact, all they testify is false, false and slanderous. And I'm just explaining. Lie first of all, as far as I'm concerned. I was meeting - he says - with Mr. Frouzi, we exchanged e-mails, we talked to our phones as early as 2009, when I was Minister of Labour. Aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you a little embarrassed, ruthless slander? You are referring to 2009, 2010, 2011, when this man I met after his election as president of the Pharmaceutical Industry Association. He was elected on March 23, 2012, i.e. one and a half months before the 2012 parliamentary elections. There were neither e-mails nor telephone communications nor meetings in journalists' or others' homes or anywhere else or anything else. Where, after all, could I meet with a man I didn't know? For these misery, some people will sit on the stool. That's a lie second. They refer to Gilenya’s invoicing in the summer of 2011. I said it before. Not only did I not know Mr Fruz, but no other person at NoVARTIS. No one else from this company, no one from this company, like any other multinational company, had asked me for anything at all. And when I say anything, I mean nothing. I wasn't even asked for a meeting. They never came near my office or me personally. The only thing that connected me to the multinational corporations was complaints against me and extrajudicial claims and appeals for annulment in the Council of State and complaints, because it harmed my decisions. I'm filing these to the National Representation as a sample. [[Mr Andreas Loverdos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the medicine is concerned, however, beyond the pheasant, slandering and disgusting things that have been said in this regard, I would like to point out that as my political choice to be given to patients it has been excellent. And before I made this choice, exactly did both the National Farmakou Agency and the Ministry's Services, which unanimously submitted the relevant suggestions to me. They did excellent too. Because if you had looked for this case a little, if you knew what it was about, you would find that this medicine was the first to be approved by the European Pharmacos Agency with the sole indication of the use of multiple sclerosis disease. It was the only medicine administered orally, while all previous treatments were injected after induction into hospitals and were, in particular, a medicine that had extremely reduced side effects compared to the previous ones. Now, you miserable slanderers, why did I agree? It's late understanding from one point to the next. You're gonna sit on the stool! Lie third: They say I had dealings with companies. Are you all right, you lousy slanderers? What companies? With those who, once their name has been heard, did they immediately sue or announcements, or with that hooded company who mentioned it as my own company, so that this company itself could issue a specific announcement that it has been working with the Ministry of Health since 1990 and that none of this company has even met me? I'm filing these announcements. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned communications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You fools, no matter where you are! Lying fourth: They say that Mr. Maniadakis was my advisors. Capital liar and that! Neither was there a consultant nor a partner, nor even an ad hoc partner, even in a case of ten minutes, ever categorically! Do you hear that, you lousy engineers and those of you who have bowed down? The first of these was an external partner of the Ministry of Trade, who came to the Ministry of Health when responsibility was transferred. He wasn't coming to the meetings. It was the last wheel of an administrative carriage. From managers down, they didn't come to the meetings when I was a minister. The second of my days, Mr Maniadakis, is the most likely to have been in some of the Wise Men's Committees, as they are called. But I did not need wise, ladies and gentlemen. Comanto, I needed a comando, and I worked in the years I was in this ministry. False fifth: we have reduced prices - there is no objection - but I made exceptions to 'NOVARTIS'. Oceanic lies, athletics, too! From me this company, like all companies, lost tens of millions of euros, all together hundreds, all together billions, because of my policy. This is undeniable and results from the evidence. And the ruthless slanders, the cheeks, the sages, say "yes, they lost, but twelve specific drugs became exceptions". At twelve out of three hundred, seventy, one atoms of this company! But the seven of them, expensively, have continuously reduced my days. Idiots! Also, the two of these, very expensive - we arrived at nine - also showed stable prices for the other three, but with many internal preparations, the vast majority of the preparations also decreased over my days. These are the evidence. And in these so-called epic technical data, there are answers that are posted on the Internet and to summarise them and not to put them before you now. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned posts, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And of course nothing illegal, suspicious or strange was there, because if there was anything, as those who became health ministers know, would have brought it into the objection procedure or would have been seen in a newspaper. Do you hear, miserable people, wherever you are, and their lipsticks, who appear here as supposedly objective researchers? In order to reduce the prices I have sought and imposed, in every way that I have made available, I have made many and continuous efforts. And all these efforts have had the following spectacular results: Look at the information you have all received as Papandreou government in 2009: Pharmaceutical expenditure only on insurance funds, not hospitals and pharmaceutical costs paid by the citizen in his pocket, EUR 5100,000. I delivered it when I left with the April invoice, which was valid until almost the end of the year 2012, at EUR 2.8 billion, that is, almost half. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be clear, we must take each other's responsibilities and know what it says, without the slightest burden on the insured. I didn't have a minute with my policies, and I didn't want to lie in this Chamber! That was the PASOK policy, and no one can ever tarnish it, no matter what it does. Irresponsible, then, unproven, disgusting, capitaly lies from unscrupulous hoodmen! This, and some other things, are still perverting the hooded ones, to which I do not agree to refer any more. But I'm crushing them for word in my lawsuits. Here too, unspeakably, but also reasonably, ladies and gentlemen, one question arises: How did these unrelated false witnesses manage to be protected and indeed by the method of the hood? Because there are other forms of protection. But a mere crossing of information would be enough to reveal the real facts and uncover the miserable lies. First the prisoner: The law requires protection only when something serious and critical is revealed. And the argument that the prosecutors were unable to investigate because of my ministerial status in this case is unstable. And it can't be right because research has been carried out over a long period of time. On November 6, the first false statement was given to me, and not only did the district attorney send the file to the House without delay, but he kept it. And this particular pseudo witness called him back for me after two months. Second inmate: In order to protect a witness, a witness must be at risk. And the question is very simple: Why did they have to be protected? From whom were they at risk or at risk? Was there a fear that two former Prime Ministers and eight former ministers were likely to become death warrants or have they organized something other equal evil? If the hoods protect something or some, it's the same plaiting and gang that got her drunk. That is why I call for the preliminary examination committee to take the hood out of them. It has competence, as I'll tell you soon. Thirdly, since the 2001 Act, which I had voted for as a Member of Parliament, just as the prosecutor for corruption states, it appears that the criminal witnesses have been given simple protection. Affis yesterday, however, we learned that on 9 February 2018, a few days ago, they were given retrospectively and after the file had come to Parliament, the status of a witness of public interest. Everything's been melted, huh? This process, as has been shaped, is messy and illegal and is therefore uncertain and, as such, does not bind the House, ladies and gentlemen. It is not the time for detailed legal analyses, but it is clear that there have been violations of a gross constitution and laws, that everything has been violated. All these lies on the basis of both the substance and only the legal form of the unusable ones are. Cologne, the hood can come out. As administered, exactly as removed. By act of the Preliminary Examination Committee, which is a quasi-prosecutor, it may be removed. Do you have the political courage today to approve the preliminary examination committee in advance to make such an honest decision? Can you as a parliament, as a majority, give such a direction? We will be here to find out who they fear, who shiver the removal of the hood, because I am certainly not the one who fears it. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak without fear, but I speak with passion, because the lies that have been told about me by hooded martyrs are gigantic, because the study with which the government has rushed not only to adopt but also to organise and defend slander is a river, because the illegality in this whole process is carabines. But who are you telling and who are you doing this to? To me? The Minister of Health who was fought by waste and corruption as much as anyone else? To me, for not counting neither personal nor political costs and fighting as much as anyone's health scandals? At my service, together with George Koutrumanis, we have established and introduced e-prescription. Be careful: I am not getting electronic prescribing - the ignorants here drift around and say differently - but we have established a price of medicine based on the three lowest prices in the European Union, but as was derived from the official sources alone. There were at least two invoices per year, which led to undervaluation, due to high prices previously in existence since 2009. Be careful: My office created EOPY, which controlled the product of e-prescription. Without the EEA, it would be unreasonable to prescribe the eight separately and among them non-cooperating insurance funds - health branches. When I was still Minister of Labour, with Law 3816/2010, we finally restored the positive list of medicines, with an entry fee of EUR 250 million into the funds by a single act. In my own country we had introduced the rebate, namely the compulsory reductions, which were made to these pharmaceuticals, 4% initially and 9% thereafter. My office was established in 2012, the claw back, i.e. the system of closed budgets. If one were to exceed the threshold of the EEA and the Ministry, the companies would not be paid beyond that limit. It's an unfair measure. So I told the House when I introduced it. Unjust measure, but necessary, since the doctors of excessively prescribing were not ‘wrapped’. And much more has happened, such as the reference to justice and discipline, such as the reference - and here I am heard by some from the Chamber - a particular public hospital pharmacist in which money was found from NOVARTIS in 2011 and went to jail. Then the war against me from all those who were affected was rabies. But I never feared them, just like I'm not afraid of the gang now. I will crush all those who dared to question my political and personal reputation. And of course I must recall that those policies that I have defended, which I voted for, then SYRIZA did not only vote against them in the House, but fought them in an excessively vocal manner, shouting out, and defending the people's cheap medicine - that is what they said - which was extremely expensive in those days. The most rabies attacking me, in fact, was made for the EPPY. For a month, I didn't have a desk in no ministry building. It was you and half the New Democracy, who had taken over the Ministry's buildings for one month. From the first moment we had a fight for the EEA, for the generics and for the rest of you we had across the street. What happened and what I mentioned was PASOK’s work in health and even in difficult times. It's an in vain work you're trying to black out. And you're trying because you can't stand comparison. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, they are old, registered and well-known SYRIZA's efforts against me. Since the first moment of the crisis, they manifested themselves when the Papandreou government undertook to manage the crisis itself and took the first tough measures and I was in the front line. When I announced here in the Chamber my successful negotiation for the EKRF, for the widow's pensions, the current Prime Minister from there called on me to resign and go to the demonstrations. That's what he was telling me. He'll remember that, I imagine. I was going to the protests to become a Prime Minister and to abolish what we defended as life itself has proved. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And that's not what's going on here in the House. Their words became prejudiced by SYRIZA representatives. Dimitris Konstantopoulos and Theodoros Maxouras were found in the hospital, with broken heads and hands of pilgrims. intended for me, in Saints Anargyros, not at an event of the Ministry of Health, at a party event. Modern Godzamanies! That's what we told you then. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The Prime Minister and the Vice-Presidents of the Government, Pangalos - Venizelos, the ministers, the former President of Parliament, Mr Kaklamanis, are in the same position as members of our party. In Faliro, the secretary of Faliro’s organization burned his offices and cars and threatened him. One target you've been targeting, which I've been talking about ever since. The tramps were meant to stop our communication with the citizens, to be able to contact the citizens only through television, and we, as traitors, Pinochet, Tsolacoglou and as you say, who speak only from a distance, cannot be approached and thus lose the focus of our power that the citizens were. And we're not done here to reach the bandages and knits today. After the September 2015 elections, leaders SYRIZA - ANEL - both - tried to make face control, impose control on PASOK and DISY, to make specifications for those who harm them. Personally - the whole Chamber knows - I have been on their pro-government front pages too many times. They tried to be the ones who would shape the conditions of the centre-left and centre and when they realized that PASOK and Democratic Integration not only survived, but their electoral forces increased - and in the September 2015 elections, but today this is seen from everywhere, at the expense of their own electoral percentages - all they were left, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it was to try to apply its methods - I write it in capital letters and I put it in in introductory words - "TELL OF LIGHT" against us, to put us out of politics - also in capital and in in introductory words - "NEVER TAKE ABOUT ANY WAY"". The method and terms known for this method. These are the conditions that come from the darkest pages of the 20th century European history to describe the gang's practices today. Because you - those who are, of course, involved in gang games - are not able to look at us in the eyes, as we are looking at you. Look and speak through the buttonholes of a hood, and that makes you freaky, you too, who adopt the misery and those who cut them out, doing a good deal with the authorities, as one of the hoodiers tells his associates. But be sure that this last instrument of political extermination, in which you have been fleeing, will not break my deep and firm relationship with the citizens. I have also been trusted in the years of my political presence that I have honoured, honored, and respect as the daughter of an eye that trusts me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u720	Mr. Colleague, how long do you want to finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u721	The course of SYRIZA - ANEL is a course...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u722	Can you answer me, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u723	Yes, Mr President, I can answer that. I begged you at the Conference of Presidents, knowing the procedures from time to time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u724	Speak for an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u725	...to devote two meetings to this House, you said "yes"...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u726	Please, please, not in the past...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u727	...you brought her to a meeting today in summary procedures and you're trying to shut down the mouth of those who speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u728	Already denounce us. Mr. Loverdo, please leave this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u729	...and they say about gang tactics. So I still need five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u730	I respect both your nervousness and your embarrassment, and I respect you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u731	You're awkward and discriminatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u732	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u733	...and fully responsible for the fact that you've been doing canned procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u734	What do you mean 'conservative'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u735	You were told with all the details that we need more time...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u736	You had him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u737	You promised him the whole process...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u738	I promised him. Aren't we keeping him? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u739	...and condensed him at a meeting. I do not allow you to interrupt my thoughts. I ask you five more minutes and you will give them to me, as has happened to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u740	Because you're asking me, of course, we'll give it to you, but I won't let you...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u741	You are partisan President of the majority and not ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u742	All right, Mr. Loverdos, you've said this with all the opportunities for three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u743	So please stop...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u744	Five minutes, you got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u745	You said, I told you, I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u746	You'll have the six-minute. There is no such problem. Nervousness doesn't need to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u747	I'm on my way to finish my thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u748	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u749	I thought you might be sure that this last instrument of extermination, in which you were fleeing, will not break the relationship I have with the citizens, who have trusted me, which I have shown over all these years and which I respect and honour. But your course is a course from defeat to defeat and as such will continue with the case of "NOVARTIS". But here, your defeat will not only be political. The gangbangers and the paid, their paid guns, will pay the price for both their criminal and civil liability and pay expensive. They also made two capital errors: firstly, it is the well-known sketch of this story and secondly, as far as I am concerned, they did not properly calculate the man whom they chose to hit and correct. What, so, led the comrades, his handlers to have such a ridiculous, obscene and repulsive construction? Is the arrogance and intoxication of power, or is corruption by fear of the loss of power? Apparently, the gangbangers wanted to get us into a few months' adventure until the last judge and the last citizen perceived their knit, but they have won politically against anti-Population. As has been pointed out, however, there is no question that they have opened up to a precedent for communication, so they will also fail today. Because this was how three years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL went: From the sketching of the memorials and the referendum, from the elections and the parallel program, from the examinations and televisions to the present day, from the Greek-Turkish, Skopje and "NOVARTIS". To avoid a political deadlock - I have been constantly saying for months in my speeches - which they have created, create a new political deadlock and so on. That is why the construction that seeks to transform politics into a criminal field, to those who fear the institutions and humiliate them, to the cynical and uncovered political exploitation of the case there are responsibilities that will be attributed. This unholy, cold deception of Greek citizens will reveal with my action, starting from today, but also in the next few days. I am putting my first complaint against the three hooded and all responsible moral surgeons, then sues against other natural and moral perpetrators and, finally, actions for slandering. But tomorrow, I'll do another thing. I will ask the corruption prosecutor to open my accounts - it is a matter of hours to finish this - and then I will devote a piece of my daily activity to pay every gangster the price of his crimes. No political, no one, no matter how well-established it is, can complete the crimes you have put in place, crimes directed against political opponents, against the Greek people, on the institutions that have been trampled and in the end democracy. For these reasons, by closing down, ladies and gentlemen, I directly blame the Prime Minister as an orchestra of the most horrendous knit, who had announced it for months with too many public interventions. I blame the bells and the loaded guns of this man who illegally assessed the contents of a case and challenged the development of the case. Finally, I blame all those who organized or reproduced this vile knit and brutally implicated even justice. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in matters of moral order, I have never had a second thought, which is why I have not faced any moral dilemma on my political path. The straight path I chose and today I'd pick him again. My political honour and reputation have guaranteed them and shaped my actions. No para-state methodology, no pseudo witness will be able to touch me. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to say that this case is not just a wound. It is an old cyclone for our country, because the particular plaiting and the conditions under which it was unfolded reveal the real, except for the hideous face of some, but mainly reveal the true face of the Greek Prime Minister. To each man there is a limit, but not to the individual, as proved. From this post, giants have passed, and moderate ones have passed. But then, from today's Prime Minister, one with a characteristic of old humanity will have passed. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case one is the final crisis and one final conclusion: Couscoconuts are wet, Tsipras speaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u750	You've crossed every line!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u751	Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Theonas, don't react, please. You have heard about the twenty-seven times the "gangorite", the "gang-gang-gang". As the time passes, things are quieter. Easy! The Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, has the floor and then Mr. Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u752	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend in my speech today to comment on the positions of those who were alleged to be involved in this matter, the nine citizens and colleagues who spoke from the Step. But some things go beyond every limit. It is an insult, ladies and gentlemen, to a democratically elected government to identify it with Collia and the regime of 21 April. It is abusive not only to this democratically elected government, but also to the thousands of left-wing fighters who the regime of April 21st, Collias and the king have thrown into the vaginas of the junta, the sites of exile and the EBA to be tortured.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u753	Learn history!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u754	And it is also double resentment against those fighters of the anti-Declaratory struggle, who are here today, on the benches of the Left and who have fought for democracy and freedom! He's a hybrid!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u755	Collis was the prosecutor in the Lambraki case. Learn history!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u756	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u757	And so much more, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u758	He was a prosecutor, Collis, in Lambrakis. Mr. Condonis can learn history.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u759	Mr. Venizelo, please don't interfere. It's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u760	Mr. Condonis will learn history!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u761	It was from another womb, Collis. It's none of your business. Don't interfere, please. Okay. We've come to an understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u762	And so, ladies and gentlemen, it is a problem for the procedure itself, but also for the allegations put forward here, the launching of threats - and in this way, the market way - against the Prime Minister and the threats to special courts, which are indeed combined - be careful - with fingerprints, i.e. with facts. What are these facts, which we heard here by the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, who went through threats, fantasies, speculation and combinations of cases with journalistic investigations and publications? What does the government have to do with these things? Did we hear facts about which any government could resign? However, this style and content of the speeches, in the end, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrates absolute weakness and panic in the face of a judicial and prosecutorial investigation. Mr Samaras threatened with a special court even for the Macedonian, when the government is following the national line, namely the line drawn up by the interim agreement, after Bucharest and continues with the effort that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now doing. Is Mr. Samaras threatening the Prime Minister for this? Whether it was here in an absolute misconduct or there is another issue within the New Democracy, which Mr Samaras is trying to raise. We understand a lot more than he says. Ladies and gentlemen, the question arises as follows: do we have a scandal or a construction? So I would say that for an international scandal, which employs many countries, some people want to tell us that in Greece nothing has happened and that all justice is investigating and that is currently taking part in the debate as material, by the competent prosecutor, it is the government. The whole world, the whole world is looking for this international scandal, and here some people were inspired to tell us that it is a construction. That's great! If you want anything more to say, say it. It'll be very interesting. Looking for the legal classes of so many states to find the end to this problem and here to tell us that it is a construction. But this is where you come into conflict with numbers and reality. I do not want to refer to the same figures as Mr Paulakis has presented. I will tell you this: Only extra-private expenditure in 2000 was EUR 1,278,000 and in 2009 was EUR 5,108.000.000. Is that what you're concerned with? How did we get to this astronomical number from 2000 to 2009? How did we, ladies and gentlemen, get public expenditure on GDP by 0.9% in 2000 and 2010 to 2.1% when the European Union is 1%? What's that? Is this a scandal or a construction? It's a scandal. And it's scandalous because you say it yourself. New Democracy and PASOK officials say it's a scandal. However, they also call it New Democracy MPs, who had distanced themselves from their party in 2011 and put a timely question to the previous speaker, Mr. Loverdos, and told him that since 2001 there has been a great deal of food with supplies. He was told, and something more important, that no planned tenders had been carried out for five and seven years. And they were also telling him something important: that in these times of the memorandum the debts and debts of hospitals due to this misery are increased by 200 million euros a month. Mrs Bakoyannis was right to say that - Mr Aygeakis and three other Members at the time, who had been deleted from the New Democracy. What is that, ladies and gentlemen? Is it a craft or is it a scandal? Because if it is a construction, you of the New Democracy should contact Mr. Aygeakis, the secretary of your party first and foremost. So it is scandalous and even first grade! Mrs Bakoyannis was right, in an interview with Mrs Bakoyannis FM at those days she asked for a committee of inquiry. Committee of Inquiry! And you blame us now because a Special Parliamentary Committee will be set up as soon as the evidence has been obtained from the prosecutor's office. You're telling us there's a construction? See what you guys were talking about. Look what you described them nicely. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is a scandal and, first degree, with hundreds of doctors involved and possibly political persons. I'm probably saying, because the case is under way and is being investigated. And I hope that for most people, if not all, their innocence will be proved. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a lot of talk of the government driving justice. These are all those, ladies and gentlemen, who have accused the government of intervening in justice, because justice does not do her the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u763	Minister, please finish in two, three minutes. No more. Please collect your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u764	You were telling us some time ago that we are institutionally derailed because we are interfering with the work of justice and pressing for justice. What are you telling us today? You tell us that justice is being manipulated by the government. What's the matter with both of you? Or it's justice that you described a few days ago, a few weeks ago, or ultimately justice isn't that, and it's manipulative. Will you end up at a point? Because psalmology and unproven claims have a limit. But to say alpha one day and omega the other, it goes too far, ladies and gentlemen! What I would like to stress, however, is the objections which have been raised in order to forward the case-file. Ladies and gentlemen, today at the National Representation - and give me some time, Mr President, to present this information - I bring two procedural documents. Please note the dates: On December 13, 2013, the Prosecutor's Prosecutor at the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor with a request for waiver of immunity from membership of the Government. On January 9, 2014, the case-file is returned by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay to the Prosecutors of Athens for completion. On 24 January 2014, it shall be forwarded again to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, who shall now forward it to the Ministry of Justice. On February 10, 2014, it is forwarded by the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. On April 8, 2014, two months later, the Minister of Justice of the Government of Samaras, Mr Athanasios, not only does not transmit the file to the House, but sends it back to the prosecutor. And our government is being blamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u765	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u766	On unacceptable grounds. Anyway, Ice Bay Attorney's sending her back and what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u767	Just say the word, Minister, for people to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u768	What reason, Mr. Athanasios? Did you have any right of reason to send back the case file? And you're accusing us of not sending the documents to Parliament without delay when you did this two months later? And you're even sending, as if you're a prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, the case-file back? Where did these things come from, honourable Members? Where did they hear them? And is the government accused of not doing what the Constitution says without delay? The worst in this case do you know what it is? That in the end the defendant was convicted by a court of law. And worse is the other thing I will tell you: On 18 March 2014 by the corruption prosecutors, it is sent to the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow forensics. What was that case-file? The submarines. And on Monday, May 5, 2014, it was received by the Minister's protocol, while it was sent from April 30, to the Ministry's protocol. Do you know, after all, when it was sent to the House on May 5 that seems to be recorded in the Minister's protocol? On May 30, 2014, Friday night.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u769	Please close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u770	It passes on to the protocol of the Parliament on June 4, 2014, when the parliament is now closing and deleting the offence. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the finest of the Samara - Venizelos government. Illegality and parasitic medals! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u771	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u772	Ladies and gentlemen, at this time the judges and prosecutors, who do their job, and the witnesses, are under attack. A few days ago she filed the appeal, in her 'SIEMENS' case, a witness you all remember. Mr. Spyridon Kaloudes. Who was Mr. Spyridon Kaloudes? Treasury of PASOK and board member of OTE's board of directors, posted by the then government of Simitis. And what did Mr. Kaloudi testify? Everything he'd been saying for ten years about Chukatos' bags was a lie. And finally the money went to the party funds. The trial was filed by Mr. Avgerinos. Do you know why I mention this? I do not mention it in order to demonstrate the Tsukata party, but to remind you of the attacks that were taken by the particular Christophores who then testified as a witness and went out and you of the New Democracy and you of PASOK. Why? Because he said about the black funds, about the money of Tsukatos and the relationships of Christoforakos with the Mitsotakis family. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You were crazy to take her out! You do the same with the witnesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u773	Please, Minister, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u774	I'm done, Mr. President. If, ladies and gentlemen, something remains of all this controversy, it is a good thing. You should all be voting in favour of the proposal for a constitutional revision of the SYRIZA to abolish the shameful article, which establishes a system of immunity, immunity and favorability for political persons. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] To abolish the specific article of the Constitution and the law 'no duty of Ministers', which rests there. And we are telling you something, ladies and gentlemen, in reply to Mr Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u775	You're welcome, Minister. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u776	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u777	You've said it too many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u778	We are telling you that this constitutional review and the lack of a protective framework will be implemented first and foremost for the SYRIZA Government. Because the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras and the ministers of SYRIZA are not afraid, we need no protection, no limitations or special status! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u779	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u780	I too ask for the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u781	Please. There are no personalities. We have said so in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u782	How are they not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u783	Today's debate is just about people and they were wrongly given - I say it quite rightly - beforehand. Only if someone's being exaggerated. No one was insulted. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u784	Mr President, listen first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u785	No, Mr. Athanasios. You have intervened since the morning three times. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u786	Mr President, this House is not bound by the Conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u787	I am now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u788	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u789	Please, sit down right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u790	Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u791	Please, sit down right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u792	Mr President, does he not have the right to speak on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u793	Do you hear what I'm saying? The procedure is specific. And now Mrs. Gennamas will speak. Please, I invite her to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u794	Mr President, this House is not bound by the Conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u795	Please. The House has decided on the procedure. He's made up his mind since the morning. Today you'll be calm, we'll be calm, we'll be very patient and we'll go pretty late at night. This concerns everyone, the heads of parties, who do not want to be upset to address me for any reason. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u796	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u797	Sit down, Mr. Athanasios. Please! You don't have a special place in here. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u798	The Minister reported inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u799	You weren't surreptitious. And badly since this morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u800	You too are personally violating the Rules of Procedure in too many provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u801	Excuse me, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u802	You are the special president who violates the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u803	Mr. Athanasios, please, sit down. I have told you on another occasion, whoever doesn't want, is reproaching the President and moving forward with the process. I told you. While I'm at the seat, I'm fair and I'm trying very hard to keep the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u804	Mr. Contonis said inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u805	There has been a big mistake since this morning, but I cannot preside over twenty-four hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u806	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u807	And you know what this is because you have intervened since the morning. You did two hours in procedural delay. That's your right. Please, therefore, in a process which has only one person - the current procedure is a special procedure - it means no personal matter, only if anyone is insulted. Unfortunately, since this morning, under the responsibility of the Bureau - I take responsibility and if others were up here - the reason was given and a lot of time was consumed in the name of the staff, because obviously there were different opinions among the speakers. These are unacceptable things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u808	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u809	Mr. Athanasios, you'll sit down and please don't get back up until the meeting is over unless you're overreacted, which I hope no one will.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u810	However, Mr President, in a number of cases you are violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u811	Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor. Excuse me for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u812	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that is happening all day and in the Chamber and in society is whether the issue we are discussing is a scandal or a process. But there is, in fact, no dilemma, because both are true. There is a scandal in the development of pharmaceutical expenditure and there is a government service with a manifest operation to smash its political opponents. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The choice of time, the choice of political persons, the ruthless omission of others, the statements by Mr Tsipras and government officials before and after the start of this issue, the ruthless procedural violations, the quality of the testimonial testimonies, all of this and others show the existence of a conspiracy. Yesterday, the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow completely exposed you. The witnesses on whom it was based exclusively to set up the whole set were subjected to a simple protection regime. And oh of the miracle, they were upgraded to protected witnesses of public interest only after the outcry and saliva arose. This proves how methodical and treacherous you are setting up the entire construction. We, like every honest citizen, are interested in the truth to shine. We are interested in identifying any institutional gaps that allow for the dismantling of public money so that they can be corrected and do not recur in the future. We are interested in identifying those scientists who exploited these gaps and enriched them at the expense of the public. We are interested, in short, in the substance of the matter. But Mr. Tsipras is not interested in all of this. If it were interested, it would have been possible for full control and transparency, without selective exceptions and without, once again, favourable, discreet treatment of the 2004-2009 New Democracy governance period, when the expenditure was derailed. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Why, do you do that, Mr. Tsipras? We've caused you too many times here in this House, from this Step. Have you made commitments, and if so, to whom? You must finally come here and give answers. I would also like to say something at this point to Mr Mitsotakis. Mr. Mitsotakis, you accept and we accept that there is a construction. Do you accept, however, that there is a scandal, yes or no, in the case of pharmaceutical expenditure and NOVARTIS? And, by the way, I heard the position of Chief of Officerial Responsibility for changing the law "Absolute responsibility of the Ministers". Of course! No objections! What does that mean? It means that a change in the constitution is needed. And what does that mean? This requires wider consultation. Do you really, Mr Mitsotakis, think that this wider understanding can be achieved, particularly in this climate? If you believe it, we together can discuss a mini-review of basic provisions, that is, those that have fully matured the idea of having to be reviewed. Mr. Tsipras, you have the political advantage of the scandal. Your glance is only about the party benefits you can produce, not what benefits the country, but what benefits you. That is why you have excluded the investigation of your own responsibilities, your ministers, of your own period. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, this evening's debate is taking place in a very heavy, extremely negative atmosphere, in a very toxic climate, with public opinion, again, in confusion with your sole responsibility. The country is at a critical turning point. She's being prosecuted with the nipple you've worn in her throat. Turkey is stepping up its provocativeness in the Aegean and Cyprus, violating international treaties and international law. Any looseness on the part of the government, any inactivity, can cause serious harm to our national interests. The Skopje issue? Instead of pursuing national understanding and shaping a national line, what have you tried to do? You tried to divide your political opponents and of course the Greek people. And today we are faced with the risk of'salinisation' of the solution, which will create - and remember - much greater problems in the future than it seems to be trying to resolve. In the economy? It has been made clear that the end of the programme in no way means a definitive and secure exit from the crisis. It concludes the memorandum for our partners. It's not over for us. Besides, you are committed in advance for a memorandum after the memorandum. You have legislated new cuts in pensions and taxfree, you have transferred public wealth, you have committed yourself to high primary surpluses. Now what are you doing? You confessed. You are simply negotiating the kind of committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today once again confronted with a political process with an orchestra by Mr Tsipras and his ministers. And what kind of a coincidence? Unbelievable! The former commander of the NDP, under the government of New Democracy, and of course his guardians in justice are the ones who are today moving the strings. I know that some good-faithed people may ask us 'good all of this, but this reveals such a serious story and you are concerned only with the guys'? 'No' we're answering. We never denied the investigation. First, we say everything in the light, but unaffected, justice to do its job, because we don't lift a fly in our sword. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We want more than anyone to shine the truth, but this is done with the smooth functioning of the institutions, without interference in justice, without suggestions, without the unconstitutional involvement of ministers, without overstatement and cooperation with the yellow press, without ex-institutional factors. And listen and take good care, because the more you violate the institutions, the more you break the distinction of powers, the more you put democracy at risk. The only winner of this whole story is the far right and the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It is exactly the same logic that led to the squares of rage and created this criminal organization. It is the same dangerous logic that leads to systemic perceptions of the press: 'Now it is time to conquer power, because we are in the government, but we have not conquered power as we would like'. After the picture presented today by the House, I would like to stress that we will not allow Greece and the House to fall back into the pit again. As long as it passes through our hand, we will not allow the political life of the place Roman arena to become. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, the tough competition of the major pharmaceutical industries extends to every relevant area, the promotion of market preparations, the exclusion of competitors, favourable pricing, not only in Greece, but in many countries around the world, but - and this should not escape anyone - research is international and started by the US authorities. The "NOVARTIS" scandal has, in fact, been paid very dearly by Greece, the Greeks themselves. So research in depth from justice to its true dimensions. The specific responsibility of NOVARTIS should be established without further delay and all legal actions should be taken against the company in order to ensure the compensation of the State. In addition, because we need, in addition to the full conclusion of the case, to look at the substance of the matter with regard to modernisation and tightening up, even more so, the institutional framework on medicine, I would like to put forward two specific proposals today: Firstly, I call on the Minister of Economy and Development and the Minister of Health, as they have the right to the law, but also an obligation to the Greek people, to immediately ask the Competition Committee to examine the smooth functioning of competition in the Greek drug market and to indicate the measures to be taken by the State. Anyone who applies the anti-competitive behaviours, for which the market helps, suffers the severe sanctions and pays the high fines imposed in such cases. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Secondly, as well as research for yesterday, we must look forward, prepare for the future. That is why I have tabled a proposal to the President of this House today under Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure to set up a parliamentary committee to examine the purchase of medicinal products and pharmaceuticals in Greece, from now on and for the next decade, with special reference to the protection, at last, of the Greek pharmaceutical industry, which is also affected by the unfair practices of multinational colossal practices. I put the proposal which I sent to the President of Parliament in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Fotini Gennamata presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA may now be acting as a crusader of transparency, but reality is different. Greek justice with basic procedures and possibilities, with which we equipped it, can cooperate with the international authorities and reveal the practices of the multinational pharmaceutical industry, the underground transactions and corruption associated with them. So, gentlemen of the government, do you want to see the truth, or do you want to cover it up? Because, as far as we are concerned, it is the one that, at unprecedented political cost, took the initiative of finally putting a class in the economic and financial sizes of the pharmaceutical market. No one is entitled to overlook our work, what we have offered in the country, especially in the worst economic crisis that others have created. No one is entitled to hide the truth, the unsolved truth of the numbers. I table the course of the cost of the medicine once again in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini Gennamata presents for the minutes the abovementioned chart, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] What do these numbers say? In 2004, PASOK delivered the public pharmaceutical expenditure to EUR 2.4 billion. It has adopted cost-restraint measures, in particular the list of medicines and the significant restrictions on prescribing to specialist doctors for special examinations. What did the New Democracy government do? He then abolished the list and the restrictions, left his multinational drug unaccompanied. The result? Expenditure has risen to a record of over 5 billion, which is more than doubled in just four years, the largest cost of the medicine throughout Europe at that time. And that was just one section, just one aspect of the country's generalised budgetary collapse in the period 2004-2009, which brings the signature of the New Democracy wide. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr President, I would like some more time. And then in the pit of the first memorial period PASOK was the only political force that decided to promote the necessary reforms, to change the established practices, to clash with the established interests in the drug field. In time of record, against reaction, we created methodically and persistently the foundations of a healthy drug framework in Greece. It was the PASOK Government that reorganised the invoicing regime of medicines, created e-prescription, the Prices Watch for supplies, brought about a revolution by creating unprecedented conditions of transparency and accountability for all the doctors involved in the market, pharmacists, warehouses, industries. It was also the PASOK Government, which set up the EEAS and set up infringement control mechanisms, that introduced the bilingual system to hospitals, that changed the invoicing procedure. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about tangible, measurable interventions which have led to the savings of billions of euros. We broke up the polyethnic party. We with our own people, our executives, who you've targeted today, have reduced the margins of profit, we've closed the ramifications of interlocutory. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we are not all the same. And we are proud of what we have offered and of what we have done, not in the words, but in the works that some people today see as self-evident in their everyday lives. Ladies and gentlemen, does the question of what SYRIZA did when all this happened? He was fighting and voting against all our modernist interventions, struggling with the big pharmaceutical interests and the medical complexes, and Mr. Tsipras was talking to us about lost jobs and various other demons. He is just the same ideoleptic, fearful, anti-reform SYRIZA, who is now playing his own game in health, closes eyes to the disorganization of the National Health System and the problems they accumulate. SYRIZA, who didn't just improve anything in the drug field, but failed even to manage the mechanisms that we created. We are talking about a dangerous government that did not succeed or did not want to invoice the drugs in 2015 in time. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] However, the ministers responsible for all this frugality are not included in the majority proposal. They are clean, transparent in advance, even with the signature of some of them. He has not sweated any ears for those who have forgotten - I ask - for months to issue the 2015 price report, so that de facto some would earn millions, because the prices of their medicines would be reduced. SYRIZA, therefore, covers his own responsibilities and omissions in both the field and the medicine and health. You habitually insist on covering up responsibilities and responsibility. Especially in the field of medicine you have timeless, horizontal, selective memory gaps. Why has the matter not yet come to the Health Committee of Inquiry? One year this committee is working, and yet whenever the debate reaches the drug there is a suspicious silence. There is ultimately a protected period, a protected Prime Minister and a protected Minister. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This is the reality and you have been taken by the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for the government there are still honest judges and prosecutors, unaffected and independent. There are control mechanisms which can lead to the disclosure of those responsible with objectivity, with wisdom and measure. We, as far as we are concerned, will make a decisive contribution to revealing the truth both in the case of "NOVARTIS" and in the form that you are trying to set up around it, to reveal your organized plan, your grey propaganda that distorts the facts, the evidence, compose a narrative that has nothing to do with reality. We, ladies and gentlemen, call for a full investigation of the case. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] That is why we say 'yes' to the setting up of a Special Parliamentary Committee with full investigation tasks, which will be able to investigate in depth the case for everyone and for all, so that the construction can finally be revealed, so that the truth can come to light, so that no members of PASOK can remain unjustified and the progressive democratic party. So clear words, gentlemen of the government. And I'm asking, and we've been asking all day, but we haven't got an answer: What kind of preliminary interrogation are you going to do? But you say in the agenda, but you say in the motion for a resolution. It is not the main role of this committee to monitor this limitation, as you suggest in your text. And at the bottom of our writing, we don't care about derogating, we're interested in seeing the substance of the case. For us, therefore, the full and in-depth passage of this story is a prerequisite. The so-called protected witnesses will come and testify to the committee of the House, and even confront them with the persons mentioned. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The MPs will be informed of all correspondence and contacts between the Greek authorities and the US authorities. We must immediately stop any involvement of ministers and external actors in the work of justice. We say 'yes' in every process of uncovering the truth, in every fair and objective investigation without stars and footnotes. Because we believe in the rule of law, justice and democracy. For exactly the same reasons we say 'no' to a fake committee, which, by express procedure, hides the substance of the case because nothing comes out against SYRIZA - ANEL politicians, in rape the presumption of innocence of the reported persons to serve the planned pogrom against them. We say 'no' to 'fast track parliamentary courts without object', just to create impressions. And I repeat: throughout the day we have not received a commitment from the official lips about what kind of pre-examination this House is voting today. Prime Minister, tonight you're slapping the prosecutors, the angels of the cleansing, but you're not conscious of your real position. Tonight you're at the defendant's stand, and we're the ones blame you, brand and no hood. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We blame you for the institutional categorical you are pushing the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u813	Please finish, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u814	I'll be done in a minute. We accuse you of direct interventions in justice, the manipulation of judges and the institutional scandal, of the country's conscious disdain, bilingualism, half of it, the permanent arrogance of a temporary authority. We accuse you of the constant civil war rhetoric, of hatred, of poison, which you constantly spill into this afflicted place, of shadows, of populism, of depreciating politics, of leaving behind in the political life of the country. We blame you and the Greek people will judge you. And be sure, gentlemen of the government, the country will find the way it deserves, and you will take the road. And the change movement will play a decisive, protagonist role, independently and consistently in our principles, for a progressive governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u815	The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Kourublis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u816	Mr President, I have heard several colleagues from this morning honour me and refer to my name. But what sucks me like a man is that they attempted - I don't know if they deliberately did - to get my name involved in the case of "NOVARTIS". Against me, a report by three colleagues, in March 2017, has been filed on one fact that was not supposed to happen in August 2015. I'll explain what happened. Mr President, I was the minister in a really troubled period, which was the culmination of the Greek Government's conflict with Europe, the capital controls, the referendum, a difficult period. So our first concern - and we are proud of this - under very difficult conditions did not leave the country without medicines and without health material. That wasn't metaphysical. It was done with a great deal of effort, with the mobilization of the economic police. Because all interests in this area wanted to repeat what they have done and other periods, to create artificial shortages. And in those times when they did, the suspect had the courage to send them to the prosecutor, to take them as defendants to the prosecutor, Mr. Doyako, with press reports. What didn't I do? We did not deposit - it says - and we did not issue, we did not publish the invoicing decision. Mr President, I will submit to the House, firstly, the prerequisites for the third memorandum, where it says that the architecture of invoicing must be changed, and that is why Article 2(6) of the law, which was adopted on 14 August, stipulates precisely this procedure. On 27 August it was sent by the Ministry of Health to the Official Journal of the Government, there is CAR 7890 to publish the Ministerial Invoicing Decision, which I hold in my hands. The government resigned this evening and on the 7th of the month it returned to the Ministry. I will agree with previous speakers, at last when we say things to know what we say, the Minister does not make the invoicing. There are institutions which give it invoicing. On 1 September, Mr President, there is a protocol number, the director of the Directorate of Medicines, Mr Papapas, informs the Minister of State that invoicing was not published and returned. This same decision is being promoted by the next Minister, Mr Diopoulos. And it's published on September 11th. That's what I didn't do. And now some, seeing the tsunami coming, remembered it after a year and a half and make a real fragmentary political move to involve people who are well known to Greece and what our relationship with all these circles of multinational corporations was. So, ladies and gentlemen, ask Mr Kaleliris who visited him and gave him documents on tax avoidance and all the toys of multinationals. Ask Mr. Prodi, Mrs. Savvaidou, Mr. Theocharis, Mr. Venizelos with whom we were friends at the time. I have the e-mail I sent him about what had to be done about the drug issue. Ask Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Tsakalotos, everyone, and I speak in the intersection. We're talking about the game of tax evasion and the game of the big snatch and the big party. I believe my old companion, Mr Loverdos, will remember them better when we talked about them. We said: 'Send some to the prosecutor' and you said: 'Yes'. And in the end, no one went to the D.A. Now what did I do about the medicine?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u817	Please, for a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u818	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u819	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u820	On May 19, we issue a ministerial decision on wholesale profit withheld by multinationals when selling to pharmacy. They've been holding it back for twenty years. If it is estimated from 6 million to 10 million a year, then it is about 150 million to 200 million. Now he's an EEA resource, Mr. President. On 4 June, Mr President - and I will table these decisions in the Minutes - we are adopting two decisions, which we are doing? We call on the citizens to participate where we found it. What happened in the past three years?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u821	Please, Minister, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u822	I shall conclude, Mr President. Since 2010, we have had a coherent flow of increased citizens' participation. And we reached 2014, where you calculate that he has touched 30%. Since June 2015, there has been no increase in the participation of citizens. Who wins and who loses? Did the industries lose what we did? They've lost. Because from the 2 billion and up there is, of course, the claw back. And that's right. But, as citizens increase, the cost of multinationals is reduced. This is the difference at this point. These were, therefore, a few thoughts, Mr President, and I understand the moment I wanted to make a statement. And to confirm - because in our lives there is a conscience - that in 2014 the man who had given me the information and made all that attack against "NOVARTIS", was Mr. Salmas, Mr. President. I want to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u823	Thank you very much, Minister. The President of the JRC Parliamentary Group, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u824	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u825	Mr. Leventis, please don't ask for the floor. The meeting will go by 2.00 p.m. We'll all be together, and we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u826	Will we talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u827	You'll talk sometime by 2:00, just like everyone else. Democracy is judged by everyone and by their attitude. Here you go, Mr. Kutsuba.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u828	In recent years, competition and the contradictions of very large monopolistic interests have been known to increase. Strong capitalist states, monopolistic groups, which are active in all sectors and in the economic sector, of course, as in the pharmaceutical, energy, food, water, the military sector with armaments, interventions, war planning and so many others that are on the agenda every day. It is, in our opinion, very naive to assume political irresponsibility to consider that it has nothing to do with, for example, the discomfort of the United States of America for the profits of Germany to the detriment of its own companies and the competition they are developing in the sector in particular here in the pharmaceutical industry by highlighting the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Or with similar constituencies at the same time in the energy of the same or other States. Or even the dispute over the plots of the Cyprus EEZ and all related to geopolitical control of the region and wider. And these are only a few and very few of what one can say in view of the present reality, the dangers that exist for the Greek people, for all the peoples in the region. Because in our view, other than the fourth assessment, electronic auctions, new reductions in pensions, privatisation and the sale of public property and other prerequisites, i.e. anti-popular measures and reforms, which affect people's incomes further. And all this together, together, we have to take a single look at it, and the Greek people must look at it, and uniformly, to deal with it. Both the issues of economic policy and relations with the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the issues of foreign policy and other geopolitical interests and oppositions, as well as the issues of corruption, the plight within the political staff of the various urban parties to manage these groups' affairs, such as the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time and it will certainly not be the last one that a scandal is at the heart of confrontation and an attempt is being made to overshadow all the other issues and problems. Of course, as in the case of the NOVARTIS scandal, for example, there is a common denominator. It is the attempt to show the scandals and corruption as the main cause of the crisis, the memorials, the various anti-grassroots measures that our people are experiencing every day. And, of course, SYRIZA doesn't originalize. We have heard the government's argument about this 'NOVARTIS' scandal today and by an oral Prime Minister in the past few days and we will be listening to it shortly. The cause of the crisis, the memorials and the problems of the people, tell us that it is simply in corruption, some corrupt politicians and not all in a system. It is an overall social and economic policy that has in its DNA the hunting of profits, that is, all of which the current government is also serving with very great consistency. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government once again 'grows oil' the system itself, turning up the economic crises in the misery and corruption of the respective government personnel. Except that neither hatreds nor corruption can hide that such scandals are the top of the iceberg business up to geopolitical games, the clearing of accounts between leading monopolies and capitalist states. That is why there is not a single capitalist state that did not have its own scandals. We recall that the NOVARTIS case, which essentially relates to Swiss and German capitals, has been shaken up by the Americans, and that is enough to understand that here we are dealing with, among other things, another incident of competition between the United States of America and the European Union. There is not a single case in the million that the pain in corruption or in the amount of pharmaceutical expenditure paid by our people has caught the Americans. Ladies and gentlemen, the source of the problem is that the medicine is a very profitable commodity, ownership of business groups. The competition of large groups for larger profits and larger market shares is exacerbated both in Greece and internationally, within the drug sector and between different branches of industry for larger shares in total consumption, between domestic pharmaceutical companies and groups that import them, between groups supported by different imperialist centres, different alliances between prototypes and generic, between goods of different technology, such as classical pharmaceutical chemistry, biotechnology and others. In other words, there is the objective basis for an endless donation and reception between groups and governments. There will always be someone willing to bribe in order to sign or not to sign any Minister's decision. There will always be groups with an interest in buying and corrupting. The system forms mainly legal methods through state regulations and also illegal ones, in order to ensure maximum profit from a larger part of the market. That is why, while the legislative and audit measures taken by all governments are not missing, they are constantly replicating phenomena of corruption and illegality. These are inherent and derivatives of the capitalist way of production in the name, of course, of which you drink water, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which you would like to present as socialists and the rest of the anti-population you are accusing - the opposition of the government - as socialists. Currently, clinical pharmaceutical research is funded by large private groups. They oblige each researcher to connect to develop academically. From the profitable research programs, which they ensure for EITs, researchers are evaluated. You all know that. From their participation in conferences funded by companies, doctors are evaluated. All major management schools officially teach how to influence their products within the scientific community. So who do you all work for today, especially you, gentlemen of the government, with the various trolls of SYRIZA that you have all these days put naive children among the others, your well-paid twinners, to say that the JRC is talking only about capitalism? Of course we know you're not stupid. All these concrete and tangible things that the JRC says about capitalism and your own policy, revealing both yesterday's and today's pitifulness, you are simply trying to hide them to make fun of, to resleep the Greek people. In any case, then, we say that the people will be lost again and only the people. Lost is the patients who pay increased amounts for drugs. You afflict years of suffering with bureaucratic suspensive procedures, as well, there is a number that restricts or discontinues medical care because it no longer has any such financial potential. For all this, of course, we have not heard a word yesterday and today from the Members of the SYRIZA and of course from those of the New Democracy and the other parties. Besides, the information on the pharmaceutical cost, state and insurance, reveals that the governments that went ahead in reducing public spending, did not do so to affect the profits of the pharmaceutical industry, but to achieve the objectives of fiscal adjustment and to load them on the workers' backs. Of course, despite the drastic reduction, which has taken place in recent years, the pharmacy expenditure, which is continuing with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, is very small. This year, for example, the nominal drug expenditure has been limited to EUR 1,945 billion, with the average price reduction of preparations from 2010 to 63,2%. However, the decrease in the average value per piece sold at retail prices is only 16.44%. In other words, the state expenditure on the medicine may be reduced, but the cost of the medicines is not reduced, so that the patient is additionally charged for his purchase. In order to reduce pharmaceutical costs, governments use and use a single argument. When was the rationalisation of expenditure, the housekeeping, the treatment of polypharmaceuticals and so on. Irrespective of the individual differences between governments, the direction and purpose of the measures is to cut State insurance costs for medicines in the direction of reducing so-called non-wage costs. All governments have taken measures. Each government implemented its previous measures and in turn extended them. He loaded patients with increased payments in relation to the past, even after reducing the retail price of positive list medicines. All the measures taken by governments resulted from 9% of the patient's median participation in 2009 to have spread to about 35% in 2017. Compared with 2009-2016, the state and the insurance funds, the public expenditure, they pay 57.7% less, while the insured pay 43.1% more. Of course, the above should also be counted on the so-called negative list medicines - they are prescribed, but they are not compensated for by the EEAS - and the non-prescribed medicines, which, in addition, were recently released and paid 100% of the patients as well as the 10 euros that have become status and which are paid by patients for the prescription to doctors, because they consider that they are outside the free visits. At the same time, the increase in the contributions of pensioners to the health sector, therefore, for medicines, in the main and ancillary pensions, which for 2017 were estimated at EUR 717 million. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC will vote for the establishment of a pre-review committee and will try through its participation in it to bring the truth to light, to show the real cause of the scandals, to assign responsibility where they exist. The investigation must concern all parties involved in the policy of medicine and extend to all competitive interests to date, especially when there are category witnesses from companies competing with NOVARTIS and directly related to the United States of America. For example, we do not see why the research and Mr Kurublis should not be concerned, which we have heard before and any of his meetings. If, as he says, there is nothing to be afraid of, let the investigation go unintentionally on for him, and for anyone else who wants it to emerge in the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, we also consider that the committee should be able to examine the witnesses who appear to be 'protected'. The witnesses with the hoods, as they are more widely known in Greek society. We are clear from the outset that as a party we are vertically opposed to this institution, the so-called protected witnesses, established in 2001, with the reactionary provisions of the then 'terrorist' and subsequently extended, in 2014, to corruption. We are opposed, as such practice gives the opportunity to examine witnesses anonymously, without their presence in the court, opening dangerous paths to democratic rights and popular freedoms. We believe that the state services should and have this possibility, be able to protect all witnesses so that they can come to the court and file surnames on what they know about the case they are called. And here is the difference between the stance of the authorities of the JRC and the enormous hypocrisy of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy and PASOK. We would remind you that when the provisions on protected witnesses from New Democracy and the PASOK were passed, SYRIZA had, in our opinion, exercised - and correctly in our opinion - criticism of these anti-democratic provisions, and now there is absolutely no problem in invoking them and using them to the detriment of his political opponents, and if he were in this position today or tomorrow, he would be slick at all tons. On the other hand, New Democracy and the PASOK are now protesting about an institution that they themselves have introduced into the criminal proceedings and they are rusting now, while when they use it tomorrow against SYRIZA, it will all be well and holy. The hypocrisy of all of you at her peak! To know, those of you who ignore it, this position of principle was supported by us as JRC, even in the trial of the proven criminal Nazi Golden Dawn, where we did not agree with the use of such witnesses and abstained from the examination procedure, by not asking them questions. The JRC will try through its participation in the pre-review committee not to degenerate this committee, as is usually the case, only by staying on individual three-fold issues and some individual persons, covering the real causes of each case and the big toys that are played around it. The JRC is in no way going to play in games of disorientation from all the urgent, actual, escalating, day-to-day problems faced by our people, whether they concern the field of the economy, the measures that are not going to stop in August 2018, as the government is practicing, whether they relate to dangerous developments with imperialist planning and competition, especially in our area, where the government is deeply inhabited and is unfortunately pouring more and more. Inside here, of course, are the latest developments in Greek-Turkish. In fact, there is a further escalation of Turkish aggression, especially after Turkey's officialisation of its claims through Greek territory, during Erdogan's recent visit to Athens. We believe that the situation will escalate further, despite the superficial reassurance and the various reassuring statements by the rulings, with a direct risk of exacerbating the situation in the Aegean, which will also concern issues, especially research and rescue and, overall, our sovereign rights. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you realize that, somewhere here, the reassurance that you are cultivating, with all that you have said, the provocative statements by Erdogan and daily challenges in the Aegean are only enough for internal consumption in Turkey. We have no confidence in you, gentlemen of the government, as we have no confidence in any government that serves the designs of NATO and of the European Union. We recall that following the Imia incident in 1996, the government recognised in Turkey, then, vital interests in the Aegean, and Simitis thanked the United States of America. Of course, you, Mr. Tsipras, have thanked them in advance, especially on your trip to Trump in the United States, which is, as you said, evil, but is doing it for our own good or something like that, anyway. Obviously, because after the commitments and the agreements you have made or made with your trip to the United States, you are seeking to make your Government a signifier of the interests of the United States of America and NATO in the Balkan region and in general. In the context of this new role, which you have undertaken or want to take, anyway, you are also seeking to resolve the issue with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, not by accident, with a view to the NATO summit in July and the accession of this neighbouring country to this imperialist organisation. There might be a deal. At least that's what you're telling us you're pursuing. Except that any agreement is not a solution. It's not a real solution. In our view, the non-inclusion of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in NATO and the European Union is a guarantee, in our view, later. The attempt to prevent this solution does not offer security or stability or peace, as you claim. Instead, NATO itself is this factor, which creates insecurity, leading to further destabilisation, military involvement and various other problems of this kind. The accession of the Western Balkan States raises the risks to all the peoples of the region. Furthermore, a real solution, in our view, means guarantees for the elimination of allegiance, nationalism, claims, safeguarding the inviolability of borders, but that means changes now to the constitution of neighbouring democracy. And this must be preceded by any agreement on the name or whatever. The essence lies in the common struggle of the peoples, friendship, cooperation, non-change of borders, the inviolability of the existing borders, peace, prosperity, but away from NATO and the United States. The struggle of the working people of the Greek people, their youth, must be increasingly directed against the miserable system of rot, corruption, competition, the anarchy of production, unemployment, crises, scandals, wars, the interventions that all of us take together, NATO, CIA, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the bad coup d'état. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u829	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuba. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to pay a little attention to tell you exactly the order of the speakers and how we will be done. If you don't explain why we're going to this show, please very much, I'll now call the Chief of Staff, Mr. Mitsotakis, and then the Prime Minister. Then we'll hang up with the four chiefs. I mean, we're gonna close in the order of the four Heads. Mr. Michaloliakos, Mr. Theodorakis, Mr. Leventis and Mr. Kammenos will speak. Then I would ask the four parliamentary representatives, Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Papachristopoulos, Mr Dendias and Mr Mantas, to follow. It is also possible for three speakers to speak for five minutes: Mr Lykoudis and Mr Saridis and Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos. Finally, the Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, will close the meeting. This is the process that we will respect. The reason why we're going to go slowly we knew about it before. I would ask you not to give each other responsibility for things that we are sometimes all responsible for. It was a special process today. There were three or four speakers who spoke from thirty-five minutes to forty-two minutes from those mentioned, as was reasonable. It's human. We all understand that. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u830	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by taking a distance from what we are discussing today and looking at the big picture. Because today's debate is not taking place in a politically neutral year. The characterisation of the juncture in which we are as critical is no longer a shape of speech. The stability acquis in the wider region of the south-eastern Mediterranean is now in question. Turkey repeatedly displays a provocative aggression, culminating in the recent metabolism of the port vessel. And yet, the government only two months ago celebrated the "success" of Erdogan's visit to Athens. In Cyprus the sovereign rights of the Republic of Cyprus are now openly being challenged. At the very same time, the government opened up the issue of our relationship with Skopje in the most wrong way, without forming an internal political front, without informing the political leaders in advance and, above all, without having, at the outset, made it necessary for a solution to be found to the change in the Skopje Constitution. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] When there were anticipated reactions of the majority of Greek society, you reached the point of being far-right, to describe as a mob the citizens who simply protested why they don't trust you and why in this way they express their patriotic sensitivity. A few days ago in Munich, I participated in the most important global conference on security. Heads of State, Heads of Government, but also top experts spoke about the major geopolitical challenges of a world that is changing rapidly. With a real sense of urgency, they discussed how to deal with the unprecedented liquidity and instability that is testifying around the world. In other circumstances, and in other circumstances, our country could act as a real pillar of stability, as a reliable point of reference in a troubled area. I'll just say it. If Greece had followed the developmental path of the rest of the European countries, if Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos - which I see again is absent from a critical debate - had the elementary sense of responsibility and could understand today more than ever that the needs of the nation require that national interests be put above the party interest, we would not today be a weak country in an area that is flirting. In other words, if Greece had become a normal country, as it could have been already since 2015, it would already have regained the self-evident place it deserves. It would be an attractive ally, it would be a point of reference, a country which everyone would rush to join, but also to defend every time the juncture imposed it. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, Greece is not a normal country today because it does not have a normal government. Because instead of answering unitedly how dominance rights were embedded outside the Imia with the sole responsibility of the government, we go into a hunt of witches, because your passion for your authority has led to such institutional exaggerations and extremities in order to put it into question, to put it yourself in question, your new account of the country returning to normality. What rightly concerns citizens today is that at such a critical time as today's, the Greek political system appears to be obscuring. And that is done on your own sole responsibility, Mr. Tsipras. And this, unfortunately, has an incalculable cost for the country. Do you think what is happening today in this House doesn't our neighbours who are demolished every day? Do you think that what has been happening in recent weeks with this exacerbation of toxicity in the political dialogue, does not the foreign investors who are seeking stability and ultimately their economic activity in a country that can guarantee political normality? Do the Greeks themselves not see this climate, who are looking above all for a solution to their problems and not for toxic discussions from which one might ultimately not win? But that's what you want, Mr. Tsipras. You want to smash your opponents through steadfast accusations that you yourself know aren't proved, but they only aim to leave shadows and suspicions. Everyone knows why you're doing it. You want to transfer the debate from the major problems to the economy, the major problems that you have caused, but also the dangerous handling of national issues, which you have so thoughtlessly opened up. I'm opening a parentheses. Today the electronic auctions started. But here we are in Parliament talking about 'NOVARTIS'. And, of course, you, your ministers, in what you tested and proved to do very well, to divide the Greeks into good and bad, honest and thieves, poor and rich, corrupt and indestructable. You said so, Mr Tsipras, and before the elections: 'Or we end them or we end them'. Well, let me tell you to understand it. In a democracy you cannot finish your political opponents no matter how much you want, no matter how hard you try. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You, Mr Tsipras, will end politically and, in fact, soon in the only way, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, which governments are changing in the republics: by elections. Because whatever you do, elections will be held with a ballot rather than ten, as you are doing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u831	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u832	And you know very well that the citizens who have voted for you are deeply disappointed by irresponsibility, by the turbulence and the enormous burdens you have added to their lives. You've been permanently abandoned. You changed the electoral law. You've changed the rules of the political game. You set up a slandering paratrooper, threatening and prosecuting political opponents. But there is something you cannot change as much as you like, the will of the people. Kolshes, Mr Tsipras, will stand, and then you will not only have opposition to you. You will have the sovereign people before you, who will tell you clearly in his vote: 'We deserve better'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The people who are watching us - those who are watching us, at least, at this late hour...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u833	Too many people are watching us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u834	I'm sure of that. I hope a lot of people are watching and attending the whole meeting. So the citizens who are watching us are not convinced of either deeds or shows. What they want to hear, Mr Tsipras, are convincing proposals for their future, how to create jobs, how to attract investment, how to make the state work better for the benefit of the citizen, how to build an effective network of social protection and solidarity for the weakest. In a speech, which I had made in October 2016, in one of the several discussions we had had on corruption, I told you at the time - and I read - that "the more social and municipal data will be changed to the worst for you, the more morbid your perception of power and institutions will become." Unfortunately, I have been fully confirmed for the country. It turns out that you are not only dangerous to the economy, you are dangerous to democracy itself. You intervene unambiguously and systematically and methodically in the work of justice. You appointed the President of the Ice Bay, head of your legal office one day after retirement. What kind of bills do you cash, anyway? Which President of the Ice Bay and now in charge of your legal office systematically insists on intervening in the work of justice and, of course, provokes the reactions of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. It is the multiplicity, which they have made and in the latter they clearly say that the intervention of Mrs Thanos is, on the one hand, institutionally unacceptable and, on the other, legally incorrect. That is what the judges and prosecutors themselves say about the interventions of your head of legal office. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have turned public television into a tool of uncovered government propaganda. Websites and web betting tax collectors are trying to check for you media. You are of course always offering them the necessary facilities. You cultivate a climate of irresponsible conspiracy, which undermines the right reason and often promotes the vulnerability of the internet, which you reproduce in your official communications, promotes vulgarity in the position of civilized political dialogue. You tolerate violence when it suits you and serves your political plans, and of course you target your political opponents methodically and systematically. You don't even exclude their families. You're doing it irresistible, using paid phones, which you feed from the fat advertising money you're checking and doing it using justice as a tool, not to learn the truth and pay responsibilities, but to squeeze, to smash, to slander with constructed publications, to build on the essence the account with which you want to go to elections. After failing everywhere, after deceiving the citizens, after betraying their dreams, especially the dreams of a new generation who once believed in you, after plunging the country under a mountain tax, you pretend to be clean and moral. The reality is, however, that the government, and Mr Tsipras in particular, are not very interested in the truth, and all you want is to attack your political opponents and especially in New Democracy, which is today the only credible political solution to the current government. If you would like, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, to reveal the truth, why do you exclude Mr. Kurubley from investigating the case? Explain to us and explain to every well-meaning citizen, who is following the debate, how is he now becoming a minister to sign for himself that his own possible crime of infidelity concerning the service was dropped, while at the same time accusing others who were Ministers ten years ago? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am making this proposal. That's what we're talking about today. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above proposal, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You should be the same, if you do believe that Mr. Kourublis is innocent, seeking to investigate the facts of Mr. Kurublis. Mr Kurublis himself should ask for it, as our own officials have requested, not to be protected from the law on the liability of ministers! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Kurublis should ask himself, how much more so when they have understood that with his choice not to issue a price sheet for 2015, he facilitated ‘NOVARTIS’ and other pharmaceutical companies. That's why you set ten polls, Mr. Tsipras, not eleven. You want to get rid of Mr. Kurubli and who knows who else! You want to cover your responsibilities and slander your opponents. And your aim is to turn the next electoral confrontation, not into a debate on the future of the country and of the citizens, but in a mud war, from which you hope to survive politically, not least the fact that this climate of extreme polarization and division, which you deliberately attempt to set up, has already had a negative impact on our country. Who will invest in a country with such a toxic investment environment? Who will be convinced that Greece and the Greek political system really matured and took steps forward? Who will respect and who will be afraid - and why does that sometimes need - of a country which, instead of standing here in the House today united and strong, is plunging it, Mr Tsipras, into polarization and division? Your strategy is doomed to fail, not only because it conflicts with the truth and why you do not have the moral stature to support it, but mainly because you were, gentlemen, SYRIZA and ANEL, even recently on the wrong side of history. When the state grew up, you wanted it even bigger. When we stayed behind in competitiveness, you were against any reform. When we launched a lot of what you, Mr. Tsipras, commit to do, some of your companions burned Athens. When we started large investments and privatisations, you cried 'not sold'. And when we - to come to our point - reduced the cost of medicine, the first you've always reacted. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You allied yourself, Mr. Tsipras, with the pharmaceuticals. You called on us not to dare to reduce the cost of medicine. I present the Minutes from the interview you gave on 26-11-2013. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I challenge you, gentlemen of SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras, if you dare disprove me, to bring me a communication from you - a communication from you! - requesting a reduction in the cost of medicine. There's not one! So it goes very much to be the archangel of the cleansing you who fought to rationalise a system that I first agree was problematic. As much as you are trying to hide it and mutate it, you are - to borrow a medical terminology - the political generosity of an old system, Mr Tsipras, made of the same substances of lies, populism, customer practices and demagogy. Only today the masks fell and the hooded diversions were revealed to the entire Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, on the substance of the case we are discussing today, let me make the following points: 'NOVARTIS' scandal there is. However, it was not discovered by the government's 'language', but by the US authorities, the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the FBI. It's a global scandal. It is investigated in more than fifteen countries and in Greece. Everywhere, in all countries, justice detects the famous 'unfair practices', it invokes market competition rules, imposes penalties, fines and corporate compliances. Everywhere at the centre of the investigation are the methods of promoting the medicine. So everywhere, the judges and the prosecution authorities are looking at an economic scandal, they are locating suspects and punishing guilty persons. And for their part all the serious states, finding their own gaps in the drug circuit, are rushing to treat them simply, targeted, valid and effective. Everywhere except here, apart from Greece, where SYRIZA - ANEL sought to obscure the real scandal, turning it into a prosecution with hooded witnesses. And this institutional diversion, this chain of actions that prepared the 'NOVARTIS' dossier, is an even greater political scandal than the original one. While some are setting gray zones in the Aegean Sea, you are setting gray zones within the House. You have already issued your gray finding for your opponents, without a vote of proof, to be smashed into the consciousness of the citizens, without a court having tried them. Guilty to prove their innocence, as Mr Kotzias said, until he reconstructed his bread today. Our position is clear: Light in the dark. We need to know the truth. Let's take the circuit out. All those involved should be punished wherever they are. To claim compensation from the company for the damage it caused to the insurance funds and the state budget. Let us move on to those legislative changes which will ensure that phenomena do not recur in the future. But you did not do that, Mr. Tsipras. Instead of safeguarding the interests of the public, you used the case to hit your political opponents. You first spoke to us about the NOVARTIS case just a year ago. For the first time on February 1st and more detailed on February 10th in a question to the Prime Minister's Hour, tabled by Mr Theodorakis. I shall put the Minutes to the vote at the sitting. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Minutes, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will not go into the obvious, how you have known the details of the scandal since, when it was revealed in the litigation 11 months later. I'll say something else. Since you have pointed out that there is a real 'NOVARTIS' scandal, what exactly did you do? How many checks did you start? What measures did you take against the company? What did you do about the circuit of doctors and overregistrations? Who was referred back? Who's out? You who are supposed to care so much about ordinary citizens and patients, tell us what measures you have taken for their own protection and, above all, tell us whether or not you have proceeded with an action against the company in requesting compensation. I do not ask you to tell me what you will do in the future, Mr Tsipras. I would ask you to tell me what you have already done about the substance of a scandal that seems to have known for a year. Didn't you make it, Mr. Tsipras? Or did you use time to make political indictments? The turnover and profits of "NOVARTIS" increased over your days, as the company's figures show. At the same time, you do absolutely nothing to reduce the overregistration that is, it has been and still is a time-consuming outbreak of corruption and it causes great economic bleeding in public funds. The information system of electronic prescribing, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the best and most modern in Europe. It was implemented by previous 'bad' Memorandum governments. You did not vote for it, as you did not vote for the rebate, the claw back, the rest of the tools for restoring the pharmaceutical expenditure. The e-prescription system - you probably don't know it, but let me inform you - has built-in tools for detecting, predicting and preventing fraud. These tools were handed over to HICP, to the Ministry of Labour's IT centre in November 2015. By your responsibility these tools remain inactive and the number of recipes - take note, not the total charge for the funds - is increased from 5.3 million months in 2014 to 6.3 million months in 2016, with an increase in trend and 2017. So the evidence doesn't lie. Behind the voices and fairy tales about the supposedly moral advantage of the Left, the government, through its omissions, favours the "part" to health and to cover its own inability, blames those who have harnessed the excessive pharmaceutical expenditure and laid the foundations for its drastic reduction. And if you want, Mr Tsipras, to do something drastic about the problem of corruption in health, you have nothing but to implement the national strategy to combat corruption in health, which was presented by the then Minister of Health, Mr Vorides, in November 2014. It was an excellent text prepared by civil servants, in cooperation with the task force, which describes a number of detailed actions on how corruption can be reduced to health. You have done nothing of this plan. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above draft, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the substance of the case, our representatives have already been detailed in the debate, but also in the political faces which the government is trying to involve. I believe our good fellow citizens, who have followed the whole debate, have come to their conclusions on how the government has meddled this case by intervening in justice, with only the aim of hitting its political opponents. Mr. Tsipras, you weren't here to hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u835	I heard them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u836	You weren't here. You didn't have the courage to look them in the eye. You did not have the courage to be here, you who blame ten people and set up ballots, listen to them and look at them in the eyes, look at Mr. Pikramenos, who with a shaking voice stood at this here the Step to defend his innocence against the "slash" you directed. You didn't have the courage! You hid in your office. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, the down-to-date eyes of your MPs, while they were speaking, prove that if there are guilty men in this Chamber, you are guilty of a systematic attempt to murder characters. And today the defendants who stood at this party became prosecutors, and the prosecutors became apologies. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The way the government handles and handles this case is not only institutionally and politically immoral. It directly undermines the distinction of powers in our country, because everyone understands that this story, as it is, has nothing to do with criminal proceedings, with inconsistent procedures, with an independent judicial investigation. The government, the government majority in fact, blames ten politicians - including two former Prime Ministers, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, the Greek Commissioner in the European Union and Ministers - on the sole criterion - there is no other evidence - three anonymous testimony, which is unprecedented in legal times. You say in your proposal that perhaps - be careful, if necessary - they have committed the offence of infidelity. However, this cannot be investigated, because your own proposal recognises that it is being deleted. You have not even dared, Mr Tsipras, to propose to prosecute, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. However, you set ten polls, forgetting Mr Kurublis at random. Yesterday with an announcement - notice this - it has already been heard in the Chamber, but it must be heard again - of the Vice-President of the Ice Authority, we are learning the institutional unthinkable. What's that? That the status of witnesses of public interest was granted by the Deputy Prosecutor when? On 9 February, i.e. five days after the census was sent to Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am presenting in the Minutes the relevant statement by the Deputy Prosecutor. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here we are in front of an unprecedented procedural procedure, and what I say to you is confessing to the SYRIZA Members and Members still, in the corridors, low-speaking. We have said from the outset that we want this preliminary committee to be set up for the complete conclusion of the case. And after yesterday's developments and the legal acrobaticism of a public prosecutor who illegally gives witness protection status - because that is what only the House can do - the presence of the three "gullows" witnesses in the committee is absolutely imperative. We will reveal this disgraceful form to the committee and warn you - I have said it again, I say it again in this Chamber - that you do not dare shut down the committee without everything coming to light. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because that's what I understand you're planning. Justice with anonymous charges and constructed indictments does not exist in a democracy. The witnesses must come and testify before the committee and in contrast with the indicted politicians here. They should come here to the House in front of those who blame. Stop hiding behind the protected witnesses and blame the New Democracy for not allegedly respecting the institution. Firstly, because, as it turns out, the witnesses were not even placed under protection when they gave the testimonies. And secondly, Mr Tsipras, because the institution of witnesses of public interest generally concerns very specific cases: terrorism, drugs, cases that justify the fear of witnesses, even for their lives. I would again like to ask the obvious question which the government and the Minister responsible seem to refuse to answer: what exactly are they afraid of? Should Mr. Pikrammenos be raped or beaten by Mr. Stournaras? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But if they really are afraid of their lives, if they feel threatened, let them come, Mr. Tsipras, testify with hood, let them come and testify with a corrupt voice, let them come to testify as they want themselves, but come to testify. That's why we're saying again: All in the light! But we will not legitimise a procedure which aims only at public impreciseness. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the New Democracy is ringing.]] That is why we have told you from the outset and insist to the end: will you, as you have to do, on the basis of the proposal that you have tabled, one poll, with one single question: yes or no, the establishment of a preliminary committee? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's what you're asking for in your proposal if you're bothering to read it. And to that question, we are voting 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u837	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u838	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with these comments. Everything that is happening in this case is questioning our most important conquest, and that is no longer the rule of law. Indeed, it is done, as I said at the beginning, in an extremely critical geopolitical situation, where the waves of geopolitical instability are hitting our country and where Greece, unfortunately, remains locked in economic stagnation. Constantine Karamanlis had prophetically said that "democracy is avenged by those who most invoke it." The nation’s ruler spoke in troubled times when we all hoped that we had left them behind. However, the wheel of history has brought it so that our democracy, again in danger from those who, invoking the good of the people, systematically undermine the democratic institutions, from those who, in the name of the so-called rupture with the old, reproduce the worst habits of passivity, from those who, in the specter of their electoral crash, take all the means, legitimately and unfairly, to remain a little more in their chairs than those who equate the government with power. So understand it well, Mr. Tsipras. In democracies, governments operate within the framework of the Constitution and the laws. They rule, they do not dominate. They work in a framework of rules, they do not rule. Their strength is balanced and is mainly controlled by other powers, and by the insurance margins of the Constitution and the centrals, the basic rules of liberal urban democracy. We won't let you make Greece a third-world colony. The rule of law is, after all, always imposed on the para-state. Democracy will not bend the head in a ruthless company that does anything to remain in power. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the case of the preliminary committee leaves the back of the repulsive odour of a formulation, but also the deeper wound to justice, to the institutions and to the political life of the country. Those who look ahead are determined to stay in our collective memory as a sad chapter in history, which the Greeks will close very soon, because that is what the citizens are waiting for today, in a great and substantial political change, for a change that will not only guarantee the return to economic prosperity, but will shield the institutions of our democracy so that they are over persons and above close party objectives. The New Democracy is ready to give politically its lost authority, restore the independence of justice, without, Mr. Tsipras, confusing the roles of prosecutors with those ministers or those of secret services, to restore Parliament to its mission and party controversy in the spirit that makes it fertile and productive, to offer the country the truth, regularity and orderly functioning away from divisions. We are the calm political force that ensures stability and guarantees the security and credibility of the country. I trust in the Greek people's judgment. We deserve better. Soon Greek citizens will take their fates into their hands and your sad epilogue will be the optimistic foreword of a modern, fair and progressive homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u839	The President and President of SYRIZA Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u840	I do not know, Mr President, if you had arranged it before I went out at 12 o'clock. However, I will say that I have listened very carefully to the Chief of Officer County speaking for about forty minutes. In the first twenty of the forty minutes he spoke, he did not talk about the subject we are discussing today, but he did a more general analysis. He talked about foreign policy, about the economy. He told us a little - very much that Erdogan was deported, because here we are discussing 'NOVARTIS'. He told us later, of course, about the international conspiracy and the international construction of the FBI, but he could not know that at the same time as he was talking about them, another insidious blow to the international conspiracy of capitalism was given to Mr. Mitsotakis, precisely at the time he was speaking, because a few minutes ago the international house "MODY'S" upgraded the Greek economy's credit rating by two units. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These are our great dead ends, Mr. Mitsotakis! I have heard Mr Venizelos say the same thing, that the economy is on the rocks, and that is why we are discovering issues which otherwise do not exist. So I have listened very carefully, ladies and gentlemen, and the representatives of the opposition parties, particularly those who are involved in the NOVARTIS scandal. And from the outset I would like to say that I fully respect the indiscriminate right to defend themselves, but also the presumption of the innocence that applies to all of us without exception, from the judges and not from us, of the opposite. However, what I would like, starting with my speech, to point out is the great question that was raised mainly by listening to the positions of nine of the ten people involved in the case, but also to a large extent to the speakers of the opposition parties. This is a question that has been created to me, and since there is no wing in Parliament that has not adopted the view that the National Representation should today vote in favour and proceed with the setting up of a parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary investigation. I also believe that by listening, this afternoon all, to the average Greek citizen, watching from the television receivers today's meeting, the same question will have: Do we have a scandal, or is it a construction? Has there been a scandalous waste in Greece for decades in the health field, in the drug field or not? Has there been a systematic overvaluation of medicinal products and materials or has there been no? And, in particular, regarding 'NOVARTIS', was there systematic intervention by this multinational in order to promote market preparations? Was there an intervention in order to increase prices and retain them, when in the Memorandum years the expenditure was reduced and, however, moved to the insured? Was there or has there been no intervention? Many of the speakers, particularly the Deputy Minister of Health, have given the Minister, in particular examples. Is there anyone who is questioning the company's opaque practices today, the illegal payments of hundreds of thousands of doctors who prescribe, the guiding prescription, the manipulation of the price of the medicine, the special treatment of the company that was paid preferentially even in times of Greek state payments, lack of liquidity? Is there anyone who doubts this fact? Is that all there was or wasn't there? Was there or has there been no money laundering through dubious utility medical conferences and dubious faithfulness forms and media? All this happened at the place or didn't happen, or is it all a big deal? The truth is that information about this big party in the health field has been there for many years, which we all know about. And I will not only refer to the ongoing interventions then by SYRIZA as opposition, but also to other parties then as opposition that were not in the New Democracy, such as Mrs Bakoyannis' party and Mr Augias with a question here in this House, which highlighted all these issues. I will refer to Mr Surla's report, from the General Secretariat of Transparency and Human Rights in 2012, on the events 2012-2013. What did this report say? We're making the unscrupulous. We all fell off the clouds today. He said that in his report in June 2012, the OECD referred to fines of 350 million dollars imposed by the U.S. judicial authorities over the last two years on five multinational companies operating in Greece. They were companies that bribe Greek officials to promote their products: pharmaceutical, orthopaedic, medical devices, etc. And how does Mr Surla's report end? Is Mr. Sourlas SYRIZA? "That's how we got to bankruptcy. These cases of corruption have been chosen because they have caused the greatest losses of revenue in the Greek economy. According to the most moderate calculations, these losses amount to more than 12 billion a year.’ I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And similar conclusions were the report by Mr Rakindzis. I'm putting this one in the Minutes, too. [[At this point, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Did we suddenly all fall off the clouds? The truth is that, in today's debate, I have certainly heard too many speeches and too many speakers from the opposition speaking about the construction. However, I did not hear anyone having the courage to directly deny the existence of a drug scandal. In fact, I have listened with great interest to one of the alleged participants, Mr Salma, but also several former ministers for health, PASOK and New Democracy, confirm this in their statements in the last few days. But today, a few minutes ago, I heard Mr Mitsotakis confirming it. ‘There’ said ‘NOVARTIS scandal’. “NoVARTIS Scandal” exists” said Mr. Mitsotakis. So since there are ladies and gentlemen, I have one question: How the hell has this scandal become? Is he growing? Was it a natural phenomenon? Who was to blame for this scandal? Isn't there any responsibility? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt. Listen to me, as I have heard your Chief with care. I am not going to speak today, from this step, either as a lawyer or as a judge, and how much more as a prosecutor. I do not even intend to speak about the so-called 'legal criminal' part at all. After all, you are all in agreement with the establishment of a committee that will carry out a preliminary investigation and everyone, I imagine, trust you are trusting justice to judge on these issues, the legal and criminal matters. I, I repeat, will speak politically today and not lawfully from this point of view. And I ask: is there all this scandal that you have admitted that there is, Mr Mitsotakis, the scandal of waste, the scandal of mismanagement, the scandal of the enormous damage of the Greek public, political responsibility? Leave the criminal. I accept everything that has been said by this House and the presumption of innocence and of criminal responsibilities that have not yet been proved. It is of course, since we are at the beginning of the investigation, and that is why this disgraceful law on the responsibility of ministers laid down in the Constitution provides for us. We can't change him unless we make a constitutional review. We didn't bring him that law. And any political person who comes to the hands of the judges is coming to the House immediately. How can there be further signs, then? We're at the beginning of the investigation. But let go of criminal liability. Is there a political responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u841	This is for the criminal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u842	You're welcome. Be quiet and don't make the judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u843	I mean, in a few words, those who have ruled these years...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u844	Today we are judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u845	No, Mr. Javarra, we're not today. You don't know that well, even though you're a law-abiding lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u846	I know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u847	To the committee. Be a member of the committee and there you will have these responsibilities. Today we are in charge of legislative power under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u848	That's too bad. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u849	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u850	I would like to say a few words, Mr President, if you would allow me to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u851	Politically, we're talking. Excuse me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u852	Yeah, but you're interrupting my armour.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u853	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u854	In short, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you something very simple. That's why the scandal you admitted, you people who ruled for so many years, didn't get anything? Under the nose of political leaders was all this? Did the service and the doctors do it or could they do it, in complete ignorance of government factors? You know, this is not a small amount of money we're talking about. We are talking about amounts that have directly affected the country's budgetary path when the Surla report speaks of 12 billion a year. Here's the deficits. Here's the debt. To understand the order of magnitude, it is enough to tell you that the Koskotta scandal, which has aroused the political life of the place, was then an embezzlement of 34 billion drachmas, 100 million euros, that is, to make matchings. And today, we are talking about a constant burden for every year some say 12 billion. We are talking about 'Novartis' for a damage by the Greek State over EUR 3 billion. That is what we are talking about today. And I wonder again: will anyone have the political courage to take on politics - I say, not the criminal responsibility - for this unprecedented damage? Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm so sorry. But you have had an opportunity today on behalf of your party, which is being put forward and reasonably, I will say, you are defending it, to go over it. But what I am going to say is that it is perhaps the case for the leaders of larger calibers and velvets. You have had the opportunity, on behalf of your resignation, to take over, at least in the last few years, political responsibility. Not only did you not do so, but instead you have also fully adopted the childish and divisive rhetoric of construction and political persecution. The stupid, I would say, theory that we organized an international operation to exterminate our political opponents, with the help of the American Ministry of Justice, the American Embassy and the FBI. We said we had abilities, but we're not planetaries, Mr. Mitsotakis, to do all this. But I would like to remind you, since you did not have the courage to do that overrun, that the NOVARTIS scandal is unfortunately not the only one that has shocked the political life of the country. It is perhaps the largest in relation to the size of the Greek government's damage, but not the only one. And sometimes great scandals emerged, with self-proof damage, financially for the public interest and evidence of criminal responsibilities, which was to be investigated, as good time today. But almost ever these scandals with obvious political implications have not been left unfamiliar with political responsibility. I would like to remind the National Representation of what Andreas Papandreou was doing with vividness for the Koskotas scandal from this party on September 27, 1989. But remind me of something that you will remember more strongly, namely what Karamanlis did in Vatopedi. Speaking to the Senate next door in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on 16 December 2008, he accepted political responsibility. He didn't sue justice or his political opponents. We're talking about a scandal that didn't have an FBI deposit or an international dimension. It started with a statement that was, however, enough to put those who were allegedly involved, for as long as the investigation lasted, out of responsibility. So I urge you all to compare this political position with many others with your current position, with the current attitude of Officerial Opposition but also some of the political people who are alleged to be involved in the case. Instead of taking on their political responsibility and stating their confidence in Greek justice for investigating the case, they have launched an unprecedented attack on terror, intimidation and ravaging intervention - I would say - in the work of prosecutors and judges. It is an attack - and in particular the style being conducted by this Step, by extortion and threats - which offends the institutions themselves and democracy in our country. But let me go back to the gentleman, to the real theme of today's debate. Do you know what the real thing is? The real issue is not to be judges - who are not the Members of Parliament - and to look for how and how for each of them the evidence actually leads to proof. There are the judges to do that and they will. As far as I know, they are already doing so with regard to the offence of money laundering. The real issue here, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the regime, the reasons why the country was led, not just to damage, but to the brink of destruction and bankruptcy. I'll tell you right away. I was even watching - it was time most people looked on television - when Mr Venizelos and Mr Samaras spoke. There is no greater gift for the parliamentary majority than what has been done today. Today, especially in the presence of both parties' leaders during that critical period of coexistence, it is the one which reminds the Greek people of this dramatic period of plundering, the great crisis and the great hybrid - I would say - against the great social majority. The worst thing is that they showed up today, both promising the return in order to get revenge. In his speech in particular, Mr Samaras must have said more than twenty times 'you will be accountable'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u855	Twenty-seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u856	Twenty-seven. You counted them. He must have made over ten special courts for me personally. Even Roham would never have that many charges. But since he used Brecht, I'll answer with Breech. Breech said: "The issue with him is not what he says, but who says it." We must not forget, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as the Greek people do not forget, that the warning difference with other major scandals that troubled the country, and with this, is not only the size of the damage, but the fact that this damage was one of the causes of the expansion of the country's deficits and public debt. And the reasons for bankruptcy also relate to the conditions for building the political hegemony of bipartisanism in previous years, the so-called golden period of development, but also to the conditions for managing the crisis from 2010 to 2015, during the period of social plundering. We have talked many times about all of this and the Greek people are now aware of the reasons. He knows that the old political system was set up on opaque practices that, when they were not illegal, were definitely immoral. He knows that the old political system has erupted and stood on the generalized tax evasion of the powerful, on the extensive client networks, on the services of special interests, on the underground trades and transactions of civil servants, as high as they were, with multinationals, with entrepreneurs, with mediators. The Greek people know that. This was the image of the political system in the country: opacity, diabeticity, degeneration, arrogance. And this arrogance has never been expressed in a more vulgar manner than the infamous motto that some have lated at the beginning of the period of the Memorandum tragedy, that together we have eaten it. Well, it turns out today that we didn't eat together, because we're not all the same, and why we didn't eat them on the stock exchange, at the 'SIEMENS', at OTE, in public works, in equipment, in the NRP, in public supplies, in medicine. We didn't eat them together. How do we do it? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And the question is: Who ate them? It ate them a numerous - it is the truth - economic, social and political elite that has set up the nets of its power and the institutional mechanisms of influence and blackmail for decades. Her names, if you are interested, will be found in the golden lists of tax havens. And if these practices were once condemned at the time of molding prosperity, they became ten times more repulsive, more burdensome, more obscene, during the memorial period. This is the hybrid I said before. When the political personnel of bankruptcy demolished rights, cut pensions, cut social costs, towel salaries, shut down schools and hospitals, but apparently he knew very well how to work in order to feed his greed, because that is what this is all about. It was, therefore, this terrible political attitude, this inconceivable anaesthesia and outrageous arrogance that created the social and political dynamics for overthrowing political correlations from 2012 onwards. Yeah, that's why we're here. We won the January and September elections and we do not forget that. We are not entitled to forget that. We do not forget that the mandate of the Greek people in Genarris and September 2015 was not only to fight against austerity and the working jungle, it was not only a fight to recover social rights that were released in the five years 2010-2015. It was also a mandate to give justice to us, and it was a mandate to do everything in our power to highlight the responsibilities of the old political system for the Memorandum tragedy. The Greek people are right to that requirement. He was right to ask for the cleansing and then the nemesis, as in the ancient tragedy, because tragedy was what lived all these years. It has not been done anywhere in Europe. And his tragedy had nothing to do with the problematic architecture of the Eurozone and the inherent injustices of the steel disciplines of the markets. It was not only about the distorting development model and regional inequalities, it was not about self-government, as it turned out, those who designed and imposed monster and failed Memorandum programs. They also have Greek names. I would like to assure you that, as far as we are concerned, we will not ignore the mandate of the Greek people, no matter how many people are trying to intimidate us with sues and threats and with special courts. We threats and blackmails don't account for. We're made of other material. We're not scared. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We shall respect the full and the desire and the command given to us by the Greek people. But you have no doubt, not only we, no one will be terrorized: neither I, nor the parliamentary majority, nor the Greek justice and the witnesses, protected and not, who suddenly the institution of the guarded witnesses, are taking him along, although you have voted on him. Throughout Europe, all over the world, in the United States, they consider them to be heroes, who take the courage to speak, to tell the truth, against powerful systems and to reveal the scandals, but you here called them "coopers" and ask for the hood to come out. In this place the institutions will function, the laws and procedures will be observed and justice, be sure, will be attributed, no matter how many people are already trying with tricks and tricks to prevent this. Because - you know - beyond the joke of the case, the sue to me and to Papaggelopoulos on an international construction, there is also some practical result in this action concerning the lawsuit - unprecedented - to judges, to honest prosecutors who have made the great challenge of doing their job as defined by the law. What's the obvious of this action that isn't random? They sue corruption prosecutors to prevent judicial investigation. They have a plan. They want to exclude honest prosecutors, who are well aware of the case, in order to prevent the proceedings from moving forward immediately. But know they won't get through them, they won't make it. This case will go ahead, they want - they do not want. Justice in this place will be rendered as appropriate and as laid down in the Constitution and the laws of the country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] For all these reasons, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today I invite you to choose the only right and honest path, to vote in accordance with the Rules and the Constitution, to set up a parliamentary committee for preliminary examination. I invite you to choose as a Plenary of the National Representation the only institutionally anticipated path to fully investigate this case and to respond to the complex procedural and substantive issues that have arisen in the context of judicial investigation. I call on you to choose the path of political and institutional responsibility. And this is an option, the only choice, which respects the institutions and the law, but at the same time gives clear signal to the citizens that we will not cover, we will not bury, we will bury one of the biggest scandals of modern history, because the Greek people have the right and demand that they all come out to light and learn the truth, learn what happened in the years of prosperity, and that some have managed the country's bankruptcy, which centres, which are responsible for the collapse of institutions and laws, who have abused the authority that gave them, who have exploited positions and responsibilities, who have finally blessed the spread of public money, and in a sector as sensitive as public health, to know who were those who have turned pain and disease into a means of enrichment. And of course not only to learn, but also to suffer the consequences of the law. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] We all owe it to ourselves. We owe it to the credibility of the political system. We owe it to the country and to the citizens, but above all we owe it to the new generations, we owe it to the new children who have fled abroad, we owe it to our children so that we can look into them tomorrow and look into them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u857	The reason is the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u858	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u859	What do you want, Mr. Theodorakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u860	Now I've been announced that for the fourth time you've changed your place in the series of speakers. It's insulting. I won't speak. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It is insulting not only for me, but for the important day we live, for the important issue that we are discussing we have a clotskuff process. You defined and said Mr. Voutsi that I would speak after the Prime Minister. Now you give the floor to the leader of the Golden Dawn. So take my speech and I ask you to respect at least the decisions of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u861	Mr. Theodorakis, there are four political leaders left. You are no exception, nor is there any intention to be wronged.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u862	Since this morning I have changed four times the list of speakers on your own list.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u863	We're here after midnight, the process is delayed. You're not the only unjust. Please, sit down and you'll talk. The President of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Michaloliacos, has the floor. And since it's time, let's make an effort at least now to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u864	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting of Parliament is about setting up a preliminary committee to deal with a major issue, such as the 'NOVARTIS' case. Before I talked about it, I did something very simple: I got a phone call from two - three my pharmacist friends and all of them, without exception, told me that the drugs today are much cheaper than they were in the past. How does that happen? They told me in particular about 'NOVARTIS' medicines which once had EUR 40 that they currently have 10 euros. Who won this 30 euro? I don't want to denounce charges or proclaim guilty as you do for us, but this is an objective event. As is also an objective fact - and the Greek people do not know - that the whole story with NoVARTIS was launched by the United States of America's Competition Commission, where American pharmaceutical companies denounced NoVARTIS that they unfairly took a large part of the pie from Greek and European markets. It has intervened in the investigation and the FBI, and, as you know, we have reached the elements that are present today which will be judged. I was very happy to hear the Minister for Justice of the Government say that the aim of the majority and I hope that the New Democracy will be the definitive abolition of this scandalous Article 86 of the so-called Ministerial Responsibility Act. According to him, we have often come to a comicotragic outcome of our own, as in the recent trial - the trials are still being convicted of Tsohatzopoulos as Minister of Defence and the Director-General of the Ministry of Defence, Sbokos, where the Tsohatzopoulos was convicted of dirty money laundering and who has been forfeited - so the law on the liability of ministers - and instead of the Sbokos, who has not found him a single euro in an illegal account, has been condemned for bribery. In other words, we have two people, two citizens, one former Minister and one ordinary citizen, and for the same crime one is condemned and the other is not condemned because his offence has been dropped. If this is not a violation of the basic article of the Constitution which says that Greeks are equal to the law, then what is it? I do not see any particular zeal in that direction. On the subject of Rule 86 I have repeatedly spoken to the House, and in particular on February 1st 2017 here - there are the minutes of the House, anyone can see them - I said that the suspension of articles of the Constitution is allowed when the country is in siege. And in this respect, it is in a state of moral siege. Why don't we hide behind our finger, people in the cafes, in the villages, in the neighborhoods, say all politicians are thieves. And that is obviously unfair to many and fair to others, perhaps. I therefore said that the entire House and the three hundred to vote to suspend this article of the Constitution, Article 86. And don't tell me that it would be unconstitutional, because many anti-constitutional laws have been passed by this Chamber and despite all the relevant decisions of the Council of State, they have not even been abolished. The Golden Dawn, beyond my speech, since 2012 when the Greek people honoured it with a celebrity entrance to the parliament of 7%, in its programme, in its political positions, has as a key issue the abolition of the law of "departmental responsibility" and parliamentary immunity. And that is why the Greek people have honoured the Greek people, despite the systematic war that has been accepted by all of you for six years. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] In Article 86, then, and in paragraph 1, it states in particular: ‘Only the Parliament shall have the power to prosecute against those who have been or have been members of the Government or of the undersecretary for criminal offences committed in the performance of their duties, as laid down in law’. And here I ask, if anyone is a minister and at night wears a mask, sports shoes and burglaries, does the Ministers' Responsibility Act cover him? Is it covered and within the framework of the limitation, if and in the event of bribery, that there should be a limitation on the responsibility of the Ministers? In the same paragraph, the following is mentioned, which is outrageous to me: 'It is forbidden to introduce specific ministerial offences'. I repeat: it is forbidden to introduce specific ministerial offences. In other words, if a man is a minister, his offense must not be peculiar. On the other hand, I believe that any offence of a minister should have been, precisely because of the fact that he holds a high position, to be peculiar. And so it happens in all states which have a sovereignty and a rule of law. In the same article, in the last paragraph, the following is stated: ‘If, for any other reason, including the limitation, the procedure concerning prosecution against a person who has become a member of the government is not completed, Parliament may, at the request of its own or of its heirs, set up a special committee to which maximum judicial officers may participate in the control of the category’. 'Like the stage of glorious glory!'. Those involved in this story, guilty or innocent, from now on to commit that even if their offence is described, they will ask for a special committee of judges and parliamentarians to be set up to decide on their innocence or guilt. But I didn't hear anyone say it from those who got on this step here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u865	Everyone said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u866	Did they say about this special committee? Oh, no. They said 'Let us be judged'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u867	They shall waive the limitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u868	Good. They're quitting the limitation. Did they talk about this special committee? If they mean that, then you're right. Of course, we, too, have a moral obligation and we respect the presumption of innocence, but, unfortunately, this House does not respect it. And since we are talking about interventions in justice - and if they were done badly, I do not know, I will be looking into this - I will submit a document that was tabled in the 'ENERGA' trial and it is the e-mail of the interrogator who has guarded us. It is noted that we were arrested on 28 September and 27 September, this particular interrogator responds to one of his colleagues and says: "I cannot attend our meeting, because I am attending a special meeting at the Ministry of Justice." Do you, after all, talk about interventions in justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u869	Who was the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u870	It was Mr Athanasios, who even took the floor and said before, that he took it to find out whether incidents took place at the Hopeful School. At the School of Hope there was no episode. And, at least, it is strange that a Minister should take from abroad the head of the courtroom in order to be informed. But I think that's another matter. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I come to another point about the so-called protectionist witnesses. First of all, for me all witnesses must be protected either by anonymous or surnames. We are now talking about another issue, about how so-called protectionist witnesses appear. So it says: In these cases, the protected witnesses, namely, cannot verify the veracity of the witness, since the identity and identity of the witness is unknown, and it is therefore impossible to question his motives, the existence of bias or prejudice against the defendant. In our trial it proved to be the prejudice of all these anonymous witnesses. Amazing Professor Manoledakis sets out a series of strict criteria, as he considers that there should be facts very specific to support the subjective sense of fear of the witness, such as anonymous phone calls, surveillance, sending packages to his home. None of this was in the case of Golden Dawn. And we met with five anonymous witnesses, the so-called protectors, who also testified in our trial. On this subject he wrote not some newspaper of ours, but the newspaper "Dimouratias". He wrote it a few days ago. "As long as they testify to protected witnesses in the Golden Dawn trial and no one protested. Now why is the pain?’ This question is addressed to you, ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy. Law 2928/2001 establishes protective measures for the witness. But that wasn't enough for you. And so by law of 2014 on the Government of New Democracy - PASOK was extended to cases of corruption. And what do we have today? The first case of anonymous witnesses to be the one concerning officials of the New Democracy and the PASOK. "Here is an eye trial, as long as the visions are. " What you legislated to legitimize the illegality against the Golden Dawn, you have it before you. We also have the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It is very clear and says that a decisive criterion for the ECHR is not to rely on the defendant's guilt to a decisive or exclusive extent on that anonymous testimony. If that happens, i.e. if the charge was ultimately based on a decisive or exclusive degree on the testimony of the anonymous witness, even if there was sufficient compensation, the trial will not meet the conditions of a fair trial, if the defence ignores the identity of the person examined or is potentially deprived of the details of those that will enable it to demonstrate that the person and the person examined is prejudiced, hostile or unreliable. Therefore, the position of Golden Dawn in the matter is very clear: Not to anonymous witnesses! To present themselves with their faces, to testify. And we say this by referring to our political opponents whom the government accuses and against whom we should have a vengeance - if you wish - spirit. In this respect, however, that is the law. There can be no anonymous witnesses. [[The ending bell of the speech time of the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn is ringing at this point.]] Give me some time, please. We were struck earlier when the former Prime Minister of New Democracy, Antonis Samaras spoke. Referring to the Golden Dawn, he said - you were here and you all heard it - features: "What I chased them after." So who chased us? Justice or Samaras? Decide why you're going out and saying about justice! No justice! It was a political deed! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And he also said, days ago, that there is no democracy in the world that accepts being tried by politicians with fixed anonymouss. Democracy his own with us indicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u871	Panthenamics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u872	Panthenamics. The case-file has come to the House, but the SYRIZA government and Mr Kammenos's party does not bring it into consideration. Correspondence has come here. We're waiting. In this way, as Mr Samaras said in the papers, there is an attempt to eliminate political opponents with sturdy trials. [[The ending bell of the speech time of the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, you will allow me some more time. We also had the statement by Evangelos Venizelos, Vice-President at the time of the government, who said that it is now officially clear that the three anonymous witnesses were examined without being previously declared as protected witnesses of public interest. What else happened to the Golden Dawn? That's exactly the thing. So why are you complaining? You have exactly what you are doing. We, as Golden Dawn, are voting in favour of the setting up of a Special Parliamentary Committee without anonymous witnesses, but we really hope that it will be clear. The newspaper "TEA" wrote that two major issues monopolize publicity: "NOVARTIS" Macedonian and "NOVARTIS" scandal. Our Macedonian is turning rapidly into the 1992 climate and the way in which the 'NOVARTIS' scandal was closed is going back to 1989. It is worth reminding us both in 1989 and 1992. In 1989 they said in the squares, "The thieves go to prison and purification". And no thieves went to jail and no clearance was made. And in 1992 with the rallyings, an entire people were betrayed, Macedonia's name was betrayed by a wicked, interim agreement that the government is coming out today and says, 'We will not give the term 'Macedonia', you have given it to us. Golden Dawn states from this official step forward that it will not betray the will of our nation in the field of the moral cleansing of political life, but also in the question of our Macedonia where there is no possibility of any concession. The Prime Minister came out and made a statement immediately after the grand rally of Syntagma Square. He said: "Some people, knowing very well what is coming, rushed to change their standing positions and found cover for the mobs of the rallys?" The hundreds of thousands of Greeks with the blues calling for faith, homeland, freedom. If they were to call for Cuba, Nicaragua, Che Guevara, it wouldn't be a mob, it would be a people. So this people were afraid of the Prime Minister, and so all of a sudden, one day after the symphony of the constitution, and here in this matter there is no evil manipulation - the 'NOVARTIS' scandal came. And they told us that the last witness was filed on February 4th, and that's why it came up. No, we don't. However, do not think that with the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, with the 'NOVARTIS' case, whatever the case may be, the Greek people will forget the issue of Macedonia. The messages coming from Thessaloniki, Athens, Düsseldorf, New York, where a great demonstration will take place in the next few days, are - and let it become clear to the government - the name of Macedonia is not sold, it is not delivered! And the New Democracy's fellow Members commit that if they become a government, they will suspend diplomatic relations with Skopje if they have the term Macedonia in their name. Because we hear generalities. We don't hear specific things. Mr Kumoucasos said, 'We do not want a name that will not be acceptable to the people'. I have not heard you say, 'We do not want the name Macedonia'. I wish you would say so and we will be in agreement on this matter. Inside all this, the Turkish threat. We saw the new challenges in Imia, on plot 3 of the Cypriot shelve. On the issue of the Immigrations, America came out and made an official announcement - the State Department - which states that "Turkey and Greece have long established diplomatic routes to deal with the issues in the Aegean. We encourage all parties to take measures to degrade the situation.’ And all this, when the 1996 Simitis agreement comes to light, which says, no flags, no ships, no Army bodies, and no man to run into Imia. I am ashamed as a Greek that a Greek cannot go to Imia and put a Greek flag! It's a disgrace to that thing! As it is shameful that casus belli will be a threat of war and that Greece has not resorted to the United Nations. Turkey is threatening us. It's for granted. But that is not what Mr. Kotzias, who at his TV interview at the “ALPHA” station said: “I say to Erdogan, Allah threw us here. You will live with us peacefully, as the arrow says or you will cause problems." First of all, Mr. Kotzias should know that Allah didn't put us here, but a Mongolian raid, which keeps our nation against the Turks at war for a thousand years. From Manjiquert to Imia, we're fighting the Turkish threat. And of course, it's funny to say it's peaceful. What? The horn, which, with the horn, started in an Asian desert, from an Arab desert, and reached the Pyrenees and the gates of Vienna. Golden Dawn is fighting for a proud homeland. He is struggling to go - if there are - thieves in prison, but he is also fighting for a proud Greece beyond the doctrine of Greek-Turkish friendship, which is a great and deadly fraud. Hellenism on the subject of Macedonia is clear. He won't let the ethnicly-negative plans pass. He'll resist. Whatever you vote for, he'll throw it in the bucket of the unusable ones of history! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u873	Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor. Mr. Leventis, try not to dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u874	What did you say? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u875	I said try not to dawn, as far as possible to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u876	Good evening to everyone and everyone, or rather good night, to be more expensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u877	Or rather good morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u878	I don't know how we managed today to be a fusser. How did we do it? What's the matter? Maybe it's nothing to blame, maybe the irritation. One of the most unfortunate things in Parliament is to discuss the referral of some colleagues. This is one of the most unpleasant things and does not look forward to honour - to know - especially when the country is the only thing that every reasonable person feels is consensus and understanding of political forces. When, in other words, the people ask for consultation, we are preparing trials and changing the House to court. That doesn't agree with me. Will you tell me, if there's any evidence that some of them were stolen - say it popular - we shouldn't do that too? But this is not a matter of health. It's a case that's been over for years. I don't think some people were stolen last year. It's a case of decades. The prices of medicines, the various funds, the battle of companies among themselves, the oilings are the usual ones in a capitalist system. That's the battle. The Americans have private insurance. 95% of their insurance system is private insurance. In almost 90% of us, 95% are state-owned insurance. And it is a ministries' system. In other words, there is no decision on the prices of medicinal products by the service providers. Any responsible consultant or member of the committee will appeal to the Minister to ask him how he will handle it. It is therefore very dangerous to bribe some in a ministreal system, which insurance is a state-owned institution. It is very likely that no one can rule it out. The Americans are looking for "NOVARTIS", not because they are afraid of not taking it from the president or from a minister, but trying to reduce the cost of medicine. Because Obama - Care needs to know what it consists of. It is recommended in President Obama's effort to include in insurance and crowds of people who were uninsured. Obama fought at the same cost, pharmaceutical and medical costs, to secure a percentage of people who were uninsured. This is Obama - Care. Trump tried to stop it, but he didn't leave Congress, you know it, and so the same effort goes on. So the tests and investigations by the Americans are to reduce expenditure, trying to increase the number of people insured as much as they can. That's what the Americans do. We've been leaving it in his luck for a while. Some former Minister interviewed some channel. When the journalists were persistently asking him "you see that the expenditure is being launched upwards, what did you do?" he was not answering. After they asked him, "Are you sure your associates didn't take them? He answered: 'I alone am sure of myself'. Listen to the answer he gave Minister! What's that now? What answer is that? It's like he was saying, I might in my environment get it. That's what makes me think. That's not the answer of a accused minister. When they asked him, "Do you put your hand in the Gospel for your environment?" he did not say that he puts his hand on it. He said that only for himself can he say. My view is that the names of the two former Prime Ministers were wrongly included in the indictment. It is not an honour for the country, at the moment to comment on Europe and the world as a whole that two former Prime Ministers may have taken them. If Mr. Tsipras thinks this will help him, even in election votes, it is wrong. I told him at Mr. Tsipras' last date that in one of the last - before George Rallys died, I happened to be at his house - our meetings with George Rally, who was our political opponent to us Centroons, but he was a human level and had a culture, and I accused George Rally of Constantine Karamanlis of the Zurich and London agreements. I told him that those agreements were made, because they gave Turks the concept of a guarantee of power, and with these Zurich and London agreements Turkey finally got away from Cyprus. George Rallys told me that it might be true that those agreements were disastrous, but don't say bad words about Prime Minister. I told him that, why aren't we all in crisis? He told me that those who sit in the Prime Minister's chair, Mr Leventis, and I remember it as it is at this moment - even scoundrels being, since they have been sworn, have a responsibility. I propose to this Chamber that Mr. Tsipras be well thought out by the time of the vote, both of Mr. Samaras and Mr. Pirramenos, to take it out, because it is not good for him to be prosecuted against former Prime Ministers, and why Mr. Tsipras should know that what he is doing now for his opponents will find it before him for himself. I'm making a little prophecy. He's got an hour till the vote. Let him listen to one by a few years longer, with much more experience than he himself in politics. Let him become Prime Minister, I dare say that I have walked Greece a hundred times and he has not walked even half. You say that with the 20 billion of the scandal the country went bankrupt. The country, ladies and gentlemen, has been bankrupt for years. He's bankrupt with the ruffles of PASOK, the New Democracy. Isn't that right? He has been bankrupt by public works, by recruitment, by illegality and scandals of all kinds. It's all gone bankrupt. Why are you only counting 20 billion of health? The Baroufakis ones, they don't get caught, where strangers counted them? They don't get caught? Do you want this to happen to you? I think, therefore, that if we catch in that country 'because we are bankrupt', we will go far behind. We're going to the time when there were weapons programs illegally. And SYRIZA is not a new party. You're the legacy of PASOK. Don't think, surfing PASOK, you guys are clean. I see that all Greece sees you as the successor of a collapsed PASOK. This is SYRIZA. I went to Loutraki, where the president of the prefecture of Loutraki in PASOK has become SYRIZA. In many regions of Greece the presidents of the prefectures of PASOK have changed to presidents of the prefectures of SYRIZA. Therefore, do not say 'you and us' because the votes with which you came to the government, the 34% rate you took are votes that were very happy with PASOK. They were assigned, entered offices, in the evening they went to PASOK, in the morning they were hired to PPC. By such votes you entered the government. Don't think you're innocent of bankruptcy. Poverty is a culture of disrespect, indecisive to public money. This austerity you received and don't think the world is totally in agreement. At first, she voted for you, thinking she'd keep the privileges of the public sector. That's why she voted for you. He left Venizelos who cut pensions and salaries in the public sector and came to SYRIZA to maintain his possessions. That's why he came to you. I'm telling you, I'm lying? And what did you do? In the private sector, all fire. The private sector pays everything for three years. Did a civil servant pay? Okay, some wages were cut, some pensions, but the private sector went Germany, the private sector is unemployed, it eats on metropolitans. Let's tell the truth. At least the civil servants get the elementary salary. So, your promise that the pasokziers who came to you save themselves, you kept it. But you were not interested in the rest of them. The Left, ladies and gentlemen, has always been against bilateralism. You and that you abolished. You made the Left one of the two poles of bicommunism. The Left has always had a value because it has fought against the two poles of power. It was anti-powerful ideology the Left. You have now turned it into power and fought to hold on to the position of the old PASOK. A hole in the water you do in common. The important thing would be to stay in your line and in your ideology and not take the place of one of the two poles of bipartism. I've stressed that in procurement matters, every next government can send the prosecutor the previous ones. That's very simple. I've asked for a prosecuting attorney over a million euros. That's right, whether it's about Defense or anything else. In other words, whatever Mr. Kammenos may now order, who is my friend, a government can tell him tomorrow, "Sir, you ordered them from there, because there..." What's he gonna say? He will say, 'No, I was honest?' It doesn't prove. It is good that there is always a permanent cross-party presence in such matters. So in the presence of SYRIZA, the Centro Association, etc. Not alone. Why would he go and order himself? How do I know what he's doing? And it's easy then to blame. Same in public works, same everywhere. The presence of a public prosecutor in major contracts, whether they are commissions or public works, makes the procedure transparent and ensures that the Minister is not referred to tomorrow as a defendant. That's what the House has to do. The Minister may lose authority, but he may lose authority and gain peace rather than be a candidate indicted tomorrow. He's better off losing power. What can make it power when the next government can accuse him of being bribed? Mr. Stournaras came here and said, his wife, the wife, the other. Does she have such a great wife? He didn't realize that when he took such positions, should he also tell his wife a stop? A stopper shouldn't say? I'll say the same for Mitsotakis' wife, who burned a house that sells clothes the other day. Mitsotakis goes for Prime Minister now. That's what he says. I don't know what fate holds him. That's another matter. He must not say to his wife, "Who are you now a woman of the Prime Minister?" Possibly. Shouldn't he brake? I consider that fundamental respect for the person of her husband is to brake whatever activities she had. We're not going to stop a man's right to act. So Mr Stournaras came here and said that this contract did not get much, that in the other contract, at the medical conference, he did not get much. He was apologizing for everything. In public life we become cosmos, if we want to have a clean front in front of society. We can't be prime ministers and play the stock market and have offshore. This thing can't be done. It is inconsistent with the office of the seriousness you bring. I want to say two words for Skopje. In Skopje, I don't understand. Mitsotakis has gone now, says, in Germany and saw some people and has asked to leave the UFOs. That's what I get. What does it mean? In the Constitution something to leave, etc. The name, she didn't tell us, she's taking it? I want a clear word, guys, not for any other reason, but because all the ten million Greeks need to know which parties they give and who they don't give. I understand, however, that Tsipras gives the word Macedonia. That's what I get. And you're just saying we're tired, that a hundred and fifty states have recognized, that we're losers anyway. Boutaris came out and said, "We lost children," as if he were playing at the casino. He lost. He played the roulette and lost. I want clear words from all parties. And from Mr. Kammenos, I'm going to ask. Why doesn't Kammenus give it? He's involved in a government that gives it the name. Mr. Kammenus, allow me. You said you wouldn't fire the government. The government is trying to name Macedonia with other votes, with the KIC, with the PASOK. He's trying with others. They say no from PASOK. But where you go to the channels, you say yes. You say the same thing. You're only saying alpha-corrosives and you're not saying anything about the name. And that's very suspicious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u879	Mr President, the name has already been named.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u880	Oh, is that why you're giving her? Because he's already given it. Clear things here. The Greek people must know. I'll tell you straight. I invited the American ambassador and said to him: "You have been disgraceful. Because our relatives voted Carter to help Greece and he lifted the arms embargo to Turkey. Carter betrayed Hellenism." "On the junta you embraced the junta, the Americans. If you are now disgraceful to support the name of Macedonia, that is to say, the soul of Greece will be torn apart from the body of Greece, then you will lose Greece by an ally." Because what's the point of having an ally when Imia says: take the boats. Here, you too. But we took them from Greek territory while the Turks took them from foreign territory. Look at the Americans' nice neutrality. What a beautiful neutrality! Their ships were taken by Turks from foreign territory. The Turks from Greek territory took them away and left while we took them and left Greek territory without protection, ladies and gentlemen. And that is essentially treason, to tell the truth. It's a betrayal of Greek territory not to be protected by the fleet. Here, it's clear. If the Americans are pushing... Because he accepted that the Russians do not want a solution and the Americans insist. That was accepted. Tsipras has told me that this is a war between America and Russia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u881	Mr President, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u882	If the Americans insist that we give, ladies and gentlemen, the name Macedonia, an old friendship between the two peoples is over. It's over and out. You should all know that. In addition to knowing something else: history is not easily swallowed. The memorials one, two, three, four - vote more in August - are swallowed. Because the people know that at great sacrifices or going abroad, escaping, they may rise up again. But when Macedonia's name is given to Skopje, the soul of Greece will be rooted. Anyone who does will have serious consequences, ladies and gentlemen. It will have very great consequences, which Mr Tsipras doesn't imagine how big it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u883	The President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u884	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to speak last from the political leaders and listen very carefully to those who are involved in this case and the positions of the parties and the rapporteurs and fellow Members. The debate today is a debate which will continue as long as Greece insists on maintaining in its Constitution Article 86 on the special protection of political persons and the obsolete law on the liability of Ministers which Mr Venizelos has voted on. It is clear that in order to change Article 86 of the Constitution there is a constitutional change. In order to abolish the law on the liability of Ministers, a two-thirds majority of Parliament is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, we must vote immediately - and everyone must take responsibility - to abolish the law on the responsibility of Ministers, to abolish this law, which Mr Venizelos has explained today, is part of the duties of the ministers of a minister. If the Minister has raped his secretary, he shall not be in the performance of his duties. If the Minister takes it, he shall be considered as part of his duties. The Independent Greeks have tabled an amendment and I ask, ladies and gentlemen, from all the parties, that this amendment be voted on immediately. We cannot be faithful to the Greek people while we continue to protect the political system with such findings. Because such findings give the initiator of this law the right to come here and move the finger. We all heard Mr. Venizelo today, who said what? In other countries, he says, there is the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, but there are no political persons. But, of course, there are no political persons, because there is no Venizelos and there is no Venizelos law. And political persons, once justice has found that they have been illegal, are normally brought to justice without any protection and are tried. And these people involved in the 'NOVARTIS' in the other countries of the European Union are normally tried. We have heard more incredible today, and I think that if the Greek people were able to see this whole process, they would have found a return after all, after a long time, after electoral procedures, of the past in the House, of the Samara-Venizelos coup d'état and of the results of this coup d'état, a coup d'état that turned to the overlap, which turned to cooperation in order to relieve one another. It led to people entering the political scene in both parties that would not be tolerated until that time. Top right-wing elements, which Karamanlis called extremities, to be the main executives of the New Democracy and officials who would not approach the PASOK, to be in the same chairs today and to cooperate. That is why speakers have explained here. I have listened very carefully to Mr Kontonis who spoke about the submarine case. Who's checked for the submarine case? Mr. Venizelos. Who covered him? Mr. Athanasios. He kept the case in the drawer until the last minute in order to cover his government partner. So this is the truth that arises from this debate. But there's something else coming up. Two different worlds arise. It emerges from one side, the one who is controlled and feared and is afraid of a threat. And who's that? He is the one who had the nerve in the Committee of Inquiry on Equipment and TOR - M1, the number of accounts of money trafficking to report to them as telephone numbers. Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Loverdos. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, the headlines of that time? How was Ace unjusted? I believe that the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry - it is not here - remembers very well what threats were heard to that committee, because some of us dared to say that these accounts should be checked and the committee of inquiry closed with the signature of Mr Venizelos and Mr Loverdos, saying that the account numbers were telephone numbers and 15 years later it proved that they were accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, other things have been heard here. We have heard Mr Venizelos, the man who took part in the Simitis government, the man who sat on the same ministerial benches with Theodoros Pangalos, who said that the flag must be taken by the air in Imia, dare to speak about national matters and the Imias, dare to threaten this government here. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am going to ask as a Member of Parliament, but also as a Minister of National Defence, is from such discussions to leave national issues out. The Imia are Greek islands, which are protected by the Hellenic Armed Forces and by the Greek Coast Guard, the Port Body. No one's questioning them. We protect them and defend them. And we do that all Greeks. We do it regardless of party. National issues should be left unavoidable, as should the Armed Forces of the country. But let us go to the NOVARTIS case. Is there a NOVARTIS scandal? At the beginning of the debate there were voices that there was no 'NOVARTIS' scandal and that it was a whole project, built by political opponents. Corrected by the Chief of Staff Response and said: “Yes, there is a “NOVARTIS” scandal.” Of course, there is a 'NOVARTIS' scandal, because this scandal is not a scandal that only concerns Greece. It concerns many countries in the European Union and outside the European Union. But it has a focus on Greece. Is there any money paid by the Greek people and lost by this scandal? It's a given fact that they exist. The billions were the euros given by the Greek budget, the legacy of the Greek people over the years and some politicians signed. So, are there ministers that signed? Of course there are. The operating ministers, who must be checked for the complainants. Are there any meetings of advisors, Prime Ministers, Ministers, which are clearly described? With hours, calendars, evidence, videos, people say. It should not therefore be considered by the committee responsible who met with whom, why did they meet and what emerged from these meetings? Are there political decisions by Prime Ministers, which have to do with the replacement of ministers who have not agreed to execute the orders of pharmaceutical companies or of the Prime Ministers themselves? There are also in the case-file, but this is where we heard them. I was shocked today at the Salma deposit. Mr Salmas actually said that he was replaced by the Ministry of Health because he did not do the carpets of these pharmaceuticals, the multinationals. Keep the drugs down to 50%. He didn't accept to put on the new drugs. He didn't succumb to extortion and, of course, he was fought. Yes, he was. And what happened? Replaced. Who was it from? By the Prime Minister, who is accused of being in constant consultation - he and his advisers - with these companies who used various ways, as the witnesses are alleged to say, in order to influence the public life of the place. They are facts for which no one can be doubted. Are there any journalists, public relations, intermediate companies, which took money at specific times, associated with specific decisions, consisting of specific persons? Of course there are. Mr. Griveau's case is not a new case. We've met her in five scandals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u885	A fugitive.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u886	A fugitive. Mr Griveau's companies together with Mrs Vatsika - I will remind older colleagues - are the ones where we were looking for the CDS case. It's why I removed from New Democracy from Mr. Samaras, the Swiss companies that were filed with the corruption prosecutor, but the case did not go any further and the accounts did not open, because some have decided to lead justice to the non-investigation of the case. Let me see now, will the bills be opened to these companies? Are there any other journalists who are alleged to be mediators in order to influence ministers? The file is clear. The “BIMATO”, which appears to have been “Mounter-taker”, and beyond the comments he wrote against certain political opponents, along with another friend of the journalist, Ms. Fytanidou, had in the name of Ms. Fytanidou's husband in Cyprus, who took 200 thousand euros, to be given laundered to a minister who allegedly changed and made a decision on a particular medicine. Shouldn't this case be investigated? Are there any of these faces? Are the same faces we met at the CDC? This lady, Mrs. Fytanidou, has filed a lawsuit against me because she says I accused her of taking them from the CDC and then withdrew the lawsuit. Mr Kourtakis and Mr Jenos of PARAPOLITICA filed complaints against me for 1.5 million and lost them. Persons who appeared in the press, but also in public life as executive guns. We're looking for the things that you had to do with politicians. There is a journalist, Mr. George Papachristos, against whom I have filed and won lawsuits, for which he has been writing about me at times. He's been blocked by accounts in Greece. At the time you were alleged to have some millions in Switzerland, and one must resort to Switzerland in order to compensate for his slandering discrediting, carrying out the debts of a centenary gun against political opponents. We paid drugs, vaccines, reagents more than ten times? Of course we paid! Where does it come from? Of the ministers themselves who are alleged to be inspected. What does Salmas write when he testifies to Ryku again? Because now I've seen his statements and of course in the United States, because that's another story I'll talk about later. That these reagents and vaccines, while the other European countries paid for 14 euros - the Nile virus - I am talking about AIDS - are coming here with 40 euros. And when Minister Salmas goes and tells them "I don't pay this money", they say: "We give you the 2 million agreed by Loverdos, the former Minister, and we give you free of charge the time that this Minister has asked for the reagents." Which company does it for free, and for what reason? I'm talking about Egyptian pond fever. There are more than ten times the needs, and who ordered them? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister of National Defence and President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Panos Kammenos is ringing.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. And to go a little further, because I heard a lot about the conspiracy theory that SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks built them, I asked: What are the persons involved? Is the FBI affected by the SYRIZA Government? Who testified to the FBI? How did the witnesses get there? When did we learn "Novtis"? I heard today: "How did you know, Minister, about "NOVARTIS"?" But, "NOVARTIS" I was the first to hear in the summer of 2015 and 2016 on Nicolopoulou's emissions, where the candidate Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Sarakis, the lawyer who handled the witnesses and went to America, said he was leaving to go to America to testify with witnesses and even talked about videos. Why did Mr. Mitsotakis not invite Mr. Sarakis, who is a candidate of the New Democracy to tell him exactly? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Did you erase him? I know she also voted in the previous elections. That's what they tell us. So, Mr. Sarakis, why didn't he tell you what he's going to do in America, who are the witnesses? Why does the Minister, Mr. Salmas, give the three reports of the inspectors he caused and return with an FBI seal back to Mrs. Toulopakis and he is on the file? 'Cause of course you did. On Nicolopoulou's show and on the show "KANDRA". However, on 1 November, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Health, which is now operating has left here with a van, with a coach, and I saw that Mr Georgiodas, Mr Metarakis and Mr Nikolaopoulos were inside. And they went to Mrs. Tulupakis who informed them about "NOVARTIS" that she would leave and go to America to get the forensics. Is that a lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u887	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u888	Well, it's true. So you knew that Mrs Tulupaki was going to America to get the information from the FBI for those who are controlled for "NOVARTIS". [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So Mr Paulakis didn't know and he tweeted it beforehand. You officially knew it as a committee of Parliament. And of course, since you have not been informed by Mr Sarakis, you have been informed by your Members. And if you hadn't been informed by your Members, you should have been informed by the committee of Parliament which met. Three points are raised by the Committee on Health. He is involved in the CEDEFOP; he is involved in the NOVARTIS project, and he is involved in the 'ERRIKOS DANTAN'. So, then, one cannot say that he did not know, just cramped things right now, because statements accompanying evidence are coming. And I ask the following question: The witnesses who testified to the United States with advice from whom they testified? Let me reply to you: with Mr Sarakis' advice as a lawyer and with the encouragement of the Minister of Health to go and testify to the truth. Former Minister of Health says he also got a ticket to go and last minute canceled. And I'm talking about Mr. Salma. That is why - today a moment ago I spoke with the Group of Independent Greeks - we propose that Mr Salma go to testify here and in America. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] And we will not prevent him from being considered. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 Mr Nikolaopoulos asked a question to Parliament, to which he referred to 'NOVARTIS' and to specific elements. The Minister of Health answered with specific evidence. The question is public, in a public procedure in Parliament. Is there "orphan" money? Is there a money route? Of course there's a money route. The same persons mentioned by advertising companies, which are on the Lagard list, are in Paradise Islands, are in other CDS procedurals, the same persons are the mediators - consultants currently being examined. For example, the famous Mr. Papastavrous. There's no list that won't be inside. It's on the Lagard list, it's on the Paradise Islands list, it's in "NOVARTIS". And when Mr Papastavrou caught him with EUR 5.4 million "orphan", his answer was that they were not his. And what did he do? He went and paid 4 million euros to the CIFF in order to get the impunity. In other words, the EUR 5.4 million was not his own, but it was kept for someone else, it gives us another EUR 4 million of a hat, to have the impunity, it refers to 'NOVARTIS' and you tell us that there is no money route. Shouldn't the Papastavros money be considered? Is it the ministers or the Prime Ministers of those described in "NOVARTIS"? And why do you want to cover it up? It is in no interest to cover it up, because anyone who covers it will be responsible for depreciating the whole political world. The doctors get them? Of course the doctors do. And the doctors who take them will be examined. The question is, however, which ministers sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u889	Not everyone, Pano, some doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u890	Some doctors. I'll take it, Maki. And of course these doctors will have to apologize for the other doctors who don't get them. What is important, ladies and gentlemen, is to see what has happened in the past, how the famous committees of inquiry have been set up, with what categories. The Prime Minister's reported Vatopedi had two dead, Yannis Angelos and Vangelis Bassiakos. Again with a hoodman - they say - a witness who had no hood, a name testified. What was the result of justice? After Angelus died, after Basiaco left, the defendants were innocent. Who set it up? Those who blame the current government: PASOK, the same people who told us that there are telephone numbers the accounts of Papantoniou and Tsohazopoulou, the same people responsible for the changes made to the health laws. I heard Mr. Loverdo threatening. Do you know who threatened me first? Tsukatos. He filed a complaint against me for 1 million euros, because, he says, I offended him when I said he took 1 million marks to give it to PASOK. Today comes the PASOK cashier and it turns out that they don't have the 1 million euro, but 15 million black people found it in cash and were lost. But PASOK has changed VDU and remains today, and it also controls us and moves the finger and tells us about the Imias! And sadly, the New Democracy, instead of going out and crucifying them for what New Democracy has suffered from PASOK, with the new "transmissions" of Samara being an advocate of defending PASOK. In the same bucket! And they insist in here. I am sorry that after Mr Samaras showed up and threatened the whole House, he threatened the government, threatened Mr. Mitsotakis that he would take him back on the subject of Macedonia's name, as he threw Constantine Mitsotakis. He came here to do a policy lesson by Mr. Samaras telling him, in fact, that "if you don't support me and if you don't all get up to applaud, I will overthrow you, as I overthrow your father." Mitsotakis got up to talk. But instead, he said, too! He said that the country was being destroyed a moment ago, while it was speaking - the family has the fascination - the house "MODY'S" uploaded Greece for its credit rating by two units. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, the same threats, the same trabucism of the para-states that Samaras carried to New Democracy for many years. I was called indicted on the committee of inquiry because I spoke, he says, with a convict who wanted to report to me a shipowner, Mr. Marinakis, for the circulation of accounts. I apologized for an entire afternoon. And I ask: did the accounts submitted by this barbecue finally lead to anything or to a dead end? Is the investigation still going on? Was it worth the effort to turn New Democracy into a political arm of Marinakis to protect him from our slandering, or did these accounts actually lead to proof that the mine was hiding from its publishing complexes and political mechanisms? You can sue and sue as many as you want. We don't have to fear any inquiries, no civil or criminal courts, who haven't put a finger on honey. And don't think you're intimidating anyone. And the Tsukats met both the Chohatzopoulos and the Samarades and the Georgians. Of course he has a cost. I have heard Mr Mitsotakis say "They are attacking my family". What are you doing to me? I'm the one who killed my father, because you decided you'd get everything offshore company with a recreation boat that controlled the ILO and proved to be completely clean. They didn't blame him for a single euro. He died of cancer, because you liked to write on the headlines of the newspaper "Ta News" that "Cammen has offshore". You checked me from 2009 to 2014. Result of control by the IORP? Zero. Kurtakis was dating and said my children were terrorists and anarchists and friends of the Polia Rupa. Two years in jail. Tomorrow's the other court. Will any of you have a defence witness come in? Don't we have families? Don't we have kids? Don't you understand that while you continue this trabucism that Samaras sold from here, this trabukism leads the political life of the country elsewhere? It will lead to you tomorrow, and neither will Tsipras nor the government, because we are not using such methods. The political life of the place is thus divided, between those who are led by specific interests and become political arms of criminal organisations, publishers, pharmaceutical companies, multinationals and pimps and others of whom we may be separated from ideological differences, but at least we can look at each other in the eyes. Of course, I disagree with the Government on the handling of the issue of the name of Macedonia. I've said it in public. And I'll do anything, Mr. Leventis, to stop it. Of course, I will not just vote for the name 'Macedonia' not to be delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u891	But your partners?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u892	So I answer you. And I'm saying it in public. He's not coming, Mr. Leventis. To make constitutional changes they take ten years. The New Democracy to see what it will do, because Mr Mitsotakis - the citizen today - said that if we make changes to the perfume, it would vote. It's the Cyriakos outside and the Cyriakos inside. Kammenos is both outside and internal and holds the same positions. My relationship with the government and Alexis Tsipras is a relationship of honesty. And they disagree with me in many ways, but we have the Greek people's obligation and mandate - this people's mandate gave us in 2012 and 2015 - to find people in this Parliament who disagree to stop pimps from controlling the political world, pay bags and through public relations companies the political life of the country. And when the time comes, they are forced to find them with political forces, not in order to serve the national unity, but the national cover, as Samaras led with Venizelos the New Democracy and the PASOK. So, Mr President, first of all - and I leave it for Mr Samaras - an article by Mr Panagiotis Baltakos, Secretary-General of the Government of Samaras - Venizelos, who talks about the non-deleting of corruption and the assessment of Samara - Georgia. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence and Presidents of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to say that we will vote in favour of the committee's recommendation. We will serve the committee. At the same time, I declare that, as far as Mario Salma is concerned, following his speech and the proof that he contributed this case to Greek justice and the United States, the MPs will vote consciously. I personally will not ask for his referral to facilitate his work as a witness to testify on this dirty case. I am sure that very soon there will be results.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u893	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u894	Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the excellent honour of listening to the Prime Minister, and I have to answer the questions he raised. I have the special honor of being followed by me. I don't know how long it'll last! So Mr. Tsipras is a system absent from the House when Mrs. Gennamas speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u895	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u896	You'll hear more. Be patient! If, then, Mr Tsipras had listened to Mrs. Gennimata, the question of whether there was a scandal or a construction would have been answered, because Mrs. Gennimata said there was also a scandal and a construction. We, as PASOK, with great institutional changes and interventions fought the causes of the scandal. You today build guilty men and conspire. That's our difference. But what I don't understand about Mr. Tsipras is that he's too young to have a memory loss. This usually comes to older ages. Because Mr Tsipras in his position failed to mention many things. It omitted to refer in particular to the period over which the pharmacy expenditure, which was multiplied by the period of the Karamanlis governance 2004-2009. Mr Tsipras did not tell us where he was at that time, when we in this Chamber tabled dozens of questions every year about the development of pharmaceutical expenditure and when they answered us, we found that yes, he went upwards. I don't know where Mr. Tsipras was when the New Democracy Government brought down the list here. Do you remember that New Democracy advertising in the 2004 elections where a housewife went to the folk and was shopping oranges and said that "now that we're going to abolish the list, I'm gonna take the drugs of my choice"? Well, they abolished the list, we warned them, and the expenditure went from 2.1 billion to 6.5 billion. Is Mr. Tsipras, with his partner, Mr. Kammenos, who was Minister of Government of Karamanlis who took out the expenditure, slander and persons and political groups, trying to identify us, who since 2010 have fought to fight the scandal by introducing the lowest price, by e-prescription, with the EOPY, with the generics that you were fighting them - where is Mr. Kurublis now? Can I remind you what he was saying here? That these are for third-worlders - with the New Democracy to serve a political design. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we have entered an electoral planning of the government - and we are all aware of this - and he has a record that collapses, the clean exit, has the national leader Mr Tsipras, who will solve the scorpion but is offended by his Minister Kammenos who, just before this step, told him that he will not bring anything. Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias say 'Here we will bring it' and his Minister is causing him. Of course, this case is turning us back, because it is turning us into the 1992 split, into the scepticism, and it is turning us into the 1989 scandal. He said it himself, referring to Andreas Papandreou and Koskotas. It turns us back to the economy, because Mr. Tsipras celebrated the upgrading of 'MODY' S', namely that we returned to 2014 - that is, we regained after labor, sacrifices and losses of 100 billion euros - where we were at that time. So that's what Mr. Tsipras said, and that's what he forgot to say. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] As far as Mr Kammenos is concerned, which has just come down from the Step, the six sykophant, I despise myself because he is the permanent conspiracy officer and the hybrid of everything. He from this Step shouted "On the four." However, I would like to remind him that he is denouncing Mr Venizelos on the submarines, that he is licking where he is, because they are now going to Venizelos to support the country in the face of the SAFA regime and tomorrow he brings a new amendment to give more money. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And we told Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Tsipras and everyone else that we are serving our loans with the same VAT. If they have the courage, let them go to the prosecutor's finances as we did. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, this table was tabled by Mrs Gennamas. I will present him again to see the differences in policies that were or were spent between 2004 and 2009 and where he went down with our own interventions. Of course, when the New Democracy was set up, it continued the policy which Mr Tsipras fought and his parliamentary group had taken together. I remember Mr Kurubli being hit on these benches in 2013, as Mr Georgiadis said earlier. And you're not telling me, ladies and gentlemen, after you made this construction, Mr. Kurublis, who said earlier that he was not honoring himself, but that the committee, why do you leave him outside and give him the opportunity to surrender? So Mr. Georgiadis is guilty of invoices while Mr. Kourublis isn't guilty? These are two yards and two weights. So I'll finish with what I started this morning. I said that as a Democratic Institution we would go beyond the procedural terminology and the traps to shine the truth, to be examined for everyone and for all. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the question remains, Mr President, I told Mr Voutsis this morning - 'The agenda and the recommendation of...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u897	Now we're in the other morning, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u898	As long as it takes. I am talking about the proposal from the SYRIZA Members, which the rapporteur repeated this morning. And we have asked whether it will be a regular examination, that is to say if the hooded and the other witnesses will be called here, if Mrs Ryku comes, whether there will be a confrontation with the indictees, whether the case will be investigated in depth, because Mr Tsipras said, 'We will not cover anyone'. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, in its operative part, says that they have been banned. You're going to hide behind the limitation to keep the mud. Well, we will not legitimise it and take you to the end, asking for a substantial examination of the case, so that the truth can shine for all the defendants.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u899	But as far as we are concerned, as far as we are concerned, I would say to rescue urban democracy and procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u900	Is that urban democracy? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u901	Please, sit down. Where did the “As long as needed” sound? Where did you find this "as long as you need" written? Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u902	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, NOVARTIS scandal exists. The documents of the case are insignificant. I refer to the seven thousand pages and not to the ninety which came to Parliament and which concern political persons. The evidence of felony execution is many and undeniable. Testimonial testimonies constitute a trick. Thousands are doctors who actively participated in the smuggling of public money. Tens of thousands are the patients who do well and wonder if they took drugs without having to. Hundreds of thousands are the citizens who will pay out of their pockets the broken ones. They're paying now. They're paying today. They pay it through the memoirs. This, and only I personally, are enough to say directly that there are political guilty persons, that there are political responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen, great ones, and that of some political persons. There are political responsibilities, because the policies you have followed have led the country to the memoranda. With such policies, we have entered the memorials. Because of these policies, the country's public debt has been characterised as unsustainable. I'm really sorry, but the reason for me bringing political responsibility is simple. This has been done for your days. That's what happened under your nose. But! There's a big one, but. The "but" is recommended that you yourself, who have political responsibility, have made sure that you plant this "but" in the Greek Constitution. You have taken care in time of the vote on a spurious law that we cannot talk about the real problem today. Today, without any concern about what the citizens are thinking, they are trying to defend themselves, not by proving that they did a good job or that they served conscientiously to Greek citizens, but that their indictment is not tied up, how the formal and bureaucratic procedures have not been observed, how the sums charged to them are small, how the witnesses are paid "collaps" that government, judges, American prosecutors, are manufacturers. Today we finally understand what this notorious monster of bureaucracy serves. Today the citizens understand why the laws have become rags. Today, the reluctance of all those over the last few decades had the opportunity to change something and they did not. My conscience does not allow me to accept without evidence that the allegedly involved in the litigation were bribed and damaged the country. The case-file involves political persons with assessments and assumptions. It is not enough to have the information at our disposal. There is little room for justice to be managed until now. That's the truth today. As it is true, and that is where the questions are born, that what was known to all Greeks was unknown to those who were responsible. It doesn't just matter what someone did during his term of office. It is important that what he did not do during his term of office, and he could do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that today we should also talk about the NOVARTIS scandal. We're probably out of time. Last night the Italian platform got up and left Cyprus. She's going to Morocco. Last night, then, Greece proved incapable of defending Cyprus. Last night we had a great national defeat and no one's talking in this Chamber. Since yesterday morning, we should talk about this defeat and try to answer just one question: what is Turkey afraid of and what is being calculated by Turkey? As history has shown us, one thing only fears and calculates Turkey: In case the Chief of Police Response, Mr. Mitsotakis, emerged and repeated as another Andreas Papandreou the urge "drink the Hora". With a statement from Thrace at the time, the then Chief of Officerial Response, the Turks collected them and left the Aegean and patiently started to wait for those days when the Greeks would no longer agree, but they would eat among themselves. These days are here today. It's been two and a half years here these days. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. The only thing that Turks fear, that is, the Greeks' unanimity, this only does not exist, has been exiled by this country. And that is why the government and opposition are equally responsible. History will write nothing about the reasons we eat among ourselves. History will just write that because we were eating each other we were defeated. Before I come down from the Step, I would like to give you a bitter statement made by all those who are attending today's sitting. There has not been a politician, even a politician among us, in this country - for years now, it has never been - who has arrived here and who passes what goes through to take political responsibility. No one was found to come back and say: "I wasn't bribed, I didn't steal, but I have a responsibility for what happened over my days. I have a responsibility and I take it, for what has been done in my term and I go home." We've never heard that from anyone. The regeneration of the country will begin at the time when the country's political staff will learn to tell truths in here and the country's political staff will learn to take responsibility, not only on the issues that they could do during their term of office, but also on the issues they did not do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u903	Thank you, Mr President. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u904	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to add one of the things that have been heard just now by the Prime Minister's mouth. First of all, let us say this: the protected witness that testified to the United States was notified in June 2014. Don't pretend now we didn't know. We in the Committee of Inquiry know that in addition to Henry Dunan and the CCTP was the NOVARTIS. The whole world knew. On a good site, which has nothing to do with SYRIZA or anyone, this thing had been announced for two years. I hear argument that Papagelopoulos knew the case, Paulakis, etc. The whole of Greece knew! For God's sake! I mean the following. I have here in my papers - and the Prime Minister took the glory of me - all in the course of 2012-2013 of George Surla. For those who do not remember, the old Minister of Health was the first to denounce the Koskotas scandal and pay her dearly for his party - the old must remember, the new ones must not - a man who never compromised. In the events of 2012-2013, then, I would like to supplement what the Prime Minister said. He is the first to point out that the United States Ministry of Justice has identified five companies - not NOVARTIS here, generally for health, speaks - who paid a fine of USD 350 million each. Giorgos Sourlas said this somewhere in June 2013, that is, when these things happened. The OECD enters in the middle and says: 'What are the Greek authorities doing?' He tells them they don't do anything. In his honor, Surlas sends - that's what I want to complete, the exact date, why didn't it sound - on October 12, 2012, to Gregory Peppon - remember the impotent prosecutor of corruption? - everything he had, and he didn't have from what was happening, from the terrible party that was going on in the field of health. Gregory Peponnes immediately activates everything. Result? Peponi is being upgraded and marginalized and is serving somewhere in a decommissioned office, because the corruption prosecutors are disturbing and the case is being filed. Do you want to hear it a dozen times? Archived! I don't say it, George Surlas says it. This is the example the Prime Minister referred to a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u905	Put all 350 million of the fines for the bribery of state officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u906	It's the way you say it, Mr. Comrade. And I will recall again and I shall read the conclusion of these events: 'In the most moderate calculations, these losses amount to more than 12 billion a year'. To add, how many years has this story been? Paulakis will be vindicated for saying it's some 80-85 billion, because it's about seven years old. That's not what SYRIZA says, no one says and no one can deny that this scandal was there. I have in front of me a report published in the "Nation of Sunday" for a protected witness in America. It's eight pages. But before I go there, I would like to remind you: First of all, the whole world knows that the status of protected witnesses is a story that has been established - for those who do not know it - since 1871. It was a law in the United States. Kou - Klux - Klan went and killed unnecessarily with the colored hoods. At that time, the protected witness was first applied to the judiciary and so many Ku - Klux - Klan murderers were killed at that time. And even, for those who don't remember, the United States was a slut for all the countries of the planet. From '71 to 2013 such witnesses were eighteen thousand four hundred and led to convicts of defendants, to 89% of cases. And still in Italy and other parts of the world, Koza Nostra, Kamora and Dragetta were hit with this institution. I'm telling you this because it's easy to report, sue, etc. I'll say something. I understand and these colleagues are really in a difficult position. And I honestly say that I wish them the best possible use of the presumption of innocence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, go to your irritation, denounce the witnesses, and tell the Prime Minister that you've got him, who doesn't fit anywhere. Now you can sue Mrs. Tulupaki? What's that thing? Where does it fit? You have to have at least one clue that there's really a co-operation, etc. There's no evidence. I hear screams, voices, angers. Zero clue. I won't have any more time. I'm finishing and I want to say this:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u907	And you will do well, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u908	Isn't the last one, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u909	No, Mr. Papachristopoulos. You're not the last one. Didn't you say you were done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u910	There was too much tone and things should not be heard in this Chamber. They've heard incredible expressions that don't get as upset as you are. I really believe that, after the upgrade of MODY'S, which followed two upgrades, both STADARD & POOR'S and FITCH's, the good course will continue - because some people have recovered from seeing that we did not get the dose - and I think that we should all see it positive from now on and look into this scandal. It has to be searched, and I think we all want it, and we'll all vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u911	Good. Mr. Lykoudis has the floor. After you, another Member will speak and finally the Minister, Mr. Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u912	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make clear words, there is no doubt that we are in front of a scandal by the NOVARTIS pharmaceutical company with international origin and dimensions. The company's practice, but also other pharmaceutical companies, is well known. They're not finding out now. For example, from 2000 until recently, NOVARTIS has paid the US public $1 billion in compensation and fines. In April 2017, the South Korean Government fined NOVARTIS $50 million, while last December the Australian Government sued GLAXO and NOVARTIS for illegal practices and not just there and there. We therefore have to do with a huge, multi-complex circuit of interacting, corruption and illegal and immoral practices to promote pharmaceutical products, over-estimated supplies, over-subscriptions and over-subscribing, related to critical aspects of the health system. Therefore, judicial investigations should prove the violation of the laws and the damage to the public, claim the correction and impose strict penalties. The main problem is to see whether we can take and what measures are taken to prevent such phenomena from being repeated and to improve the health system, that is to say, so that Greek citizens know where and how they spend their money. But in our case there is another important parameter. It relates to the great increase in public pharmacological expenditure between 2001 and 2009, with a special increase in the period from 2004 to 2009 of 159% and an absolute size of EUR 2 billion to 5.5 billion and as a percentage of GDP from 1.3% to 2.2%, while health expenditure increased by 69%. In IKA the increase was 400% and in OGA 450%. These are glossy amounts and percentages. Here there is a problem of money laundering and mismanagement which has not been sufficiently analysed. It is only enough to say that a simple measure, the electronic prescribing that started as infrastructure preparation at the beginning of 2010 and shortly thereafter became part of the Memorandum of Understanding, reduced the pharmaceutical expenditure by EUR 1.5 billion. Of course very few are prepared to admit that the financial derailment that led the country to bankruptcy was done with everyone's blessings and due to the insurance system in two thirds. It is due to complex and inexplicably present customer and joint networks at the expense of the national economy and the social system, unreasonable governmentism with over-recruitment and uncontrolled pay. In the same period, pension expenditure increased by 100% and general government pay by 95%. Pharmaceutical expenditure also had its own share, but it was nothing but the tip of the iceberg. All of this, of course, was covered by continuous and unreasonable external borrowing and by total ignorance of the risks. There are clear and heavy political responsibilities. You will tell me that we hear this often and that in the democratic parliamentary systems political responsibilities are judged in the polls and are well or badly regarded as being judged. It's SYRIZA's main argument. I respect her. He's won two elections. So one can think that his political responsibility has been judged. It is another thing if I and many others believe that the colorful and heterogeneous anti-monstrous fraud policy convinced much of the public that our bankruptcy was nothing but a product of an international conspiracy, with its domestic traitors and that the memorials brought the crisis, austerity and not the other way round. The transfer of responsibilities has made it easier and it still suits many, ladies and gentlemen. But now, here in front of us, we have a forensics. She's a rough, incoherent and procedural perforator. He's targeting and incriminating political persons on the basis of narratives, speculation and cases of anonymous witnesses, without elementary evidence, without any illusory evidence, without any tangible evidence that creates even a legitimate suspicion, but concrete. Nothing at all! A bar around the corner, so it's raining. These manipulations feed reasonablely - I will avoid the words "constructions" etc., as I personally do not fit in much - claim that this is a guiding scene that aims not to discover wrongdoing and criminal offences, but to build selective political entities under continuous hostage and under the shadow of the suspect, to finally stay the stigma and the rets, regardless of guilt or not. Victims are being selected for the Colosseum. Fraud and misleading are still going on, because a governance that, according to Mr Visser, brought two unjustified memoirs and damaged the country by EUR 200 billion - a total of GDP - without any apologies, without any misgivings. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you yourself called "sold" and "suppliers" the previous ones who had signed the first two Memorandums, today you are the most persuasive ones of the next two Memorandums. If you tell me we can't do otherwise, I can take it. But the others, why were they 'prosecutors' and'sold', who have also been in great and terrible dead ends for the same reasons? This is an incredible shame, because you are still invoking a birthplace and a left-wing moral advantage, when authoritarianism, the complexity and the corruption of political language are a cloud that swallows political life today. Away from every barrier you resort to the last refuge of populism when it's in dead ends, the unblemished and obscure morals "From here the good, the bad people", "from here the ignorant and the honest, from there the corrupt elites", the old and the so-called new ones, these and against all others. This is a new mythological background to understand how a work is constantly being set up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But that's not all. This is where everything is zeroed, as if the political history of the country begins with SYRIZA - ANEL. They are all disfellowshipped and displayed themselves with the halo of the indestructible and folk punishment. We are splitting, polarising, considering that we have nothing to lose, but hopefully we will gain points at the expense of political normality and institutions. The maximum honor that others did themselves is not an example of panic and weakness. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that I from the Step that I have repeatedly addressed, as I do, agonizing warnings about the government practices that have collapsed, in my opinion, on the left. Her most valuable political chapter I feel is brutally cared for at every opportunity and I am deeply sorry. I would again like to warn, as far as I can, and with all my personal modesty, about the slippery and dangerous path that we have taken before today. No one can remain, ladies and gentlemen, forever in power, whatever means it uses, either the rule of law or the law or the institutions, whatever goes on. It's extremely sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u913	All right, Mr. Lykoudi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u914	I shall conclude, Mr President. Political life today is being redirected into a vicious divisional cycle. Criminalisation of political life is a crime and a dynamism on the foundations of political normality and the necessary understanding and unity in the face of the serious challenges facing the country. It is only the government today that knows. You heard the people involved this morning how they spoke to you. You can only know that there is in politics, as in the Matthew Gospel, "they're stabbed, the sword you'll receive." But where will the country go, ladies and gentlemen? Two former prime ministers and eight ministers are quoted and the current Prime Minister is sued by the former Prime Minister as gang leader. Where is the country, ladies and gentlemen? What artifact have you opened? Have you gotten it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u915	Mr. Nicolopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u916	So what should we do? Why don't we vote for all this to be investigated? Should we listen to Mr. Mitsotakis saying "there is no evidence"? I don't think he knows, that he's so stupid, that it's now beginning the process. I can't believe it. He knows there's not been an investigation, of course, but he's doing that he doesn't know anything. He does not tell Georgiotis or Metarakis that a year in the Committee of Inquiry we are talking about "NOVARTIS" and evidence is coming. He can't tell. He couldn't hear that we went, like Janakopoulos, but they were all there, the prosecutors...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u917	At your command!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u918	At the request of the committee, it was written by the newspapers - I mean. And Mrs Tulupaki told us. A gangbanger and Ms. Tulupaki? Is there any of the Chania here? To listen to the Haniots. Toulouse's daughter call her "a gangbanger" and "ordinancesa"? Bravo! Well done, Mitsotakis and good Samaras! So a gang, and Sourlas, who said what Papagelopoulos, the other gang, said, "yes, it is the biggest scandal." If it's 12 billion a year, how much is the biggest scandal? So, gangbangers too. Yes, sir! So I hear some careful, supposedly progressive, who say we should not, my child, divide the world. Really? Did you talk out with the world? I know very well that the neo-democrats would not today want to see the sight they will soon see, not to vote and serve a new post, not what they knew so far, our "vote to put the thieves in prison and take back the stolen ones", but to "vote us for what was heard here today by Samaras, Venizelos and Mitsotakis. Vote on us so no thieves go to prison." Of course, I have also seen in the Committees of Inquiry which I am the one who voted on. The 'NOVARTIS', that is, has been voted on in the Committee of Inquiry into Health, which the world sees us every week from the channel. But there, while they voted to find the evidence, what everyone says is missing, whoever sees the MPs, and with closed eyes, understands who do not want to find the evidence. The witness is coming and they're defending him. The same happened when the pimps came. He understands and says "Black" the neo-democrat: "What do I do with these crooks? Why should I apologise for them? Do I have any reason?' Those of you who haven't seen any of you inquiring, please see, to understand what I'm saying. So it doesn't matter what they vote on. No matter what they vote, since they do not let them ask questions, to bring information, since they have commands: "Don't, cover them, and even confuse them so that people don't understand" as they are today. Today, what finally happened? Is there a scandal or isn't there? Is Sarakis a real person? Is he a candidate for the New Democracy? And he's a gangbanger? Don't you know who Sarakis went to America? You don't know that there might be someone in the witnesses who were Minister. You don't know! You only know Salma! Didn't he come to the committee, Mr. Georganta, Salmas? Wasn't Salmas telling us about "NOVARTIS"? Didn't you say that to Mitsotakis? Salmas told us about it, and that's why I'm thinking maybe I should do it for Salma, too, whatever Kammenos said. Although I'm afraid that if we all do, Mitsotakis will erase him, because he won't sleep. Why does he say to you: 'If Salmas says so, what now?' But come that some should be concerned when they read in the newspapers, when they tell us that there are ten thousand e-mails, that there are documents, that there are videos, that there are taped conversations. So, how humiliated do people have to be to leave the spectacular scars? How much? Is it possible in the court of the "Panathenamics" to have such a conversation? Is that possible? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Is Mr. Voutsi here? Mr President, Samaras said today - please do him the favor - that he resigns from his immunity. Let's bring in, please, the file, see Athanasios, see why he became a Member of the State, Athanasios, see how many cases he's involved in. Is Voridis here? In "Energa" he sent, he says, e-mailed Psykris - he's in the case-file - and he said: "Those Deputy Minister of Development, Asimakis Papageorgiou, the day after tomorrow that Samaras will come from Brussels, I will tell him and he will settle the matter." That's in the file. They're doing what they don't know right now. Which one of you doesn't know? One to say: 'I don't know what has happened'. Where's Nikita Kaklamanis talking about the piranhas? Who doesn't remember the piranha title? Who were the piranhas? It's not Kaklamanis New Democracy, it's not Nicolopoulos New Democracy, it's Mitsotakis New Democracy! So what can I say? Ladies and gentlemen, look: If we do not vote here as Mitsotakis wants, then one thing we have to achieve, really to relieve everyone. But let's go get that Ace out of here, too. Because even though they had heard that voice called, today Chohatzopoulos would not be in jail, neither Sbokos nor all the others. Finally, don't be misinterpreted. Do you know how many of them have returned money from the pimps? Do you know how much the accounts have been committed through the work of the committees of inquiry, which the so-called "What do they do to the committees of inquiry?" We were told here today by the great, the so-called: 'Oh, you're doing this like this to create impressions'. Ask the psalmist. Ask Bobola. Ask Alafuzo. But you see, the President here doesn't even answer us. We're sending him letters for Daskalonakis yesterday. For every question we ask, Mr President. We also have lawsuits and we have no legal support. And then the stolen ones come to the end. Don't you, ladies, want the stolen ones back? The parish priest took the money? Who took the money? Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that this is not the case. Some people here think - and not only from New Democracy, but also from other parts - that people are watching them. They're making a tragic mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u919	Finish, Mr. Nicolopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u920	I see one of my fellow citizens down there smiling. He thinks he's getting a medal, but when his so-called elites are mocking him, when the "pimps" are mocking him, when he's invited to have a drop down in the Faliro, permanent or others from here, you know that they've secured the antidote and the consideration. We shall not exchange our vote for a lentil. I am sure that not all of them are involved with the same responsibilities, but that today we have to do our duty and send a message, that we are not tolerated. What did Samaras say? I can't stand it, he says, fly to my sword. If you can't stand it, Mr. Antonis, come here to vote. So come here and tell us and answer all the questions that will be asked. One lost the Presidency of the Republic, not because he appointed his mother-in-law and did not go to work in the CEDEFOP, but because, while he had sewed the suit, at the last hour they learned what we do not know he is involved in the NOVARTIS scandal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u921	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u922	Why listen, Mr. Koutsouko, you may be from the Tower and I from Patras, but down there for the vaccines, everyone wonders what the vaccines have been done and you were not given the opportunity for the burner to answer what the vaccines have been done. So let us give them the opportunity to know what happened to the vaccines.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u923	You voted for the vaccines!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u924	Thank you very much. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u925	Ladies and gentlemen, the role of the last speaker is probably inconceivable. We have a very intense meeting, expected in my view. I shall therefore try to close this sitting to give some clarification and some answers. I think we all understand the difficulty of the procedure. We understand the need to have a convincing response from the part of those who are alleged to be involved in this case. We understand the need for a political diversion of fires against the government. All this is understandable. But what you probably do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, is that the theory of manufacture in such a scandal, with these dimensions, the international dimensions, is very annoying. Indeed, when it is reinforced with extreme right and civil war traits it becomes very dangerous. So we have a scandal undeniable. It's a common place now, I understand, by everyone. No one can question that neoliberal capitalism, in which you confess to it, seems that it does not work so well, seems that it does not favour free market competition, etc., but favours and allows aggressive practices, allows unfair competition, allows intervention through the course of political money in critical decision-making centres and in critical pharmaceutical promotion rings. But I think the surrounding atmosphere in the country also recognizes this. When recognition comes, then, and the need, as the Prime Minister rightly pointed out, for political responsibility to be finally assumed. I did not hear here, in so many hours we were, all day, saying 'yes, we have a responsibility for this party in the past 15 years, we have a responsibility because, under our noses, a system that influenced prices was organised, favoured overpricing and mainly favoured provoking demand and transaction.' Because if that is not the case, I think it is absolutely hypocritical to recognise the party and recognise the scandal. And that, in my view, shows that there was in fact no political will on your part to open up a serious front against waste, interest-sharing and corruption in the health field. And if there were no such government, if there was no specific Minister for Justice who had the political reflexes when the surrounding atmosphere began, when we started to learn that the FBI was doing an investigation, that witnesses from Greece are being called upon to order a public prosecutor, if we did not have the political reflexes as government a year ago, to open up the process of party investigation in the field of health as a whole, if we did not have the specific political leadership of the Ministry, if we did not have honest people in the administrations of the EOF, the positive list committee, the EOGY, the other services involved, this story would have been buried and we would not have arrived here. That is the essence, in my view, of the entire debate today. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So, let hypocrisy with "all in light", because what comes out of your positions, not only of those who are involved but of the others, is that everything was well-built, that you are the criminal persecutors of corruption in health, you are a persecutor of the speculation of its multinationals, you have proposed your breasts toward the speculation of venture capital in the health sector, and the only one who reacted to this thing was SYRIZA. That's what you've been telling us all day. And you tell us, of course, that you have reduced the pharmaceutical expenditure during the crisis, you who have the political responsibility, which your governments, your price committees, your ministries, your officials, your ministers, your ministers at the Ministry of Development and Trade in the 2000-2010 were deciding on prices opaque. There was no framework, there was no revaluation procedure, there were drugs that remained stable in their price for two to five years, and you were caught in the pain for a few months that delayed a price report, the year that was all in the air in the country and that was dissolving the universe! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because of this party, the troika is, of course, coming and targeting the area of health and, in particular, the medicine, and it has forced us from the start of the crisis to have a very tough and inappropriate policy focusing on the horizontal cut in expenditure rather than on structural measures. Don't tell us that e-prescription has affected expenditure reduction. No relationship, and you know it very well. Colleagues know that. The policy, which made expenditure cuts, therefore, was the closed budget and clawback and rebate, the trend towards devaluation in price notes which were coming out and, of course, the transfer of a large part of this cut to the patient, to the citizen as out of pocket payment for buying drugs. Because, if you look cumulatively,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u926	Six percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u927	Allow me, Mr. Kegeroglu. If you look at the expenditure in 2012 and then, in public and private terms, the separatist remains, about, on the same level, 5.5 billion. What does that mean? It means that the large reduction in public expenditure has been passed on to the private sector on the one hand and, of course, as a burden on companies with clawback and rebate. The most important thing, however, is this. This horizontal cut in expenditure was an element of a political project of total disorganisation of the Public Health System. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It is done at a time when hospitals are being closed, people are being made available, two and a half thousand specialists are being expelled from the Primary Care Structures, organic beds are being cut off, clinically and parts of it are merged hospitals, the universe is being dissolved. That is why we did not vote for these measures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because it was part of a plan to dismantle public care and passive health privatisation. That's the point. That's why we didn't vote for them. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] You'll hear them. Please very much. I've been listening very patiently for too many hours since the morning. And because Mr Mitsotakis asked "what are you doing?", "What measures are you taking?", I will tell you what the main parameters were, what the institutional deficits were, and what exactly are we promoting as a counterweight and an attempt to shield the system. The first institutional deficit was that we had a non-transparent pricing system. It was impenetrable. In the years 2000-2010, we are not talking about it. In the first memorial period, although responsibility goes to the Ministry of Health, IF does not take out the price lists. The ministers and their advisers are taking them off. Since 2013, EOF is starting to pull out price notes. A special pricing service is set up from the 'EURIPID' - as has been said - the prices, the crossmatch and the price package. So we in these five price sheets that we have made in the three years that we are in the government have imposed a transparent procedure, with public posting of the price card, with open consultation with pharmaceuticals, and no company or anyone involved has said there was a shadow in the process of formulating the price card. More importantly, we are coming and doing an institutional intervention and we are abolishing the price committee that was in place at the Ministry, which gave the ministers the opportunity to intervene through their advisers and to 'cook' the final version of the card. This has been the case for many years. We abolished that. Now in the multi-brand plan the abolition of the price committee that has given this possibility has passed. And we trust that the EEO with its scientific potential and with the credibility and honesty of its administration and, in particular, its president at this time, ensures that there is transparency and clear words and clear discussions. And also, at this time every three months, we're getting a new drug price sheet and new drugs are coming to the country. We do not believe that new medicines should not be placed in the country and that this is a critical element for ministers or an incriminating element for governments. We believe that the patients of our country, like every European citizen, are entitled to access modern innovation, but with evaluation and, above all, with price negotiation, which was never in the country and we are now applying it. So now, ladies and gentlemen, we have also recently established the HTA Committee on Multi-Bank Plan. There was no such mechanism for evaluating pharmaceutical innovation in Greece. We applied him. And that means that for every innovative medicine that comes there will be scientific documentation for its therapeutic value and not just a cost debate. It will therefore be evaluated if it has added therapeutic value and, above all, most importantly, it will not be approved if it has not been negotiated and price-added. That's a huge change. It's part of pharmaceutical policy in the country, and that government is doing it. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It was criminal - Paul said before - that especially in the past two decades, especially during the great rise, the peak of the pharmaceutical expenditure that was challenging, no one, governments, ministers, insurance funds, Parliament, did not deal with, did not ask himself. And the question of course is: Was this lack of political responsibility, lack of political reflexes, lack of political insight innocent? Or did there really be political money behind this story? Or was there really an intervention from NOVARTIS and others - why, obviously, NOVARTIS is not an exception - companies? And these companies that invested huge sums in the promotion of their products through transactions with scientific companies, with doctors, journalists, with conference organizing companies, who tells us that they did not invest correspondingly in affecting the critical link between the landscape and the architecture in the field of pharmaceutical policy? So for the first time, on the left government, we have a successful negotiation on two major therapeutic classes, hepatitis C medicines and recently melanoma. This is a big change in the country's pharmaceutical policy. We also have political initiatives from this government, which is taking the lead with other countries in the Valletta alliance, an alliance of nine countries at the moment, predominant to the countries of the European South, which is the first experiment of transnational cooperation on a very strong front for fair and sustainable prices towards multinationals. This is also a great change of policy, which has never even been considered by other governments. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I'll talk to you about blackmail. We had a few months ago an raw blackmail from a large multinational company with 30% of the shares of "NOVARTIS", the Swiss company "ROCHE", which came one day - we were with Paul - and he tells us "with the measures you are taking, our presence in Greece is not sustainable, our trading department has given a mandate to slowly withdraw our medications. And as the first move we withdraw an anticancer new medicine, Cotellic, which was for malignant metastatic melanoma. And we say to "ROCHE" that whether our country's patients will have access to modern-day effective treatments is not a business plan of a company, it is a political issue. The Prime Minister was informed, informed by the Minister of Finance, the Ministers for Health throughout the European Union, the Commissioner for Health of the European Union was informed, the World Health Organisation was informed, and the Minister for Health went to the Council of Ministers and raised it on the agenda. We prevented this blackmail and the medicine is being released and the people in need take it. This is another line to the extortion of the multinationals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u928	Mr President, what will happen? Another day to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u929	Please for your patience, I'll be done. There are two other key points. One is prescribing. Electronic prescribing, for which the opposition is taking place, does not itself place obstacles to provocative demand. We now have fifteen locked therapy protocols, we are preparing another twenty in the next space, and this is the only reforming way, the only structural change that can ensure that there is a specific line in the prescription, there will be step therapy, there will be filters and it will not be possible for every doctor to prescribe in any way or influenced by transactions related to medical conventions. This is also a major reformist change. And the last and critical field is the field of medical conventions. We've also opened a very serious conversation right now at the ERCY. Firstly, we have imposed the disclosure of all financial data relating to the transaction of pharmaceutical companies either with the scientific companies of doctors or with doctors on the EOF site and compulsory on the site of each pharmaceutical company. This is a mechanism of transparency and restraint necessarily. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We also have a ready draft law, where the responsibility for the approval of conferences leaves the EEO, which was a completely formal process, and goes to the Central Health Council, where, in cooperation with the forty-five body companies, the quality of the conferences will be evaluated and we will not allow the thousands of three hundred scientific companies, many of which were merely umbrellas for the organisation of conferences.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u930	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u931	I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. I have listened to you, ladies and gentlemen, because you have allegedly reduced the cost of medicine, forgetting that you left a zone of health and pharmaceutical poverty in society, forgetting that three million uninsured citizens who had no right to prescribe their medicines, and that is why the social doctors and the pharmacies were blossoming. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I didn't hear you say a word about them. We therefore do not welcome the fact that the expenditure has been reduced, because it has also been reduced nowadays, because a closed budget has been imposed on us. That is not what we welcome. What we are proud of is that with L.4368 we have fully covered two and a half million insecure citizens, and today EUR 165 million is spent on their extra-natal, pharmaceutical care.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u932	All right, and that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u933	Each month EUR 12 to 15 million is spent on the treatment coverage of uninsured persons. This is a huge intervention to strengthen social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u934	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal, tabled by the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras and 144 Members of the Group, as well as the President of the ANEL Parliamentary Group, Mr Panagiotis, Kammenos and 8 Members of the Parliamentary Group on the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution, 153 et seq. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable, for the possible termination of the crimes of bribery and bribery and money laundering, according to the proposal from: 1) Antonio Samaras, 2) Panagiotis Pikrammenos, 3) Dimitrios Avramopoulos, 4) Andreas Loverdos, 5) Andreas Lukourenzo, 6) Mario Salma, 7) Spyridonas - Adonni Georgiadis, 8) Ioannis Stournaras, 9) Evangelos Venizelos, 10) George Koutromanis. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. I understand that there is a lack of concentration after so many hours of meeting, but what can we do? In accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 155(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the creation or non-Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. The following secret ballot shall be held in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 8 and 9 of Rule 155 and Rule 73 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that the MP and former Prime Minister, Mr Antonis Samaras, as well as the MPs and former ministers, Evangelos Venizelos, Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, Andreas Loverdes and Marios Salmas, will not participate in the vote on the proposal to prosecute them, as provided for in paragraph 8 of Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. The vote will take place at one reading of the list, be self-evident for each person and will take place in ten separate votes. There will be no name on the vote. Only one number will be entered. The voters shall be placed on the basis of the alphabetical order of the name of the persons against whom the proposal is directed. In particular: Voter number 1 concerns Mr Avramopoulos Dimitrios. Voter number 2 concerns Mr Venizelos Evangelos. Voter number 3 concerns Mr Georgiadis Spyridonas-Adoni. Voter number 4 concerns Mr Kutrumanis Georgios. Voter number 5 concerns Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Election number 6 concerns Mr. Lykourenzo Andreas. Vote 7 concerns Mr Picrammenos Panagiotis. The vote is taken at number 8 on Mr Salma Mario. Election number 9 concerns Mr Samaras Antonio. Voter number 10 concerns Mr Stournara Ioannis. For the purpose of holding your secret ballot you have been distributed ten lists by the name of Mr. Avramopoulos Dimitrios, Venizelos Evangelos, Georgiadis Spyridonos - Adonidos, Koutromani Georgiou, Loverdus Andreas, Lykourenzos Andreas, Pikrammenos Panagiotis, Salma Marios, Samaras Antoniou and Stournara Ioannis. You have also been distributed isonumerically white lists, as well as isonumerical white envelopes. The proposal put forward, as well as the lists, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u935	Each ballot below the heading ‘PRODUCT’ shall indicate the number of the voter relating to each of the above persons. You have also been distributed a table corresponding to the name of each person and the number of voter concerned. The vote shall be crossed under the three words 'NAH', 'OH', 'PAH'. If the ballot does not bring a cross, then I propose that it be considered invalid. Also, when counting the ballots that will be found in the wrong ballot, I propose that they be considered void. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u936	The House therefore agreed. In accordance with paragraph 10 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, in the event of disagreement between the number of votes cast and the number of votes cast, the count shall be repeated. Although after this new count, the number of ballots is higher than the number of votes cast, they are destroyed before the sorting of the number of ballots equal to the number of additional ballots. In making the name of each Member, he will come to the vote, where he will place his file with his vote in the respective ballot and the Members will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Speaking on the list of MPs and voters and Chairmans of the Committees will take place at the end of the statement of the names of the other Members for the sake of the proper functioning of the procedure. I would also like to inform you that the Bureau has sent in sealed letters, by fellow Members on a mission of Parliament or the Government abroad, to participate in the secret ballot, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Their ballots are in the sealed envelopes. Each folder is enclosed in a larger folder, also closed, indicating the number of the boxes intended. The second file is enclosed in a larger third file, also closed, which lists the name of the Member or the member of the Government who votes by letter. The dossier shall be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament and a copy thereof shall be lodged in the minutes of today's sitting. On the list, the Secretary, Mrs Gara Anastasia, from the Radical Left coalition and the MP, Mr Vesropoulos Apostolos, from the New Democracy, is called on the list. They are also called as voters: For the first poll, on the recommendation or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Minister and Commissioner Avramopoulos Dimitrios, the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Scouffa Elisabeth and the Member of the New Republic of Kavada Athanasios. On the second call concerning the establishment or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Minister and Member, Evangelos Venizelos, the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Dritsel Panayota and the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Giannakis Stergios. On the third call concerning the establishment or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Minister and MP Mr Georgiadis Spyridonas - Adononi, MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Giannakis Efstathos and MP of the New Republic Mr Boukoros Christos. On the fourth call concerning the establishment or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Minister Kutruman Georgios, the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Risoulis Andreas and the Member of the New Democracy Mr Antoniadis Ioannis. On the fifth call concerning the establishment or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Minister and MP Mr. Loverdos Andreas, MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Arachovitis Stavros and MP of the New Democracy Mr. Vlasis Konstantinos. On the sixth call concerning the establishment or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Minister Lukourenzo Andreas, the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Stoyannidis Gregorios and the Member of the New Democracy Mr Yoyakakas Vassilis. On the seventh call concerning the establishment or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Prime Minister Pikramenos Panagiotis, the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Pavlides Konstantinos and the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Katsaniotis Andreas. On the eighth call concerning the establishment or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Minister and MP Mr Salma Mario, the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Karasstasis Apostolos and the Member of the New Democracy Mr Folila Jasonas. On the ninth poll, on the recommendation of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Prime Minister and MP Samaras Antonis, the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Giolas Ioannis and the Member of the New Democracy Mr Consola Emmanuel. On the tenth call concerning the establishment or not of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Minister and Governor of the Bank of Greece, Stournara Ioannis, the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vardakis Socrates and the MP of the New Democracy Mr Stylos Georgios. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the voters to take their seats. In accordance with paragraph 6 of Rule 73 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure: For the first poll, Mr. Lambroulis George, F Vice President of the House. For the second poll, Mr. Lykoudi Spiridon, Z Vice-President of the House. For the third poll, Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios, First Vice President of the Parliament. For the fourth poll, Mr. Lambroulis George, F Vice President of Parliament. For the fifth poll, Mr. Lykoudis Spiridon, Z Vice President of the House. For the sixth poll, Mr. Kammen Dimitrios, Vice-President of the Parliament. For the seventh call, Mr. Georgiadis Marios, I will be Vice President of the Parliament. For the eighth poll, Mr Athanasios Athanasios (Nasos), a Quaestor of the House. For the ninth poll, Mr. Koukoudimos Konstantinos, Dean of the House. For the tenth call, Mr. Panzas Georgios, Quaestor of the House. I would ask my fellow Members to remain in the Chamber and at the end of the secret ballot, because if the proposal is accepted there will be another vote on the duration of the committee and the number of its members. I would ask the voters to come to the poll. I repeat that the Members on the vote will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Please precede the list: The Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of the Thessaloniki Parliament Mr.Kourakis Anastasios, MP Mr.Bolaris Markos, MP Mr. II of Athens Mr. Papadopoulos Christoforos and MP 2 of Athens Mr. Katsotis Christos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u937	Mr. President, may I? I want it to be recorded in the Minutes that my position is 'yes' in the setting up of a pre-request committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u938	Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u939	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The sealed letters sent to the Bureau for participation in the secret ballot for the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination, in accordance with Articles 86 of the Constitution and 153e. the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and of the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Ministers, as applicable, for the possible termination of the offences of bribery and bribery and money laundering, according to the proposal from: 1) Antonio Samaras, 2) Panagiotis Pikrammenos, 3) Dimitrios Avramopoulos, 4) Andreas Loverdos, 5) Andreas Lukourenzo, 6) Mario Salma, 7) Spyridonas - Adonni Georgiadis, 8) Ioannis Stournaras, 9) Evangelos Venizelos, 10) George Koutromanis, will be registered in the Practicals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u940	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to take the counting and sorting of the ballots and exporting the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u941	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the secret vote in this House: For the former Minister, Mr Avramopoulos Dimitrios: A total of 218 Members voted. They were found in the 218 ballot box. I validated 192 ballots. Annulled 26 ballots. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 188. They voted against the proposal: 0. ‘PARTS’ voted: 4. For the former Minister, Mr Venizelo Evangelos: A total of 217 Members voted. 217 votes were found in the polls. I won 191 ballots. Annulled 26 ballots. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 185. They voted against the proposal: 0. ‘PARTS’ voted: 6. For the former Minister, Mr Georgiadis Spyridonas - Adoni: A total of 218 Members voted. They were found in the 218 ballot box. I validated 192 ballots. Annulled 26 ballots. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 186. They voted against the proposal: 0. ‘PARTS’ voted: 6. For the former Minister, Mr Kutrumani Georgios: A total of 217 Members voted. 217 votes were found in the polls. I validated 192 ballots. Annulled 25 ballots. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 180. They voted against the proposal: 1. 'PARTON' voted: 11. For the former Minister, Mr Loverdo Andreas: A total of 217 Members voted. 217 votes were found in the polls. I won 190 ballots. Cancel 27 lists. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 186. They voted against the proposal: 0. ‘PARTS’ voted: 4. For the former Minister, Mr Lykourenzo Andreas: A total of 218 Members voted. They were found in the 218 ballot box. I won 190 ballots. Annulled 28 ballots. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 180. They voted against the proposal: 2. They voted: 8. For the former Prime Minister, Mr Picrammenos Panagiotis: A total of 218 Members voted. They were found in the 218 ballot box. I got 180 ballots. Annulled 28 ballots. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 170. They voted against the proposal: 8. 'PARTON' voted: 12. For the former Minister, Mr Salma Mario: A total of 218 Members voted. They were found in the 218 ballot box. I validated 192 ballots. Annulled 26 ballots. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 159. They voted against the proposal: 17. 'PARTON' voted: 16. For the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras Antonio: A total of 218 Members voted. They were found in the 218 ballot box. I won 191 ballots. Cancel 27 lists. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 182. They voted against the proposal: 3. ‘PARTS’ voted: 6. For the former Minister, Mr Stournara Ioannis: A total of 218 Members voted. They were found in the 218 ballot box. I won 190 ballots. Annulled 28 ballots. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 182. They voted against the proposal: 2. ‘PARTS’ voted: 6. Following the outcome of the secret ballot, the number 776/12-2-2018 proposal for a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination submitted by the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras and 144 Members of the Group Parliamentary Group, and the President of the ANLL Parliamentary Group Mr Panagiotis Panagiotis (Panos) Kammenos and 8 Members of the Group Parliamentary Group, for having gathered the absolute majority of the entire number of Members provided for in paragraph 9 of Rule 155 of the House's Rules of Procedure for: 1) Antonis Samaras, 2) Panagiotis Pikrammenos, 3) Dimitrios Avramopoulos, 4) Andreas Loberdos, 5) Andreas Lykourenzos, 6) Mario Salmas, 7) Spridonas - Apramis - Georgios, 9) I propose that the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination should consist of twenty-one members and that the deadline for the completion of the work of the committee and for the presentation of its findings and of its evidence should be within one month of the committee being set up. Do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u943	Oh, no. Mr President, we are asking for the deadline to be at least three months, for a more substantial investigation of the matter by the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u944	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u945	Oh, no. The Communist Party of Greece does not agree with the proposal of one month. We believe that there must be an unlimited amount of time, so that it can be done as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u947	Oh, no. As far as all ten persons are concerned in particular, we ask that the deadline be three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u948	This proposal was therefore accepted by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u949	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the numbers 886 and 904 of 21-2-2018, Mr Efstathios Panagoulis and Mr Aristides Baltas have been received from the Bureau and I would ask them to be included in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u950	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 20-2-2018, a criminal case for Prime Minister Alexio Tsipras and Deputy Minister of Justice Dimitrios Papagelopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-02-21-S1-commons.u951	With the agreement of the House at 5.45 p.m. the sitting is closed for Thursday, February 22, 2018 at 10.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
