ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 10 May 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1.H by number 1603/7-5-2018 a topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the "upgrading of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Carditsa". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1609/7-5-2018 topical question by MP Larissa of the New Democracy Mr. Maximou Charakopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “A letter of protest and despair residents of the Exarchates”. 3. The 1586/2-5-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Payment of damages from the quarantine of November 2017’. 4. The Question No 1607/7-5-2018 by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "To compensate directly those affected by the catastrophic floods in the Prefecture of Itoloakarnania". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1604/7-5-2018 by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Re-establishment of an initial regulation n.3852/2010'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1608/7-5-2018 by Mr Fotinis Arabatzis, Member of Parliament, on the subject of "First crisis in Greek ovine and caprine animals". 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Nine tolerance of the residents of the Exarchites in the inadequacy of a dangerous situation in the region". 4. The question raised by Mr Christos Katsotis on 1619/8-5-2018 by Mr. Athens, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Three third-party borrowers' problems". 5. The 1620/8-5-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the needs of museums and archaeological sites. 6. The Question No 1621/8-5-2018 by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Healthy and safety for workers and traders in the buildings of the FKA". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, dated 1614/7-5-2018, on the subject: "Urgent need for promotion measures for the recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou". 8. The Question No 1600/5-5-2018 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The CYTA of Achaias drown the other people...”. 9. The 1573-27-2018 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Available quantities of potatoes in the Mountain and Upper Brodish Prefectures of Serres". 10. The 1554-24-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior about the building for the accommodation of the Department of National Roads of Paionia. 11. The Question No 1555/25/2018 by Independent Messinia MP Dimitrios Koukoutsi to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Low-cut loans from the Turkish bank Ziraat to tobacco producers in Thrace". 12. The 1551/24-2018 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Measures and actions to deal with water shortages - drought". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 1529/19-4-2018 topical question by MP Pella of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "They continue to remain unpaid". 14. Observed. The 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "About the para-state website, the unprecedented attack on the A.T. took place. Cesarean’. 15. The 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions about the agent's case based on P. Kammenos's revelations". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 4699-26-3-2018 by Mr Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleigh to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The animal husbandry in an emergency." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Rodopi of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Aid for tobacco growers in Thrace". 3. The question by No 2464/10-1-2018 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKI to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Let the funding for the diversion of the Platy River for the reinforcement of a Famous dam". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions and other provisions". Mr. Delis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The government claims that the bill puts order on the ascensions and adoptions. That this is even a progressive incision to the issue of child protection. Of course, when urban governments are talking about child protection, they simply mean certain measures of a limited nature, only for children who have arrived in the most extreme poverty, or for those who are for various reasons without a family. And here the situation is revealing. According to UNISEF, 27% of the children in our country live in poverty, and neither can they properly feed nor warm up in winter nor naturally go on holiday. What's all this? Natural phenomenon, or is it the result of the policy of all governments, which burdening the burdens of the barbaric system's crisis in popular strata? In addition, they have been growing in recent years and are shocking the incidents, which are made public, concerning the abuse of children by their parents, the trafficking of infants, the neglect and abandonment of infants and so much more. Maternal and hospitals are filled with such children, most of whom face serious health problems or disabilities and are abandoned there. Is it accidental that all of this appears even more to the single parent families from which it comes and most of these children? What does all this show? Do they not show that the management of the capitalist crisis by all governments at the expense of the people has further exacerbated them by the poverty and unemployment it has caused? Do they not show that reactionary changes in the economy, society, individualism, competition, selfish lifestyle, morality, and the values of barbarism and rottenness of the system we live are manifested in both personal and family relations? That's what they show. Here, then, is the territory where diseases such as domestic violence, sexual abuse of children and, more generally, drug addiction and mental illness are reproduced in families. So the phenomenon of unprotected children, growing up, does not fall out of heaven. It has economic, social causes, but your bill doesn't even touch. Let us not forget today's phenomenon of unaccompanied minor refugees, with quite a few of them living in police stations for a long time and many of them without one, but none, hope to be reunited with their families. Who is to blame if not the imperialist wars and the decisions of the European Union, which the Greek Government so willingly implement? It is obvious, I think, how increased the issue of child protection and how urgent its solution is. But who must have the responsibility of child protection? Who should this responsibility be borne by? Only the individual and his family, or the society, the state? Is it an individual or a social affair? That is an extremely critical question. The JRC responds: The state with its public structures and services, with an overall economic and social framework for all, but all, children assume this responsibility, because it considers it a matter for society as a whole. The government, all urban parties and, of course, the European Union, on the other hand, respond: this responsibility for child protection must not belong to the State, but must belong exclusively to the family, natural, positive or contractor or private professional. I think the difference between the two above concepts is chaotic. But here, on this narrow conception of individual and not state responsibility, the substance of the draft law is founded and therefore the whole system of private adoption remains and the action of non-governmental organisations and individuals on the issue of unprotected children is broadened, leaving, in addition, intact and all that framework in which the trade in children also stands. The reasoning for this has, of course, been found. It is well worked out by the European Union to be compatible with social experience and, of course, SYRIZA did not discover it. It's called dehydration, and it's fetish for all the bourgeois forces, and we've been listening to that for so many days. The same logic is forged as an inclusion in the field of special treatment. The results of its implementation are public units and structures of child protection inadequate and they operate on the limit, explosive shortages of staff, such as special schools - to go to this sector too - too little to meet existing needs or even with mice, such as the 2nd Special School in Pylea Thessaloniki. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a little tolerance, Mr President. And yet, someone comes out won by what's even served as a progressive one. The urban state is also gaining its funds, because they spend less on these counterproductives, as they are called, costs, and so can even more boost growth by subsidies and incentives to business groups. So those who, in government and others, raise the flag of dismantling their own heavy responsibilities are trying to hide for the anticipation of public structures, while at the same time promoting commercialisation in this sensitive sector. And what the government repeats, saying: “Where do you want to be an unprotected child? In a family or in a structured structure;' an institution is called it, there is an answer: there, but there, which is better for the child itself, since of course the scientific and social criteria are applied and the conditions that serve only the interests of the child and nothing else are implemented. To conclude, Mr President, the bill, despite some of the necessary modernisations it brings, does not escape the limits of a mere management of the problem, and neither cannot nor will it be able to address the causes, because it does not only provide for the state of those social services - such as family planning, sexual education and the total support of the family - which would significantly reduce the cases of children without a family, nor ensure scientific and social research and the necessary - we say - state support, which requires the right to takeover and adoption. However, normally, if the interests of these children were to be promoted, this should be the main and not just the way in which it will be increased, such as the demand for assumption and adoption, as the government is promoting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u3	I would ask Mr Stoyannidis, a SYRIZA MEP, who is next speaker and then all my fellow Members to keep the time, because the 14.00-hour limit is decisive for the vote and we will find ourselves in the difficult position not to speak enough. Please, Mr Stoyannides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which deals with the institutions of admission and childbirth and - I successfully believe - is trying to solve chronic problems, such as the delay of procedures, the lack of mapping of children hosted in closed care structures, as well as the preparedness of candidates and foster parents. The bill has the child-centered target "no child in an institution". The establishment of a corresponding and proportionate provision in Article 13 in the assumption plan would also be useful for childcare. In particular, the assumption provides that the supervision of the assumption is entrusted to specific bodies and the entity responsible for supervising the assumption organises instrument visits, on a regular and exceptional basis, in order to establish the living and rearing conditions of the persons placed. It shall cooperate constructively with parents in the performance of their duties, in urgent cases, and shall draw up reports which, in addition to other notifications, shall also be recorded in the institutionalised national registers. During the process of hearing the bodies, twenty-seven of whom fully agree with the bill. Only three objected. This shows how the relevant bodies accept the bill in question. Since the 1990s every adult has had the right to become a parent donor without having a marriage or sexual orientation. In 1992 the Government was the New Democracy, the political ancestors of the New Democracy Members who reacted to the resolution of Article 8, which gives the right to take up and not give birth to persons of the same sex who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. Many of those who react to the lawmaking of this provision claim that children who will grow up in an environment with homosexual foster parents will also become homosexuals. Those who develop this claim should also answer the simple question: Why are children who, while being raised in a family environment with heterogeneous parents, become homosexuals? Also, life has shown us that heterosexuality is not a presumption of innocence. The attitude of the New Democracy once again demonstrates that the current leadership of the New Democracy leads the Party of Officers to a very conservative line, far away from the liberal policy that respected individual rights. I will give you an example from what was said when they finally decided to give Greece the right to vote and to women: Marika Kotopoulou, a famous actress in the 1930s, said that 'the deaf want only those who are bad and those who avoid having children'! Now these words only make a laugh. So I say to those of you who are reacting to Article 8 on the assumption of homosexual couples who have entered into a cohabitation agreement that the arguments you are using today in a few years' time will only cause laughter. So rethink your position and change your mind. Many Members of the New Democracy have used the following phrase: "Finally imagine a child who has two fathers or two mothers, how other children will deal with it at school." In fact, can the New Democracy Members tell us how they treat children who have a parent who has a homosexual, with a law adopted by the New Democracy in 1992 and who happen to live with a man or woman respectively? In democracies with a progressive sign, as I believe the Hellenic Republic is, the Constitution explicitly defines the protection of human rights and individual rights. Today the leadership of the New Democracy has decided to join many, not to protect minority rights, for voting reasons. This is populism and it runs counter to what Mr Mitsotakis is dealing with. To those who argue that society is not ready, I would like to mention what I mentioned in the committee during the drafting of the bill: the MP most often has to be in front of society rather than following society, especially in human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mrs Vayonakis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u6	Adoption and assumption are complex and sensitive processes that require fine but also rapid handling, regardless of the country, culture or the legal framework within which they are conducted. Unfortunately, the reality of our country is particularly hard in terms of the approximately three thousand children up to eighteen years old who are currently in child protection and care facilities. This is because neither the procedures are appropriate nor the procedures are quick and thin, as they should be. Without wanting to ignore the work done in many of these institutions, as well as the provision of their staff, I must say - and I think we all agree - that the natural place of a child is the family. That is what the International Treaty on the Rights of the Child provides for, and that is what logic requires. And that's because we're talking about children, about children's souls waiting for a better tomorrow, waiting for torture and with proven negative consequences, because of the founding of them. And I wonder where there are colleagues here who support institutionalisation. This has consequences in their cognitive field, consequences for their mental and emotional health and normal social integration, causing problems and delays in their emotional and social development. How proud can our country and the Greek society feel about the existing framework in which the adoptions are being carried out today? Today, the number of wishing to become fosterers or fosterers is multiple among children who remain forgotten in institutions, and this is because the state does not adequately fulfil its obligation to ensure their family rehabilitation. It is sad and also unacceptable that there are children growing up in institutions and at the same time young couples struggling, as they are unable to see the continuity of their lives and their existence through contact with a child, while illegal trade or the introduction of infants from other countries flourish. Ladies and gentlemen, the main problems for the implementation of an adequate and effective legal and institutional framework are summarised below: delays in managing the applications of candidates and foster parents, delays in carrying out the necessary checks and drawing up of the relevant reports, misrepresentation of children hosted in the institutions. To these problems must be answered today by an integrated and scientifically adequate legislative intervention, which I believe this law we are discussing offers, because it requires a more rapid investigation of the family environment, encourages and premiums the procedures for taking up and adopting, clears the steps to be taken by parents, introduces the compulsory training of candidate parents, regulates the continuation of the assumption for children with disabilities after eighteen years and financially strengthens it, allows children's insurance cover to be taken by the parent insurance body, extends the pool of available social workers responsible for the preparation of suitability reports by candidates from just eighty today in hundreds of the Association of Social Functions of Greece, as well as those who serve the social structures of the municipalities. The procedures for these reports will, of course, be limited - we hope - in the three months' time, and there will be serious sanctions, both if the scientific criteria are not followed and if the time limits set are not respected. In addition, the creation of the three electronic registers - kept in the HICP - the National Register of Minors, the National Register of Candidates for Contractors and Parents and the National Register of Approved Minors Contractors is a key element of this legislation transparently. For the first time, in 2018, the state will know how many children are available, how many fostering and fostering parents exist, which, together with the above, is estimated to reduce the time to complete an assumption in eight to twelve months from the six years that are needed today, especially in Attica. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill seems to me to have all the resources to make an important step towards adoption and assumption. Unfortunately, under the responsibility of the Officer and the media who support it, despite its very beneficial provisions, the debate in the public sphere has been limited to Article 8, which allows for the assumption by couples - both homogeneous and heterogeneous - who have signed a cohabitation agreement. For my part, I would like to point out: Unlike the adoption, which requires a judicial decision, and the child adopted becomes a permanent member of the family of its foster parents, assumption is an interim situation, which in any case ends after the child's age and aims to provide the child with the necessary care, diligence, nutrition and education, in a safe and stable family environment, with love and affection. The main argument of the people who reject the bill is that society is not mature. Think of how many anachronisms we have tolerated, always with the same pretext: women's vote, emancipation, political marriage, cohabitation pact, burning dead, etc. Many times the institutional dimension, the law which imposes advanced and radical steps is an element that disciplines society itself. On the contrary, cowardice, the argument "do not shake the water" only unsolved problems and anachronisms offer. I think we can unanimously agree that the integration of the child into the family environment is in his own interests, without reservations and without "yes, but". What should concern us in these cases is the suitability of candidates and not anything else, and much more so that they go through strict control procedures and scientifically certified staff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Besides, who can claim that the hug and care that a heterosexual couple will offer to an unprotected child is more true and warm than the one who will offer him a homosexual?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u7	And we continue with the MP of SYRIZA Mr Psychogios, who also please keep the time of seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone! Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today before the Greek Parliament, we are pleased to vote once again on a bill defending rights, in particular the rights of the child. It is a bill that has the best interest of the child, a principle that makes all its provisions known. As long as people try, through micro-political purposes or ignorance, to turn the debate elsewhere, we are concerned that our attention must be where the International Convention on the Rights of the Child focuses on its central idea, which is the beginning and end of this bill. So let's start with this assumption: in a favoured state in 2018 there can be no thousands of children in institutions. Also, couples cannot want young people to become fosterers or fostering parents and with all these multi-fashioned processes either discourage and abandon effort or be forced to follow other roads. These phenomena do not honor anyone, and they should have been resolved for a long time and indeed by those who blame us for bringing these provisions. These phenomena mainly work at the expense of children growing up without the care and love that they should enjoy. This bill comes to improve and modernise the existing framework and is a product of the Ministry's consultation with institutions. It looks very carefully at social needs and contains multi-level scientific diagrams. On this point, because a lot has been heard in this Chamber and a colleague from New Democracy has heard that this bill does absolutely nothing for the child, but that we have done absolutely nothing for the child as a government so far, because the seasons that children fainted in school halls from hunger - and school meals, which have covered part of schools and which will cover more along the path, millions of euros received by the municipalities for nurseries that will upgrade or establish special treatment, which has been upgraded in schools, pediatric or pediatric clinics that have been reopened or founded, as in my prefecture, Corinthia. All this creates an overall framework. Let's not try to make the white one, not gloat, because people know that, they know it. I return to the bill, saying that it moves on two axes. On the one hand, it addresses the question of speeding up procedures and, on the other, the existing malicious practices and shortcomings in an institutional, transparent and scientific way. In particular, the waiting time is drastically reduced, up to six years. A total of eight to twelve months will now be required for the completion of the procedure. The problem of the incomplete staffing of social services is being addressed and a very wide range of specialist social workers are being created, which will be able to carry out the investigations and reports required by the procedure. Three different registers are drawn up for the first time to ensure transparency and complete institutional immunity. It is the Register of Minors, in which each child will have its electronic file from the first moment to end the tragedy of not knowing a child its roots, the Register of Candidates and Parents, which will now only be applied for electronically to a public body, and, thirdly, the Register of Approved Assignments and adoptions, which the state will now officially know how many children and how many available parents are. It is, I think, obvious that there is a well-defined organisation and efficiency in the system. In addition, the application procedure - because it is important, what follows the application - is clear in time and scientific terms. It includes a definition of a social worker, followed by the training of the candidate parent, the monitoring of the profile of the candidate and the follow-up of the assumption and adoption from there on. For the successful implementation of all of this, the National Assurance and Adoption Council is set up with an advisory and supervisory role. I cannot, of course, deal specifically with the provision of Article 8, which allows couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement to become foster parents. Firstly, we have to make it clear - and I say this as a legal person - that there can be no distinction between homosexual and heterogeneous couples, which would also run counter to the Constitution and European Law and the report of the Scientific Service of Parliament. Secondly, we must not confuse the adoption, which is wider and specifically regulated by the Civil Code. Thirdly, in political terms, it is a stable and stable position of SYRIZA, which has been supported in the logic of equality, non-discrimination and universality of rights. Ladies and gentlemen, in the objections you raise to society, I have to comment on the following: I think that the Greek society is more mature than we think or anyone wants to present it. I believe that we must certainly take a step forward - but in any case, and particularly in matters of human rights, we must not forget that the law is also of a pedagogical nature and must do sectors, because it protects the most vulnerable and sensitive groups, such as children. So I would tell you not to use the argument of society, which you remember only in these cases, to activate the darkest reflexes of some. In any case, there is another argument that says: Have you solved all the problems, have you brought memorials and now are you bringing these bills? Here there is a dividing line, which says that SYRIZA, the Left-Government Government, strengthens individual and social rights, which are voters in a mosaic that has man in its centre and strengthens social cohesion. This is also what the bodies in the Committee on Social Affairs have pointed out, which concluded that for the best interests of the child it is very important where and how a child will grow, enjoying love and care. And since all these days that we are discussing this bill come unawares of the phrase'sometime they will come' from the lyrics of Leuteris Papadopoulos and the song of Paul Sidiropoulou, with this I will close: 'Support the child, because, if he escapes the child, there is hope'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Stamatakis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a pleasant time for our legislative work, because we are discussing a bill which attempts to solve problems that are going on and which concern a sensitive part of the population of our country, which is the children. There can be no children in institutions, abandoned in hospitals, calls for the collection of primary needs for children in institutions and parents waiting for longing, even six years or more, to adopt a child. The bill brings a series of sections and interventions, both at state and at social level, aimed at 'no children in institutions, all children in a hug', as the Minister very rightly said. At the state level, the National Admission and Adoption Council, which has an advisory and advisory role, is established. Insert the National Register of Minors, which records all children living in child protective units. The National Register of Candidate Parents shall be introduced, which shall include those wishing to give birth or to become donor parents, provided that they fulfil the legal conditions and have followed compulsory educational programmes. With these two registers for the first time, the state will know how many children are available for childbirth and how many parents have applied. To date no service can accurately calculate how many children are in institutions, how long and how old, but no service can certify and record how many applications from candidate parents are pending. They are lost through demonic processes and division of responsibility and are mainly deprived of the right to grow in a healthy family environment. As of now, certified social workers of the Association of Social Workers of Greece, who became a legal person governed by public law with Law No.4354/2016, undertake social research and tight conditions for the preparation of the suitability report of the couple. The institution of the occupational assumption is established. Contracting parents take over the insurance cover of children as a takeover by their insurance institution. The financial support for fostering parents is established and the establishment of the short-lived assumption is established. This draft law minimizes the waiting time that, as we have already said, can even be six years, and it will no longer exceed 12 months. At the same time, the social services of the regions' social welfare centres are being dismantled and conditions are being created to stop children living in structures for child protection. Transparency is also being strengthened and the trade in infants is being combated. We have seen the significant support in this bill in the previous days by a large majority of representatives of operators. This bill, however, has given rise to another need. A need for information. The question of the possibility of taking on gay couples became the subject of discussion. Apart from the so-called'society is not ready', we have heard too many inaccuracies. So society is not ready, as it was not in the past for the change of family law, for the negligence of adultery, for civil marriage, for the legalisation of abortions, for the cohabitation pact, was not ready for people with disabilities, it was not ready to accept the dependents, it is not ready to accept the burning of the dead. It is not always social reality in front of legislation. In the 21st century we cannot apply laws outdated and outdated, with the false excuse that society is not ready. For example, this law is being upgraded and a premium is being paid, and the institution of assumption, which is not widespread in Greece. That is what I think we all agree. So there must be an information campaign and the culture of assumption must be cultivated in our country too. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the laws have an educational function, if this society has not been trained to understand that it is not just a mother, a dad and one, two or more children, but there are other families. There may be a family with a parent, there may be two parents of the same sex, there may be one, two and a lot more children and have a different colour, children may be biologically related to their parents, but they may not have. What is it that finally causes a family to be characterized as a family? Is it the gender and sexuality of its members or the relationships between its members? Here is a right for couples who have made a cohabitation agreement, whether they are heterogeneous or gay, to become foster parents. I think they could also become foster parents. The law does not provide for that. It provides for the right to takeover. Of course, we could not rule out too many new couples from this law, who have made a cohabitation agreement, from this right of admission, but neither could we exclude the same couples, since this would automatically mean our country's condemnation to the European Court of Justice. However, there are today children in Greece who are growing up with two parents of the same sex. These children must be protected and said as a state that we recognise their families. Those who were last Sunday at the celebration of the "Uranian Arc", this huge colorful embrace from families with different sexual orientation, we saw children running, laughing, playing with a glow of joy in their eyes. We didn't see any children in any trouble, we didn't see any trauma, we didn't see any marginalization behaviour. We saw the affection of hug in their warm eyes. Those families that offer love and affection should be like a state to support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in a second. It was, therefore, apparent from the acceptance of the bill by the institutions that it was necessary to take this intervention to facilitate the procedures and stop children from staying in the institutions for many years in order to put an end to this unacceptable and sad obstacle, which has the effect of many personal dramas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th Old Faliros High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue the debate with SYRIZA MEP Mr Pavlides. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I think this is a very important bill. It was also clear from the statements and the majority of the opposition in relation to the changes that now become final in the matter of establishing the registers, the scientific monitoring of these children, the monitoring of the dossier, so that we can now form a health and safety monitoring system in this very sensitive area of children. Unfortunately, the one-sales debate on Article 8 has been called into question. I would also like to say a few things about this, because in the end it shows the essence of our culture. Firstly, the question of taking up gay couples, even though it is not the dominant one, has its legal dimension, its scientific dimension and politics. As far as its legal dimension is concerned, first of all, we must make it clear that adoption or childcare is a legal term of custody. It is the complete cut-off and replacement of the natural parent by the parent who adopts the child. Assumption is a social protection institution of this child, a parallel care with the natural parent, maintaining the right to return to the natural parent, to the physical family and divided into general, temporary, professional and a thousand other forms. Legally, then, it is impossible to distinguish homogeneous or heterogeneous couples within a cohabitation pact. He would have swallowed it either in Greek justice or in European law. If you do not include the cohabitation pact which objectively should be dealt with in a uniform legal way, whether it is a couple homogeneous or heterogeneous, then in essence, excluding the cohabitation pact, you exclude the right to take up all heterogeneous couples on the basis of their sexual preference. This also has another extension, however, that if I exclude on the basis of sexual preference the homosexual couple who are in a cohabitation pact, respectively, I exclude the only parental family and one single person, given that for both the single parent family and for the individual I have to investigate and control the sexual preference of the one who is candidate for admission and I have to check the evidence of incompetence that a man can have as a single parent to be a contractor to a child or, respectively, the maleity of a woman or her sexual preference to become a foster mother or not. So these logics are very dangerous, and you actually restrict the right to accept only those who are under marriage, whether religious or political. I'm saying this so we know what we're suggesting in here. Scientifically. There are many research, which has been heard by other colleagues, who have shown a situation that is obviously not a question of perversion, it is neither a contagious disease nor an intrinsic or acquired problem for some. You will well know that modern research clearly shows that the phenomenon is frequent, especially in teenage age, of sexual experience, of having homogeneous behaviors of children in their teenage phase, which naturally do not lead to homosexuality. Let us be clear, then, how these issues are dealt with. And much more to be clear that it's not a crime like paedophilia, as it was on a channel. The issue of the model, the pattern of parental and parental presence instead of parental (a) or (b) and a thousand other two issues. I don't understand! Do homosexual preferences, behaviors or choices not form within a heterosexual relationship? Are the children who are or become homosexuals not the products of a heterosexual relationship? Inside a heterogeneous family don't they grow? Respectively, a heterosexual family who knows whether or not he has ambiguous preferences? Who knows a father or mother in a heterosexual relationship if they shape amphetamine preferences or not? Who characterizes that? What right? There were statements, as I heard here by the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, a girl in America who said how badly treated her in a homosexual relationship. It's not the element of homosexuality in the relationship that showed the abuse of this girl. It's the parent's quality. Because, respectively, I can mention five hundred thousand reports and interviews of children in heterosexual relations, which have been abused or raped mentally or physically brutally. Is that part of the deposit an element to exclude a heterogeneous family from being a contractor or being a family to be adopted? So let's be clear. The role and nature of the gender or the role of the good parent is conquered, won and is not an element of gender choice alone or not. So assumption is a social institution for protecting the child. The assumption takes a child out of a sick, insecure environment and incorporates it into a safe protected environment. We heard about the dissolution of the Greek family, as if the Greek family worldwide had some other special features from a family of another country. Know clearly that the Greek family, like any family, requires care, affection, love. Also to know and be sure that a homosexual gives the same care, affection and love to a child, as a heterosexual. Politics now. Does it make sense for a socially progressive legislature to have a social absorption as well? It's really an agony. I accept it. Everyone will be anxious whether or not when you legislate something has social absorption. As anguish I can understand it. As a perception of maniacs, the battle of good with evil, I will not accept it, nor will I aim against anyone. However, when we talk about dematerialisation, that is to say, a change in behaviour and treatment of the needs of these children, we are talking about a regime of reform in the lives of these children. So we have to look at it with another logic. Rights are not a matter of majority perception or not. That is clear. Legislation should not reflect the degree of social consciousness, but should address and protect individual rights and be centred on social need. The legalization must therefore magnify the need and the right of a child and not reflect a social conscience that may exist. Historically, the right-based legislation has always had elements of bacterial violence, a bacterium that you legislate to enable this bacterium to create fermentation so that there is social development and social process, social propensity towards social maintenance. I have heard a colleague from the New Democracy saying 'What we live, what we hear today!'. I assume that he would say the same thing if he were a senator in the American south and that the abolition of slavery was voted on that day, if he was a representative of the parliament in Africa and were to abolish racial discrimination on that day or if he was in a parliament of a country that was fundamentalist because he was giving women the right to vote or the right to a diploma in women or the abolition of the death penalty. Let's be clear. The letters of Mount Athos, brought by the representatives of the Golden Dawn, who are against this logic, may also bring us the other statements and letters of the fathers of Mount Athos, these bright instructors and representatives of the modern darkening of the 21st century. What is the perception of Mount Athos and the holy fathers of civil marriage, identities, the burning of the dead, the building of the mosque, the symphony of cohabitation, the premarital sex, the adultery as a criminal deed? To be clear and not to play with these things. Finally, Mr President, I would just like to raise one point. We should be honest. That is why I say that I do not want to deal with mechanical precision in matters, but to be clear when we say'social'. What society are we talking about? Society is an area of social and rights needs and not our constitutive regions, not the conservative reflexes of our voters. Society is the needs and rights of these children and not our electoral clientele. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And those who talked about bowling for the kid who's going to school with two moms or two dads, let's think of something else: A fat, overweight kid doesn't take bowling? A child with a disability, with one hand, with a leg, with a physical atrophy, won't take bowling? Do we have special schools for overweight kids? Do we have special schools for a disabled child? Do we have a special school for a kid with one eye? We in this school include them, because that is where they will accept the bowling, and that is where training must strike this bowling and make an issue of educational process what racism means to a child with a problem or a child with two dads or two moms, so that this child can grow up with a sense of social tolerance, with a sense of sensitivity, with a sense of respect for diversity, so that he does not become a member of the 50th and 60th years old and sees the difference to him and votes against such issues and votes against the individual rights of children, just to mock up the maintenance of his electoral clientry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. We shall now proceed with the Independent Member, Mr Micho, who has the floor for seven minutes. Please, Mr. Micho, be consistent with time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. As a parliamentary representative over the People's Orthodox Alarm I have listened to previous speakers with great attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u15	The People's Orthodox Alert is not represented in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u16	I represent him. I said I represented him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u17	The People's Orthodox Alert...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Pavlidis, all right, we're not having a conversation about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u19	Let's go down. I heard you before very carefully. You talked about bowling in schools, you talked about stuff. You talked about kids who are abused by heterosexual couples. Did you make a law to protect these children, rather than the 'Friday' law, do you leave rapists free for the decongestion of prisons? All these years there have been abuses. All these years there have been abuses in institutions. What have you done, New Democracy? Has anyone spoken here about this issue, about rapes taking place, about beatings within institutions? Now you embraced them and remembered all these kids, why do they have to be adopted by homogeneous couples? I have heard some people say here about 'children of a lower god'. Who created “the children of a lower god”? Can someone tell us here? Apart from the problematic couples or couples who are dependent, there are children who have been there by their parents to these institutions from poverty, from tolerance, from the memorials you have voted for, from the measures you have taken, and that brings in our homeland. But, as many people have said here, we have immigrants to fill this gap, to end as a nation slowly. I listened carefully yesterday to Mr Dousina say about some research carried out by the largest institutes - companies in America - now, how you have America, for example, is another issue, does not have to do that - which, he says, is in favour of adoption and admission of children from homosexual couples. However, behind these companies, these institutes, these institutions - I do not know who they are - there are some donors trying to promote us, take us to the new order of things - that we are already in this part, do not talk about - so that we can end the family once and for all, end a good social state. Who are all these experts? But there are other experts that you have not mentioned to them, who tell examples of children who have lived in such situations. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, you yourselves are creating children of a lower god. Because when a kid's gonna take it, Dad's gonna take it to school or Mom and Mom's gonna see the other kids that their father and mother are going to take off, anyway, she's going to feel disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u20	There's a c.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u21	Is there a c? Very good. You've moved too far. Congratulations! You will also pass the rest of the countries of Northern Europe! I have heard Mrs Vaki say: 'No child at any institution, no child, no child, no child. I told you before: What have you done about it? I've never heard anyone get punished. And all these years, I remember from a young child I remember people talking about who couldn't have a child, I remember heterosexual couples trying for years and there's a bureaucracy that brings back this whole situation. And I remember heterosexual couples, who kept all the prerequisites, couldn't adopt one and two and three children. I know such couples. Unfortunately, however, nothing has happened. These children should have been in the unanswered with the present system. I guess the system wants there to be kids in the unclaimed. I heard Mrs Christodoulopoulos talking about the abused children yesterday. And I ask: has anyone been punished? Have you done anything to punish any of those who are in the foundations and abuse children? It is indeed made by heterogeneous couples. They do exist. It's a very small minority that abuses children. What have you done? Nothing at all. We said: Law Friday, prison decongestion, the rapists out, the killers out, the thieves out, the crooks out. We believe that homosexual marriages and the adoption of children by homosexual couples stop human evolution on the planet. It is therefore not normal and under no circumstances should it be legal. The examples and surveys carried out in West States have shown children with psychological problems and thus future problem adults. This bill breaks down the institution of the family. After the memorial laws you have passed, with the red loans, with what the loan sharks have imposed, you are taking homes, now you are extinguishing once and for all the family. On the other hand, homosexuals are a very small percentage worldwide. Some in the civilized Western world, however, promote homosexuality in every way. We also see child psychologists coming out and talking. We see a kid on the outside who drags two dads from the hand dressed as a woman, painted his lips and his eyes and take it to all the gay prides. And I want to ask: Do every year gay pride here. And others came out, like Mr. Bakoyannis, and he said why he shouldn't be gay pride. Mr. Bakoyannis has been jealous of Lamia. Take it there, get it all over Greece. Are these kids going to take Dad and Dad and Mom and Mom to take them to the gay prides to see? These examples will give them? Aren't they gonna smell them in it? I have told her openly about homosexuals: Everyone when he closes the door to his house is king in his house. No one can, but no one can tell him what to do. But they can't force us some things out. They can't, they're not capable of raising children. The kids are raised by a father and a mother, as we've all been born here. You won't stop either of you or the falsified civilized West. Because right now Western culture is in decline, it's rotting, whether you want it or not. We have examples in northern Europe, we know what is going on. In Norway they have gone a long way: it grabs the system, grabs the state itself, children from their parents. If you want to apply them in the course here too, hello! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As for the New Democracy, don't fool people, gentlemen. Some 'yes' and some 'no'? Why don't you take a seat? Mrs. Bakoyannis is in favour. The district manager of Central Greece is in favour. He came out and made it a boukon. Too many! Since you're a liberal party, why don't you come out and say it openly? Or anyone who opposes these things, get up and go. This bill is very serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. We are going with Mr. Sarakiotis, MP of SYRIZA. Here, Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor for seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. "I started going to "MONDA" to get information. I'd been looking for it a long time ago, and I went there because it's the center of most kids. When they heard that I was single and actually alone, the first thing they said to me is that "yes, of course you can adopt..." - they did not deny me that - "...but waiting will be huge for you." Priority is the married couples with a waiting list of four to five years, then the couples who already have a child and then I come. That means a decade of seven years. And then I had spoken to many colleagues who had worked in such centres and were told that there was a chance that the call would never happen even after ten years. I was disappointed that I would wait ten years. I wondered: Where will I be after all these years? Will I be all right? Will I have a job?" Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this story is only one of the thousands who have seen the light of publicity and have described the irreversible way in which we have been dealing with the issues of assumption and adoption for so many years. Today we are placed before our responsibilities as a political system, as citizens of a modern European country, as elected representatives of the Greek people. We are called upon to choose the side of history that will characterise each other as a representative of progress or of maintenance, equality or discrimination, social solidarity or retrogradeness. Many questions and a number of concerns are put forward and no one can rule out any of the public debate. Everyone has the right to express themselves constructively and productively. However, how would we put forward these views if we did not raise issues of promoting the institutions of assumption and adoption for discussion? How much longer would we hide under the carpet there are problems? Are we not interested in reducing the waiting time for these procedures, which was often 10 years old? Are we not interested in creating institutions that ensure the interests of children on a rational scientific basis? In the end, what's our role? To shape the social climate and listen to the needs of times or to passively monitor opinions based only on anger, depriving all scientific documentation? Let us all consider our responsibilities. This bill is an attempt to rationalise and institutionalise as it comes to putting an end to a sterile anachronistic regime that favoured founding and discouraged many of our fellow citizens even thinking about the prospect of having a child. It also gives a decisive blow to socially pathogenic - felony phenomena, in fact, character - such as the marketing of infants or children at an early age. Involves and coordinates all social structures, the tools of the state mechanism towards supporting the child and the potential family. It puts an end to introversion and customer relations, since it contributes to the destabilisation and participation of children in social life and education in an equal manner. The Ministry and the Minister responsible have submitted convincing samples of writing, after decisions have already been taken towards dehydration, as in the case of the Lehannes through brave funding. This draft law recommends a great opportunity to discuss issues which have a large share of Greek society for decades and have focused the ‘forgotten’ children. It was disharmony that the social demand did not find itself in legislative and executive power. The political system has never been serious about it and the power-holders have limited their interest in typical visits to institutions every Christmas and New Year's, with the sole aim of building and strengthening a philanthropist profile. Let us get away from the hypocrisy of the past and show the minimum level of social solidarity on an issue which, ultimately, relates to our democratic, cultural and humanitarian reflexes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much. Mrs Thalerite has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u25	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which makes an incision to the way the SYRIZA Government understands and plans the social state, moving one step further towards socializing the care and care of children and minors. We live at a time when it is imperative that we act as a state and as citizens, as a state and a society with solidarity and social sensitivity, and that each side should assume its responsibilities towards serious social phenomena and issues, such as the care of children who have lost it because of the wars of tolerance, the malicious environment, the loss of parents, the care of children and adolescents in terms of humanity and affection and respect for their right to a more decent life with equal rights in the game, education, dreams and equal access to the status of citizens, the establishment of children and adolescents who are incarcerated and incarcerated in institutions and various types of roofs, and the fight against child trafficking. We are living at a time when it is changing rapidly, reconstituting racial identities and racial roles, reconstructing parenthood and enriching dynamically or even sometimes by reversing, we would say, the content of motherhood and fatherhood, which, of course, today are not solely identical to the blood relationship nor to the so-called biological family, but to the choice of parental relationship either through assumption that is a social institution of solidarity or through adoption - childcare that is more established and legally more solid. In such a time, therefore, the government dares, I would say - and allow me this contradiction - that is self-evident. It moves on to an institutional section with two main axes and objectives. To reduce the waiting time - and this is one of the good times, we would say - by creating a deadlock and traumatic situations for both candidates and candidates and foster parents and especially for children themselves, and by establishing an institutional and scientific shield of the procedure through the creation of registers for minors, candidates and approved candidates and foster parents. So this is how the process is fully guaranteed and it is done in a completely scientific way. parental control is ensured, i.e. whether they are fit to take a child or child concerned and the rights of parents themselves, who in any case have the right to transparent and rapid implementation of the necessary procedures. Because we know very well how the system was working over the years of assumption. The reasons why the waiting period was so long I think they are well known and mentioned. First of all, the lack of staffing of social services and secondly, the delay in carrying out and completing two required social research. The first is research on the suitability of the candidate couple and the second is whether the particular couple is suitable to choose the particular child. With the draft law, therefore, these two surveys could also be entrusted to other social services, such as the municipalities, but also to certified social workers, certified by the Association of Social Workers of Greece. On the other hand, the system with the digitalised procedure is also being shielded, with these three electronic registers I mentioned earlier and in this way at last, colleagues and colleagues, in this country we will know the exact number of children present in the institutions or given for admission and adoption, as well as the exact number of candidate parents. The completion of the process therefore requires three safeguards, two social audits and successful and innovative, I would say, follow-up of a training programme. In this context, a central body for child protection is also set up, the National Admission and Adoption Council, which will have all the advisory support for child protection bodies and solve problems with the interpretation of the law, overcoming the application of the institution of assumption and adoption. The draft law, in addition to the intersection in the social state, goes ahead with a self-evident and progressive extension of rights and freedoms related to the possibility of taking on by couples with a cohabitation agreement. We've lived long enough since yesterday with reports of darkness and the horrific partners. At last, we're not revolutionizing! Urban and welfare state we're building. Don't go crazy! That is why the vast majority of the bodies called upon in the Committee on Social Affairs in this House have expressed opinions which adopt this institution. Association of Social Workers of Greece: "Children's targeting, non-discrimination with the aim of no child being founded and active participation of professionals". President of the Hellenic Social Solidarity Centre: "A major step in the right direction for child protection and destabilisation". Chairman of the Centre for Social Welfare of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace: “This is the best process. It must be done in a family that offers love and peace to children. Therefore, what is heterogeneous is not necessarily good and what is homogeneous is not necessarily bad." The Children's Rights Counselor: "The most important for children who go to foster families is the parent to have mental availability that will be judged ad hoc and not on the basis of sexual identity". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, the Director of Psychiatric Health of the Institute of Children's Health said: "There is no mental health problem for children growing up in gay couples. It is without meaning that the conversation focuses on the assumption of homogeneous couples. In the global society, it has been shown that there is no problem about the mental health of children nor does it affect sexual orientation more than other parents." To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, because experts and scientists have been placed in the House and we know that homosexuality is not at the expense of children, because reality has changed and overcome us given that thousands of children are growing up in alternative or in new forms of family, with one or two parents homosexuals, in homogenous families, adopted by their parents' companions or unofficial assumption regimes by homosexuals or homosexuals who play a role in their development, because there are non-terrestrial children, non-terrestrial people and non-terrestrial parents, because the love and care taken by a child in the family environment, but also the free and open education has nothing to do with sexual orientation, because, finally, the assumption is an institution of social solidarity, hospitality and the form of alternative parentality which is claimed by a child in the social need of children to remain intact and call for a strong democracy and a majority of your anti-confidencestitutionstitutionstitutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Theleritis. We're on our way to SYRIZA Congressman, Mr. Big Housekeeper. Here, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today's sitting is a historic meeting for the Greek Parliament. The issues concerning children are the most serious issues for our society, even - and for our homeland, let alone when we talk about children who for many reasons do not have a stable, healthy family environment and therefore the state undertakes to replace parents who do not exist and take care of them. Today's bill I think it is a true cut, a huge step in the real support for children, who need either assumption or adoption. It is the first genuine effort in post-government years to gain a modern system of assumption and adoption, which will lead to helping these children live as normal a life as possible. To date, the procedures have been so slow, so bureaucratic, that most candidates for adoption have been disappointed and abandoned. I ask: what is the result? To increase a great deal in private adoptions, that is to say, which do not require such a timely process, but which are directly carried out by the natural parent towards the god by means of a mere ratification of the court. As you know, it is a large proportion of these private adoptions, which also conceal economic transactions. They're not that innocent! And no matter how sad and unacceptable this is, this is happening. All previous governments have refused to deal with the problem for decades. They renounced their responsibilities and left most of the children in need of help, lost in the grasses of an antiquated and completely ineffective mechanism. The only happy point of the delay in this process since this state's inactivity is that there have been too many private organisations and institutions which have helped - and have so far been helping - the children in need and thus replacing the state. The absence of a responsible and serious state for protecting children who have no family or who must be protected by a dangerous family ends today with this bill. There are too many provisions that make a huge difference in how the system of acceptance and adoption works from now on. First, the creation of the electronic National Register of Candidate Parents and the National Register of Approved Minors will allow us to have a specific and direct picture of both children who need to find a foster family, as well as of families who can become contractors. Then another important point is the special care taken for children with disabilities and serious mental disorders, which, of course, need special care. These will be able to have as contractors professionals who will know how to handle their needs. Finally, I would like to make a special reference to the training programmes that one has to follow in order to be able to register with the Parent Applicant's Register. It is now a very important condition that demonstrates the seriousness of the assumption. Let us not forget that no matter how good a person feels, it is not necessary to be fully prepared to become a contractor. Education and training is an important point and an essential part of this process. He may have all the goodwill, but he doesn't have the potential. I would not like to go any further into the individual articles. In addition, excellent colleagues who have already spoken before us have given a perfect picture of these arrangements. I want to make a little mention of the subject that has taken more than the rest of the publicity lights. I am, of course, talking about the possibility that couples who have drawn up a cohabitation agreement, whether homosexuals or heterogeneous couples will now be able to become foster parents. The coexistence of couples - I did some research, I'm not entirely sure - is about four hundred. Do you think all these couples, the homosexuals, are in the mood to become foster parents? I don't believe it. Also, as you know, there are heterogeneous couples who have performed political or religious marriages and do not want, at present, children to have children for too many reasons. There are career women. There are people who want to travel. So, because they have committed a political or religious marriage they must also have children? Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the wedding ceremony, it says: 'Grow up and be approached'. In other words, marriage is not about a pleasure for the Church, but only about children. Well, they're sinners. Every time they get in touch, they have to have a child. That's what religion says. Even contraception to take, you're a sinner! You're gonna do one, two kids? As much as you can do. Only that is the purpose of religion, of having children. With this in mind, do you think a family that has children and cannot raise them, put them in an institution or beg or beg, rather than be given to a foster family, without being cut off from their natural family, from their natural parents and from their brothers? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I know that part of our society has reacted to this. I understand that the unknown always makes us hesitant and frightens us. I will not talk about the self-evident thing, namely the alternative to keep the children in these institutions. But I want all of us to see the general picture. The legislature is here to make the needs of society reality, based on the time we live, not in the 1960s or 1821s, but in the 2018s. If society were not really ready for this step, we would not be able to discuss it in the House today. Moreover, in addition to any individual reactions, Greece as a whole does not seem to have any objection to this arrangement. And, indeed, the representative of the Church did not refer to the cohabitation pact for homogeneous or heterogeneous couples. I asked him a question. It has only been mentioned that they separate themselves more easily with the cohabitation agreement. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It's important. And I told him that with the new law, even religious, marriage, when both parties agree in a month, marriage can be dissolved in a notary. So, did he trouble him if it's gonna be a week, a day or a month? I am very pleased that we are discussing a bill that will help children and adolescents, who have been deprived of the most valuable, of their family, in practice. They are children who have been alone since early in life and have seen the hardest part of reality. These kids today, we all support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Big Housekeeper, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u29	I'll be done in a minute. We hope that the next generations of children who will pass through the assumption and adoption process will live in close proximity to the human system that will help them to become happy adults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u30	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Megalomustakas, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to start by putting on a few pillars that we need to put to debate this issue. First of all, I do not think that this bill of controversy and opposition is an area for this. I have the impression that we all think the right thing is one: the good of children. There is therefore no reason to raise the tone, there is no need for a micro-political and opposition phantom. This bill should not be discussed today. It should have been discussed many years ago. We're hidden behind the sun. You do well to bring it in. It is a very good idea, but it is neither an intrinsic one - which many of your SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues have said - nor a rhetorical one, nor an innovative one, nor something that should enthusiast us. I hardly feel sorry for the fact that we have arrived in 2018 to learn in Greece how many people want to take on or adopt a child or how many children are in institutions or even on the streets. This is a sad fact. From there on, the bill, as it has come, does not satisfy us either legally or politically. I should like to explain why it is not legally satisfying: Reading the bill, apart from the fact that there are copies of a bill that the New Democracy then wanted to bring - which was not bad - seems to have been erected. There are no provisions repealed in this bill. So, what registries will apply? The old or the news? Here is a problem for those who will have the administration of the institutions and make the decisions, but also for judges, if necessary at some point. According to what records will they decide? According to old records or new records? Also, because we all know well what "Greece" means and what "Greek State", I do not know how functional it will be with the social workers of the municipalities and individuals. Here's a node you want to make on a road, and if the municipality's in trouble with the decentralized, there's a big problem that can delay you even a year. We're afraid of that because we haven't fixed the rest of the mechanism. The theory is fine. We are very afraid that you will find it very difficult for us to implement them in practice and even more hard to control them. The other thing that is created is that there has been no bill, you have not brought us a bill, which regulates and regulates situations with institutions. Yesterday I heard a government MEP say that some of these children's protection institutions - do not put them all in a bag - are hellflies. It is shameful for us, for all of us and for the gentleman who mentioned it, to call them hellholes, when we are the ones who need to improve conditions in our Greece and especially for our children and especially for those who had the misfortune to be in an institution, even if this institution is working perfectly, because we cannot say that this is consistent with normality. So we should first solve the institutional issue, because even now that you say that the procedures are going to get faster, the child will certainly sit in an institution for a year and a half. We cannot call 'collective' the foundations in which we will have our children. I can't think of that. As long as we know that they are hellhouses, let us change them today, since the previous ones have not changed them. I don't only blame you for that, because the big foul has happened all these years. I know what we're in, I know where our economy is, but we're talking about the kids. So we don't like what's going on, we don't like the way the bill came, we don't at all like how you managed it, because you just did it, as many of you mentioned. You just did the self-evident thing and you didn't do it right! Some have accused us of not supporting this bill, because it is a good bill. I can explain that the bill is a good idea, but from there it does not satisfy us. First of all, we want to express our objections to Article 8. When we had rejoined this Step to be placed either for the cohabitation pact or for the change of identity, we had expressed our reaction, although we voted for the cohabitation pact and drew attention, we had hit the adoption bell at the time by homosexual couples, as well as for the assumption. Why? Not because we are conservatives or scavengers - in this area where this bill is moving, we should not be talking about conservatives or progressives or any of them - but simply because I have heard too many of my colleagues from the SYRIZA talking about physics and regularity. Also, I heard too many talk about the right to diversity. These two come in a contradiction. I am not saying in any way that none of my space, from the Centro Association, believes that homosexuals are bad people or incapable of dealing with such a matter. What we believe is that it is against all of us 'I believe', whether these are religious or nature's rules or social. First of all, the average Greek does not know the difference of acceptance and adoption. Should we not work so that the necessary structures are created, that the necessary campaigns are made, that the world can be informed, know, become its property and that this discord is not created? If you move out and talk to the world, you will see that there are many who are pros and even more who are against. And I'm telling you that with full consciousness. I have had too many discussions, because I am very concerned about the bills concerning children, and the last thing we need today in Greece is to create such divisions. I have heard too many speakers say that approved scientists have expressed themselves and have conducted studies that there is no question of a child growing up in a family. You know, too, that humanitarian and social sciences in no way have the scientific objectivity of the sciences. Usually, the result of the studies and surveys of these scientists is similar to that of their examination of the subject and similar to that of their sample. Other results, that is, it will make such research or such study in Sweden, the Netherlands, America and others in Greece. We need to see a little, and what the data are. Children, who need to go to a foster family, are, in most cases, children who escape normality. They are children often abused by families who did not provide a normal environment. So I don't think - or rather I'm sure - that they'll find the peace they need in a family of the same family. Why? Because what our society has, neither the couple nor the child can deal with. I have heard a lot of colleagues say that politicians must be ahead, that they show the way. Yes, but politicians must have open eyes, open ears and, of course, open mind, to see, listen, know what's going on around them. I can't accept a single child living miserable. I know that founding is a phenomenon that should not exist, and we should all fight together to throw it off the ground from Greek society and from all societies. However, with this data we have today, I should first - and I repeat it! - to see our foundations, possibly to create the registers, to see how many families they want to adopt or take as a foster family a child and then move on to such a delicate subject. Why would you let it be understood, why do you allow people to think that you are doing this, you brought us this bill, to hide other things that are coming, to mislead them? Why wouldn't he come in the right way? I didn't come here today to make an opposition, I didn't come here to blame you for bringing this bill, as you brought it. I have come to be alarmed, to hear another point of view - you, of course, can have your own opinion - which I believe is being embraced by many people in Greek society. We should legislate more carefully, wisely and with even greater consultation. It's not enough for two weeks on this matter. Now how the institutions come to the House we know very well who decides which bodies will come and talk to us. So, look at the little more global theme. I'm going to test some studies on the other side in comparison, which are not so optimistic about how children grow up in a family. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned studies, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I really do not feel well to be here at the moment, and we are having this debate without having come to an end, without all the opinions being heard. We should decide very carefully for the good of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. Mr Georgadas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I think that from all the wings of the House there was a central idea in relation to Article 8. I'm going straight into this. We must best protect the best interests of the child. This is the core of legislation's feasibility with regard to assumption or adoption, the interests of the child. Who best ensures the best interests of the child? Are there objective conditions which may describe what is the child's interest, so that the committee responsible can make its assessment? Are there any subjective factors affecting any such assessment? Are there any findings of the scientific community, which undeniably come to show what is the interest of the child? There are many positions that may be conflicting, but there are also some assumptions that are undeniable and which we all have to do here today. I start from Article 8 of the bill to be passed, the way you brought it. It says in Article 8: ‘Between more suitable candidates for parenting, the choice is always made in the interests of the minor in the light of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child ratified by Law 2101/1992’. There is indeed such an international convention. It was ratified in 1992, twenty-six years ago, by our country and concerns the rights of the child. There is a description of many rights there. Let's say there's the child's right to communicate with his natural parents. However, there are judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which prohibit parents from communicating with their children, because, in the light of the approach of the case and the evidence available, it was found that it was not in the interests of the child. The assumptions here and which no one can overcome are as follows: In a possible assumption by homogeneous couples there is no distinct role, that is, the standard of parental and parental. This in itself is not just an assumption without an impact or a symbolism. In other words, the lack of the model of a man and woman in a minor child, the image and experience of it only by people of one sex throughout the adult life and adulthood then it is certain that it will affect him and that will not appear in those years, but will appear later. He'll only have one sex standards. I think no one can question that. From one sex, his images will be from one sex and his experiences will be. Second admission. It is certain - and I think that we can all easily see that - that Greek society and societies in general will have a negative impact on the face of such an image, such a situation. We can't overlook it. It is certain that there will be a negative impact. Will this negative impact not affect the upbringing of this child? You tell us that there are studies that show the opposite. These studies, firstly, are in other societies, in America, basically, secondly, have been carried out on a very small sample, but most importantly, over a very short period of time, because we know very well that all these negative effects are consequences which will occur many years later, in the adulthood of the child. So there are no scientific findings that support this view at present. On the contrary, on the basis of the data that each of us in society can see and everyone through his experience and from his life, we know very well that it will be difficult for such a child in normal conditions to develop and if we accept that the feasibility is the normal psychosomatic and social development of the child, then I think there are many important questions to ask. I am, therefore, convinced that the mistake made - why is there a mistake on the part of the majority - is what? That basically the right to take on the same family couples refers to the rights of candidate contractors. It must not be the extent of the rights of candidate contractors to be the criterion to assess the usefulness or feasibility of such a provision, which must really have the best interest of the child. The issue of the rights of candidate contractors should not be the primary rule in this regard, because what is of real interest is the intention and the possibility of providing such an environment to the child that will indeed prove to be in its normal psychosomatic development. I think, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that we must not go into any advancement or conservatism here. We must realistically also see the conclusions of science and the environment in which this law will be judged to be implemented and applied, and the consequences which we may not be able to see at the moment in their details, but it is certain, based on the assumption I mentioned, that they will be negative and that we are obliged to vote against such a provision, precisely because such a provision does not serve the interests of the child, but ultimately serves the truth and arguments of some of the rightmakers, who are, however, overlooking the consequences of their persistence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much. We are going with the next speaker, who is the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Blasi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed unique how you manage even in matters where we can achieve coincidences, even in matters where we can have wider or smaller consensus, you can divide us into Parliament and, of course, our people. I am not going to mention, of course, all aspects of life, such as economics, where we really have a completely different worldview - you want the poorening of the people, little money to a lot of people and then allowances to the young people, while our party says that we support the middle class and we help the poorest factors of new wealth - but more so I shall refer to social issues, such as migration. In foreign caravans you have allowed them to enter undisturbed anywhere in our country, either from the sea, where the Prime Minister said there are no borders, or from Evros. When we were setting up the wall, you were out and blaming us from morning till night. The same applies to the violation you have left her uncontrollable. The collectives do whatever they want. Society feels unprotected. Universities have turned into a man of lawlessness. The same applies, of course, to the cultivation of cannabis which you have recently diagnosed and broke your clothes that we are talking only about the use of medicinal products and the next time and the Prime Minister's strategy adviser, but also your own MPs have started and are talking about the recreational cannabis. The truth is you have a secret agenda for everything. You did the same with the cohabitation pact. When you brought it here for the gay couples, once again you said "We are not going to talk about assumption. We are not going to talk about adoption." And there it is! A few months later, you bring it! Even your own Members have come to the difficult moment once again, in order to keep their position, to vote for something they do not want. So this bill is a crucial social issue concerning the decoupling of children through the institutions of assumption and adoption. It also needs study and particular consideration and attention, since it has to do - to make it clear - about the future and life of the child and not about those who want to become foster parents. Any decision must be founded, documented and in favour of the happiness of the child. Indeed, the bill has some positive elements. We, as a New Democracy, will vote for all of this with which we agree, as many have done in the three and a half years of your governance. You, of course, did not do it once either in an article or in a bill in the two and a half years of governance of the New Democracy. Such positive elements are the provision of incentives and facilities to contractors, but also insurance cover for children, the compulsory training of applicants for occupational assumptions for children with disabilities and mental illnesses. We are going to say 'yes' in all of this. As regards, of course, the reduction in the time of completion of the assumption or adoption, there are actually no new arrangements and I think that was the most important one you should put as a priority. But Article 8 is crucial and the examination of this article must be legal, sociological, psychological and pedagogical. I'll be clear. With regard to legal examination, no one can doubt question the rights of homosexual couples and our fellow humans who have a particular sexual preference and want to offer love, care and affection to a child. After all, our great liberal party respects human rights and individual freedoms, as well as individuality. But, fortunately or unfortunately, the legal protection of these rights cannot overlook natural laws, unwritten but permanent law, the physical order of things. This assumption shall correct the first obstacle to the acceptance of this Article. Secondly, there is the sociological aspect of the matter. The Greek society is not prepared to accept such an arrangement. Of course, neither the Church nor the parent and guardian association nor the school clubs. However, as Parliament cannot hear what this society is saying, because we are its representatives and not arbitrary or uncontrolled speakers, as you think you are. Thirdly, the psychological aspect of the issue requires that the child has a beside him and in front of him at the tender age of his personality and the two sexes as a model, namely father and mother, and male and female. I don't think a gay couple can give that standard. Fourthly, the pedagogical examination of the issue is about dealing with the child of a family sponsor at school, without being the child's fault, without being the family's fault. It is certain, and the experts say, that in the upper classes of primary school and in the middle of secondary education the child will also accept comments and pressures of various kinds, the well-known bullying. Who's gonna protect the child from this? You're not telling us. In any case, it should be aimed at dismantling children, being in families and not in institutions, given the negative effects on psychism and their development since their stay in institutions. The first concern, however, is the child, the best interest of the child, is not the desire of candidate contractors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. So I would like to ask each of you three hundred people who are here today. Would you change the two parents with whom you grew up with a couple of contractors? I think I know her, but you won't tell most of you. Because there is a lot of talk lately about progressiveity on every issue you bring here and keep saying that you are a party progressive, it must sometime end this story. Progressivity is not the complete decriminating of the use of cannabis and the disorientation of youth. Progressivity is to inspire youth, give it opportunities to work and be useful in society. Progression is not to let collectives dismantle everything and lawlessness reach red. Progressivity is to make citizens feel security and students move freely to university. Progress is not to open the border wide and let illegal immigrants enter the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Progressivity is to protect your borders and at the same time to show social sensitivity to real refugees. Finally, progressiveity is not to force, to oblige an unwashed infant to have fostered parents. Progress is to respect human rights and individual freedoms in practice, while supporting the institution of the family. A thousand yes to dematerialization, but not to incomprehensible or dangerous to the future of a child as a child assumption, not to Article 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mandas, has the floor under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u37	I'm sorry about what I just heard. Although I have been truly and scientifically provoked, I will not respond and will not get carried away with what I have heard from a doctor and university a little while ago. I am consciously choosing, ladies and gentlemen, in this bill not to make any comment on the general situation, the topicality, the political issues and so on. I would like to speak strictly about this legislative initiative entitled 'Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions'. I am making this choice because this initiative added to important other initiatives at the level of the enlargement of rights has two characteristics. The first feature is that it is a bill of our choice and not a bill imposed on us. We have the full ownership of this initiative. This is critical in the days and years we live. The second feature of this bill is that everyone admits that it has positive provisions and would probably be voted by unanimity, as long as it did not have the "outside here", evil article 8. This article, which practically gives all adults, regardless of sex, religion, colour, sexual orientation, etc. and independent form of family: one parent, with any sexual orientation of couples, again with any sexual orientation and any form of sexual orientation that is envisaged, for example: marriage of religious, political or whatever you want, cohabitation pact, etc., to have the right to become, if appropriate, either the couple or the parent, as a family of assumption, that is what this is about. I think we should be careful at this point for this very reason. I am not going to enter the dilemma 'no' or 'yes' in Article 8, because that is not just the problem. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'd ask for some quiet, if possible. Colleagues speak outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u38	Silence is necessary, please. Keep going, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u39	If you want, Mr. Marcus, a little quiet, because we can't talk. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u40	We don't have to make a comment. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u41	I say this: let us think about it a little bit from the back. Could we, in the year 2018, rule out as a legislative initiative, a right, which there is no question that it belongs to everyone? Should we discuss all the other issues, see it, but is there a question that we might have on this basis, in this House, in 2018, any reason to discriminate? It is a crucial question, a crucial question from which no one can escape. So I say that this bill is not a flare, it comes within the framework of a comprehensive plan that we unfold for the family and for the child. Reminding the 260,000 for family allowances, I remind you of the hundred and fifty thousand school meals, I remind you of the 500,000 for day-care stations, the 15 million for the dehydration process, etc. What could be the title of the bill would be: "Measures to promote the institutions of assumption and adoption in the interests of the child" and to enable these children to live outside the institutions. I would like to say here that first of all we need to speak with greater clarity and a greater depth, Minister, because this is the situation. Why is this situation today in our country and not just? I would add - in what has already been said in relation to the shortcomings in social services, in relation to the judicial malfunctions and problems at the speed with which these issues are being dealt with - that there are some other deeper things that are - I would say - in the field of stereotypes, opinions, perceptions, etc. Let's sit down and think a little bit. Let me talk about adoption. When a couple, a parent, wants to raise a child, what exactly does he think? Let's put an upper finish and think about it, how does the kid who's going to grow up? Does the big majority think of a child as healthy and within him has a wish to be healthy, to be possible, to be smart? I'd say it's a torque that we can't forget, first. Secondly, let us think a little bit about this: why is it from the adoptions made only 1/5 that are from the foundations and the rest are not from the foundations? Because a large part of the foundation population does not respond to what the parent shapes as anticipation. One more thing: there are the children who are disabled. I will say that children with a set of disabilities, because these are often complex issues. So, children, who are, I would say, difficult to grow up and in a prospect of trouble for the whole of their lives. Why am I saying this? Because I would like to say that this whole process of assumption and adoption and, above all, this great goal, with which all sides seem to agree, the objective of deinsurance and the objective of not having institutions, which anyone would say is perhaps one thing that may seem utopian, but it must be our goal, is a complex and complex process. We must be serious in our minds that this requires time, it requires commitment, it requires skilled people, multidisciplinary groups and, of course, it requires a climate in society, which we must build. That's why I'm saying that I shouldn't and I don't think the bill does it under any circumstances. Because the bill puts precisely this framework in order to start this work that is extremely important. We must understand, be aware of all this process and the difficulties it involves. One more thing: Today we say that children in the foundations are two to three thousand. Generally speaking, we don't know. But what we have to deal with is not only trying to get the children out of the foundations, but also to put the barriers so that children don't get into the foundations. I mean, we both have to be able to see. Because I have an experience of mental health, it is what the 'new-year-olds' say. In other words, they go in different ways and date in a process. I am saying this to emphasise that this work, which we are undertaking and which we are establishing today, is a difficult task, is a complex project. It is a project, however, which is not only necessary, but is the only project. That's what all the parties agree about. This is the basic alternative we have. There is no question here, because from all sides of the House it is said that the possibility of having a child in a family is clearly better than having a child in an institution. Let me go a little further: it is crucial that we do not add this without any new discrimination within the legislative process. And I'll say two specific things and I'll document them. In Article 9, ladies and gentlemen, there are two elements which I think will not add anything. The title of Article 9 is: ‘Required supporting documents and a procedure for registration in the Applicant Parents’ Special Registers and in the National Register of Candidate Parents’. In the second, it states that a certificate is required from a public institution of nursing, which shows that the applicant and its associates do not suffer from chronic communicable illnesses. For those who know - now I do not see any of my colleagues here or rather the President-in-Office is, I have forgotten him, but he is on the phone - when we talk about chronic communicable diseases, usually in this case we are talking about HIV and hepatitis type B or type C. Practically - to be practical - to put every family in this process, to get certificates from public institutions that it does not have this problem, it creates a distinction. Why, tell me you, a patient with AIDS who is being treated - and we know that 2018 is not 2009, have a lot of things changed - why is it not appropriate to become a foster parent? The same applies to the next point. ‘Certificates’, says, ‘public nursing establishment, which shows that the applicant and the persons associated with him do not suffer from mental illness’. Do you know what the prevalence of mental illness is? 30% in the general population. So, the one who has a generalised anxiety, a panic disorder, a depression, and even more serious mental illnesses, why is a Priori not fit to become a parent contractor? In this sense, I propose that these two points be removed, and of course in the process of assessment by the social worker, if we look at a matter either in the physical or mental health of the candidate contractor, which may create matters appropriately as a contractor, then yes, we can ask for consideration. No one forbids us from doing so, but if we do so, we will have a tail - to say it practically - outside the external medical services of the public hospitals, and we will not have a substantial assessment. We'll only have one production of certificates, without a counterfactual. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall be coming to an end. I have tried to say from the outset that this initiative is an initiative within the overall planning of the initiatives we have for the child and the family. I have also tried to say and stress that within this procedure, yes, it is crucial, in fact, that Article 8, not on the rights of homosexual couples or on the different sexual orientations a person can have, but above all on the rights of the child. Finally, I have tried to say that this process - to know what we are talking about and about those who have knowledge about these issues - is a complex process, a process that requires a lot of work, a lot of commitment, too - and I am ending with this - the challenge, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, is before us. The challenge is ahead of us, it is in the process of implementing this project, and I am absolutely certain that we are now doing a deep reformist section that we will also implement in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u42	First of all, I would like to make a clarification, Mr Manda. The President or the President-in-Office of the Council - it does not matter - when he uses the phone from the Chair is on matters of Parliament. It's not about his private affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u43	Of course, Mr President. I'm sorry, I just wanted your opinion at that time as a doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u44	Okay. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of the Old Faliros (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed with Mrs Skoufa, Member of the SYRIZA, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u45	So let us talk, ladies and gentlemen, about sexuality. 'Cause otherwise I had in mind starting my current position, otherwise it's been coming from the flow of conversation for two days. Without wishing to go into the scientific field of Mr Manda, who is a psychiatrist, or all the psychologists or social workers who may be among us, I think that speaking about whether or not they are gay or not - I will do after segregation, in order to learn to discuss the concepts between us - couples have the right to assumption, is based on a priori assumption in the minds of those who criticize this article. What's that assumption? It's the admission that you go gay equals a bad parent, that further homosexuality is the wrong sexual choice, and so as a homosexual I won't give the right sexual standards of sexual education to my child, etc. These logics, however, remind me of only extremely authoritarian and authoritarian regimes, which said they were based on supposedly medical opinions and the Mengele type scientists, who said that the standard of the right man is tall, blonde, galanish with a skull calibre both, with fingers and everything else that escaped from this standard that was arbitraryly achieved by this particular authoritarian civilization, is for Kayades. In addition to this, however, what needs to be done and employs the scientific community and, unfortunately, we did not have the luxury of having a two-day, three-day conference by psychologists, psychiatrists and social workers, so that we, too, can be informed - apologies - of the strange Members of Parliament, is what? Getting informed - even by teachers - what a proper parent means. That's what's under review. It's one of the things that sets this bill as a basis. In my opinion, adding a small stone, let us remember the pattern of the right and good parent, the saying of Halle Gimpran, who said that the children we are giving birth, the children we raise are not ours. What does that mean further? That even if I have a child, even if I adopt a child, even if I accept as a foster family a child, I have no right to predetermin, not only his sexual orientation, but even his profession or his more general choices in life. This thing must be controlled by the state and the competent scientific and social bodies when it comes to a family who wants to accept or adopt. How much can we be good parents, to support our child's choices, our child's free choices. And yet another criticism of this article or rather criticism of the criticism of this particular article. Ladies and gentlemen, in psychology there is not only the model of bichebiology. Beechviorism was based on honourable psychologist Pavlov, who said that every time I show the bone in the dog, the dog will run the saliva. What do I mean by that? To have a child as parents a homosexual couple does not mean that like a dog, completely bichebiorist and abolishing a basic principle of liberal ideology, namely the free choice of the individual, beyond the sexual predestination of his parents, beyond the class origin of his family, has a free choice and that we must support. So it is not the child who grows up in a foster family the little dog that will see the gay couple, the homosexual dad with his friend, the homosexual mom with her girlfriend and says: "Oh, this is the only model and that's what I want to follow." Beechviorism was not entirely supported either by the most authoritarian regimes that wanted to take off the squared and regulated type of man. It's not based, there's no bichebianism in free choice and human behavior. Finally, more importantly, this bill is part of it. In order to clarify what it means, to cut it off means that, once I have a 'normality' - that is, my experience shows that three thousand children are locked up in institutions, but well, other bad, three thousand children who from infants deprive the arms and breasts of mother, the attachment and attachment necessary for the pre-school stage to a natural person, infants and children who have until now been doomed to wait for a whole life without having to live the will of the house and love - this "normality" bill comes to break it and support, as was the cheque of the Child's Counselor, the assumption without discrimination, only the suitability of each couple or every unit and every individual to be an appropriate parent. And that suitability is judged by everyone every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too. Please take the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with what I intended to finish and reminded the Protestant - I do not know which colleague from the Bureau will succeed him - that today's debate coincides with a happy anniversary, is the day of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples following the advancement of the Soviet army in Berlin, but also with two sad anniversaries concerning our country. One concerns a member of the Greek Parliament, an excellent vocal voice, Georgios Tsarouhas from the executives of the anti-Declaratory struggle, who, after horrific torture, succumbed on 9 May 1968 to the Cypriot's inquiries that were set up in the current Thessaloniki War Museum and, after many years of efforts of the Association of political prisoners of the dictatorship and with a government decision, as you know from last year, the commemoration area for the anti-Distant resistance operates. So I told Mr Kremastino that when this Chamber is filled with it before the vote, we must honour the memory of a colleague of ours who lost his life in fighting a tyrannical regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Mitafidis, may I interrupt you? As I have said, I have no objections and since the House has no objection to deciding what you have said. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u49	There's no objection. So we decided. Go on, Mr. Mitafidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u50	The other anniversary, of course, which is linked to our discussion that you will see, also organically, is about the last bloody battle that was fought in the city of Thessaloniki in May 1936 against the rising fascism. It is the labor uprising of May 1936, where under the order of Metaxas he drowned in the blood and twelve Thessaloniki workers died. Metaxas had been commanded, coming from Belgrade, to shoot at the scout in a city that had risen up against the consequences of the 1929-1933 crisis. I would like to return, however, to what I said before. You know that one of the'selected' objectives of the Nazi regime was those that called them human beings, as we translate the German term 'undermensch', if I pronounce it correctly. The people, of course, were also subjected to homosexuals, who brought what was rightly called "the pink swastika", the backward triangle. In fact, he has given them special treatment. A mean of life were not in the camp over a week and their hanging was carried out by their elbows to prolong their martyrship. I would like to tell you that the German state recognised the holocaust of homosexuals only in 1960 and the first monument to these wronged fellow humans was founded in the Netherlands. I say this because we hear in this Chamber many preservative lessons and I think we should go back to history, because that gives us and, if you like, a criterion not to discuss in this Chamber on biological terms, but on historical, social and political terms, when it comes to our people. I would like to remind you that anti-fascist victory, what we call the anti-fascist acquis, which is completely questionable - and we have this in the House itself, unfortunately, we have those who are horrific about the sowing of defeated Nazism and who imitate its crimes and are horrific about them - included two other aspects: the social state - to recall that the English soldiers were fighting in Africa Court having in their pocket the Veveridge plan on social security, the promise that they would not come back to the hunger of the 1930s - and also, of course, the grant of rights. Where are we today? This day also coincides with another day, which will, of course, be celebrated. It is Europe's day. This day of Europe, of course, if you see Robert Souman's history, it is full of anthems in solidarity and in the elimination of inequalities and balanced development, which was, of course, supported by the European Coal and Steel Consortium - that was the material foundation - today is something too pale. Europe must now become the most competitive region in the world. This is the neoliberal ideology that has been introduced and its consequences, of course, we see them in our own country. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to take the step down - I believe that this legislative initiative by the government, which you have charged with conspiracy interpretations with the world, is correct. You cannot compromise the Conservative - how can I say it - of opposing that on the foundations of this party that governs it is what I have said before, that the Left is enlightening. Understood. We're not making any tricks, not election or anything else. It is a very long-reaching debt. I mean it's the best memorial - day that is today - for our wrongdoing fellow humans who have fallen victim to Nazi atrocity. This is our Left. At last, make peace with this idea!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. Mrs Vanja, SYRIZA Member, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is, in my opinion, one of the most important things to be done, because it concerns the protection of children who lack a family environment or are deprived of a healthy family environment. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] It is well known, both to us and to society as a whole, that the existing institutional framework concerning adoption and assumption and, more generally, to children's rights is, in addition to dysfunctional and anachronistic and totally ineffective. In other words, it can no longer serve - and in my opinion it has never served - the purposes for which it was established. Proof of this is the very large number of children who remain in institutions and hospitals, at the same time the very large number of candidates or foster parents who expect to have a child, but of course the very small number of annual adoptions in the country, which unfortunately goes down every year. In addition to delays, bureaucracy and inefficiency, however, the existing framework favours and gives rise to circles of illegal adoption, namely the sale of infants and children. Victims of this industry, involving representatives of respectable scientific and professional sectors, are of course children, but of course also parents, biological and positive. I therefore believe that it is our intention in this Chamber to break a abscess and create a credible, serious and effective institutional framework, which is a major social issue, which is the protection of children. I would like to mention a few points in the draft law, which in my opinion will change the current distorting situation: the first point is the creation of the National Adoption Council. Beyond the importance of this in itself, the creation of a central advisory body, which will propose and give its opinion on planned policies on this subject, I am very pleased with the composition of this Council as well. It is one of the few times where, in an advisory body of the state, experts and knowledge of the matter are involved, which will cover all stages of the process. I would mention this because the usual practice is to manage these service councils, which usually deal with one-sided issues, in a strictly technocratic capacity and leave out the other parameters. So here we are escaping, and that is very pleasant. A second point is the creation of national and special registers of minors, candidate contractors and candidate parents. This is where he's trying to get in order. Unfortunately, the Greek state does not know about a number of issues that are very serious, both in terms of production and other measures. But now we are talking about children and it is unacceptable for the Greek state not to know how much it is, where and where the children are for assumption or adoption are. There should therefore be the same information for candidate contractors and foster parents. Another point is the programme of education, training and support for candidate contractors and fostering parents. Obviously, when we talk about assumption and adoption, we are talking about a very difficult project and, of course, people who want to adopt or become contractors have a lot of appetite and a lot of enthusiasm, but they also need the help and support of specialists and some knowledge. This process must therefore be a prerequisite and a provision of the state. Another element of the bill is supervision and monitoring. Here, too, we are making a difference because ordinary practice says that when we adopt something, we are ending with it and we are neither interested in its implementation nor in monitoring how it is progressing. Here, therefore, it is very important for the child to have a continuity and after completion and assumption and adoption and the state to function as a custodian. The professional assumption is - at last! - an institution of self-evident nature. In addition to the social benefits of dematerialisation, there are economic benefits. Any financial cost to the parent contractor cannot, of course, be compared to the benefit that may exist. I would also like to raise a few issues with regard to the conditions for admission. I think Mr. Maddash mentioned some too. As far as the condition of physical health is concerned, I think it can be both interpretable and misinterpretable and inhibitable, or also racist and misunderstood. I would like to say the same about the adequate financial resources, which are the ones that will prove and the possibility for the contractor or foster parent to provide the child with the necessary resources. I think that if there are no misunderstandings - and not only - some circuits which can be exploited by the candidates, the conditions must be clearly and clearly defined so that procedures can be made easier and red tape reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of every law in its course can be clarified by more ministerial decisions or administrative decisions, which will clarify more and more things. I think that what is the major and should be more concerned with the National Representation is the objective of the legislative initiative and whether the objective is achieved with this draft law. In my opinion, the objective is clear and clear: it is the maximum protection of the rights of the child. There has been a great deal of talk throughout the debate on the draft law in Parliament. Unfortunately, instead of dealing with the bill, what the bill can provide for and, possibly, shortcomings that may exist or some improvements needed, some people in the standing tactics have tried to encapsulate public opinion into stereotypes and puritanism, obviously looking for party benefits. I really want to ask those who have raised as a top issue the assumption of children from homosexual couples what they think best serves the interests of the child, the stay of a child in an institution, the stay of a child in a family with mom and dad who abuses or neglects the child, or the transfer of a child to a family of couples, where there may be love and care. I would therefore like to be quite clear and to say that the issue of equality and rights is not an ideological issue and cannot, of course, be subject to party lines. The acceptance of diversity, respect for the free choice are matters of values and principles of each of us, which, of course, also govern our other social behaviour. I therefore believe that not only the assumption but also the adoption cannot be made on the basis of criteria for the sexual orientation of candidates and foster parents. The Greek society must finally move forward, must leave stereotypes and puritanism, which cause much more problems, and must honestly see the huge problem with children in institutions. Hypocrisy, tacticalism and vulnerability must have limits and I think we have overcome them and the issue here is very serious. I therefore call on all the wings of Parliament - other than the extreme right - to vote in favour of the draft law and to help make it a good law, useful to society and, of course, in the interests of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Vanja. Mrs Lebanese has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to vote on a legislative initiative by the Government on the procedures, the institutions of adoption and acceptance. Today's bill we are debating primarily concerns human rights. Everyone's positions, whether or not they support the bill as a whole or part thereof, concern human rights, starting with children's rights and seeking limits or restrictions on the limits and validity of human rights. There are representatives of a part of the Greek people in the Greek Parliament who claim that rights do not concern the entire population. They like exceptions, whether sexual preferences, religious, racial, physical disabilities, women's sex, or whatever they see as different. It is no surprise that some cannot accept that in 2018 in this country all people are equal and not the same and that no discrimination is permitted at all for any reason. The surprise, however, is that there are representatives of parties defending ideas of democracy, freedom, equal opportunities for all and yet often adopt any attempts to limit the range of rights. In fact, that's not a surprise either. In the decades the same persons who appear as reformers, modernists, Europeanists and other imaginary self-classifications have not taken care of the self-evident. Ensure, for example, that the State, which also has the responsibility for welfare, is aware of the number of children awaiting adoption or assumption and at the same time the number of adults who wish to take up or take up a minor. It is still a real reality that only the sense of shame should bring about society as a whole and not just the enlightened preachers of order and morality. Today the government, in its attempt to establish the rule of law in Greece, promotes self-evident. It lays down the obligation to keep a record for both children to be adopted or assigned, as well as for candidate parents or contractors concerned. This list will include all children without exceptions, without discrimination, without a search for genealogical trees, religious beliefs, without discrimination on the choices of their parents, without seeking their national identity. The equivalent also applies to candidate guardians. At the same time, rules are laid down for the safety and development of the child. The appropriateness and readiness of someone to enter this process is not decided by the House, not decided by the parties, not decided by the religious communities. It's the scientific committee's decision. The Scientific Committee also supports psychologically both the child and adults for the transition to the new family environment, as well as for the smooth cohabitation and development of the child in the new environment. At the same time, the Government lays down the conditions for speeding up the process and for children not to remain in institutional structures for a long time. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Impressively it causes the fact that so far the number of children hosted in such structures is unknown. Therefore, there are unknown conditions in which they live and this is another shameful for all of us. Special attention is given to the bill for children with disabilities. This is a reasonable prediction, considering the social reality and the additional costs involved in caring for a disabled child. The state’s responsibility towards children who are de facto removed from their natural parents is great. It is a great responsibility for the relevant social services too. It's not about charity. It's not about charity. It is the duty of us to ensure that these children are properly integrated into society as a whole, that they are grown and offered to society in turn. We will not respond to this task if we adopt the theories of discrimination and the exceptions, which when they start, unfortunately do not end. If we today exclude some for sexual choice, what prevents us from exempting others for reasons of religion, colour, educational level, physical pattern or other distinctive situation? If we today accept discrimination in human rights, what prevents us from making tomorrow divisions of children's rights depending on the family from which they come, their particular characteristics and everything else that may not be in line with the'monetary truths' of some? If today we accept the hostility of someone against everything else, what will protect us from some time being viewed as ourselves hosts in our own society, because for some we will be different? The persecution of the different begins at the point where the social majority can be more easily accepted and is always extended without limits and without end. That's extremely dangerous. The protection of rights is not a card. There are no interpretations at hand. No exceptions. This applies to all rights of a modern society. This is the foundation stone and society and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mrs Lebanese. Mr. Bukouros has the floor. Immediately after that, the President of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis, will speak and the speech of the Prime Minister, as we have heard, will be followed. I'm just saying it about planning all colleagues, knowing that their speech will go backwards. Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but emphasise the great involvement of the SYRIZA Members in the debate on this bill, which is certainly not recorded in other bills of economic content, bills concerning other policies and the daily lives of Greek citizens. Nor can I just record the effort - particularly on the second day - to raise the tone on the majority Members' side. But this is not the case. The majority Members are struggling and struggling to deepen, on the basis of this bill, the dividing lines and to prove their left. But I said before - and I repeat it now - that this bill is not available. The first question is: Is the assumption of children - to go directly to the present article 8 - by homosexual couples in the adoption of children from the same sex couples? On the basis of the provisions of Article 8, clearly not. On the basis of your policy which, as your parliamentary representative has said, is slowly unfolding, we are likely to do so and prove it the recent past. With the cohabitation pact, there was the vertical refusal of the relevant ministers to go to children's assumptions and today we come to the assumption of children. The majority Members say 'This is your policy and policies are judged by society and are undoubtedly judged in elections'. We are all judged, ladies and gentlemen. But on such matters it is very easy to follow without thinking and thinking about the party line, it is easy to have a party line, but it is difficult to have an opinion and to follow your conscience. But the difficult road is always better and more productive, in my humble view. Many Members have said that we are talking about an assumption and not about adoption. We all know that. Adoption creates a legal link, assumption creates - we have heard it in this Chamber - a social and mental relation. Our legal system deals differently with adults and young people. I would like to ask the following question: why are we talking about children - is there more important than a legal link or a mental - social relation? My second view is that the mental and social bond is more important, because even today there are still mechanisms for socialisation and social control, where standards and stereotypes are well or poorly reproduced. Such mechanisms are school, family and others. We are now coming to legislate in a social environment which is largely contrary to this legislation. The survey of "internationalism" very well records the percentages of the opposition of the Greek people. They were 72% on the 2017 count, 79.6% on the 2018 count, that is, eight out of ten Greeks are against. I will also come to your opinion that we should also legislate on minority groups. Of course. The legislator - I would also tell you the leader - must open up streets and follow peoples. I don't disagree with that. But minority groups are not just the ones we have in mind. There are minority groups, that is, subsets of totals. And here this subset is the kid. I want to be absolutely honest. After the legislative improvements, the chances of taking on from a homosexual couple are very limited, because the legislative improvement that has been submitted and accepted sets a priority. But since you're interested in minority groups, I'll talk about one single child. I am not concerned with the incidents of domestic violence and abuse, because such incidents, ladies and gentlemen, are also recorded in the foundations and in all kinds of families and, unfortunately, will continue to be recorded in the future and that does not seem to concern us so much. I will only speak to you about one child in this case and how to deal with his future, namely by ageing, denialing or reacting to today's decisions. What do we have to tell him then? Should we return his childhood? Should we return his standards? Should we return his memories and life performances? That is why I am telling you that it is not an easy bill nor is it offered for political exploitation. This struggling effort by majority MPs to reap from such a bill of leftlessness will bring the opposite results, because the bill will surely go to the background to the public word and your policies will return - the catastrophic, in our view - which are affecting the Greek people every day and then have no value for these left-wing laurels. In order to modernise the legal framework for adoption, we can only welcome and support. Besides, Minister, it is largely a copy of the proposals of the draft law tabled by the New Democracy since July 2016. We have been delayed in modernising the legal framework for adoption, and this draft law does not touch the whole of the matter either. We need to run faster, we need to run better on this issue, because there are tens of thousands of homeless couples in the country, there are too many children and not only in institutions, but even in hospitals in recent years who have been calling for a family's loving embrace. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] For the reasons I have just mentioned, however, such as the reduction in social control time for adoptions, we are very clear in favour of these changes. We ask for more and better changes, and for the reasons I have also highlighted, for one child and for his future opposition and a refusal to what we are deciding today, we say 'no' to Article 8.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u58	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because it has been heard these days that the law copies the New Democracy bill, I would like to say directly that, firstly, a New Democracy bill has never been in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u60	Proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u61	There was a press conference where eight proposals for the assumption and adoption regime were presented. In these eight proposals nowhere you said that they would be implemented or under what procedures. Let this end too, because we have heard too much about 'the bill of New Democracy'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u62	Good. It was recorded in the Minutes. Please, Mr Leventis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u63	Good morning, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. In the last five days I see a dilemma entering the TVs, in the panels where a symbol and a right one are involved: 'Progress or maintenance', that the next elections will have the dilemma 'progress or maintenance'. I wonder what progress is and what maintenance is. When I first met Mr. Tsipras, I said to him: “Don’t pass bills with a hundred and fifty-three. Try to show a democrat. Try to show that you are adopting consensus, because by saying that you want simple analogue, but you want to vote for laws with a hundred and fifty-three, you show the whole opposite, that you are a dictator. He didn't listen to me. Nearly all the bills have been passed with a hundred and fifty three MPs. A number of bills, in fact, have not been passed by the government majority, but other parties came from the opposition and voted for and Mr Tsipras' partner did not vote. We also have this phenomenon, that is, with the government abrogated majority coming in at twelfth hour, so that the government won't fall. We have such phenomena too. Well, progress is not just to say you're progressive. I'll tell you something else. In recent times, you of SYRIZA have invited PASOK and told them "select who you're going with". But I'm sorry, didn't you two years ago say the PASOK went down, destroyed, appointed and bankrupt the country? You even invited people to come with you. Now you want with you and those who destroyed the country? You want them, too? I mean, there's a foolishness here. You call on the so-called "Switch Movement" to support you and say you don't want to go to the right, when you've dragged them the millions. You first took the votes and now you want them to. Then why didn't you go with them in the first place, since you like them and you want Petsalnicus, Giorgides Papandreou, Simitis? You all want them with you! If a possible post-election cooperation comes, won't they? There are no others. From what you saw, at the PASOK conference, the Senate was front and the others were "back violin". So you want them back after all, the ones you denounced. That's your progressiveity! Also, in many bills you say 'why do you not vote on some that are positive'? 'Don't vote on the others that are negative'. I don't understand that. What's that? This bill now has, he says, a positive one. But how are we supposed to force you to remove the negatives? By saying, 'no' to the whole. We have no other solution. Negotiations will do what is positive and what is negative? You haven't taken any notice of us when you were preparing the bill. I have never been called by the Minister to tell me "I'm going to get a bill, Mr. Leventis. Do you like that? Do you disagree with that?' You have brought it in and said, 'Let's vote on the positive'. No, gentlemen! We say 'no' to the whole. After you have not made any negotiation, you will also suffer the consequences. We are not a suckler in this Chamber to vote for the positive and you can hardly go through the negatives, ignoring what society wants. Mr Venizelos also came out and said that the Council of Europe and the European courts do not understand, he says, the will of the church. The Council of Europe cannot understand the views of the church. So the church's dark! The church is in 1,000 BC.- Oh, my God! The church is rooted out of society, in your opinion! Did you invite her to dialogue? I wonder, even she didn't have the reaction she had to have. To be honest, with approved theologians and Ayorites I spoke to, I was told "Do not vote on the whole of the law". That's what they asked me to do. However, the official Church of Greece has a strange attitude that I don't like, a silence attitude. I suppose they are the foundations and other economic complexes that make her silent. I don't like that. I wanted a church more fighting. We, from the time the church was completely ignored as a negotiating factor, cannot vote as a Union of Centres such as this. And if you're the progressives! Also, you've come out that all the others are scavengers. You've got the slogan. You're the progressives. The progressive ones are you who cut tax suits to everyone, you who even wanted to tax animals, dogs and kittens, you who taxed hotels, you who taxed mobile telephony, you who fined the Road Traffic Code and put them up, says, in the tax statement! The tax advisors have assumed to assess the fine of the KOK. Nice yards! You get it from everywhere! Twenty-three times pensions have been cut out in this place since 2009, and yet you have had the nerve to say that since August 2018, which the country has regained its self-reliance - against you acquires its self-reliance, in fact you know that we have been subordinate to ninety years with the signature and vote of all of you - you will restore the thirteenth pension. That's what a symbian said this morning on a channel. Listen to what they said now! That you'll permanently retire the thirteenth pension. After you ended up with the retired person, you promise him to return your thirteenth pension. Did you see? You are also merciful and merciful! You know what I'm afraid of? I said it in Thessaloniki in a speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u64	Did we abolish it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u65	Calm down, gentlemen. Calm down. When I hear you, even though I disagree with everything, I silence. Can't you be quiet? Calm down, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u66	Did we abolish it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u67	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u68	I can't hear you. I can't hear what you're saying. Most of you come in and you read papers. I speak from boobs. So I can't watch what each one of you is yelling at. Promise the thirteenth wage, bring the pension back, I don't know what you promise. I wonder: When you're on the streets, can you look him in the eye? Do you know what I'm afraid of? I fear that SYRIZA will become an anti-European anti-European rebellion again, that, in other words, the moment will come when you start to swear Europe again, you will start again to say, 'If they do not want to allow us to do this, we are taking distances'. You will say what you were saying first, that you are tearing up memos, that Europe will be afraid of you, of these various insanity that you have been using. That is what I think they will return to Greece and you will be threatening to Europe again. And that will now be absolute ridiculousness! A party that was calling Europe, which then signed it all, and then starts to swear Europe again to make it good for the citizens. For Skopje, I'm afraid, because the American embassy feels pressured...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u69	Please be quiet so we can hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u70	Why would they be quiet? Can't you see, Mr. President, what's going on? If you mock their ears, they're quiet. When you tell them five things, they go crazy. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u71	They're problematic, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u72	Are yelling problematic? For the Skopje, you know we had a gathering in Thessaloniki. At this meeting it was decided to be unresolved until the end of the day. If you give the name Macedonia to Skopje, there will be a second Turkish state to our north. The view of the Americans is, "Hurry to give them the name, because Turkey will shove its nose in Skopje". If we hurry and give it to them, we will have a second Turkish state in our north. I'm giving that warning. I would also like to mention a debate that I had with the city's leading academics and actors. I said to them: why don't you talk about the Macedonian at all? We were there an hour and nobody said anything about the name of Skopje. He tells me: "We are hurt, Mr. Leventis, and we have made a deal with ourselves not to talk. The parties are not treating us well, they are all ready to give the word. We feel hurt, but if we have to go back to the streets. The fact that we are not talking does not mean that we have accepted anything. We are irresponsible and hurt, Mr President." Don't forget that, because I see you guys forget it! If this House votes, the same night the guilt will accompany each of you and the blow will be heavy. It will be very similar to what the Right had done with Cyprus, which made the Zurich and London agreements and put the Turkish guarantor in Cyprus and came old Karamanlis and published in all the newspapers that the Cyprus issue was solved. And George Papandreou came out here in this Chamber and said, "Now the tragedy begins." Don't do it. There will be a second Turkish state. I have spoken about equipment, and I said: Shipowners, expatriates, to have a campaign to buy some planes and some freshmen for the Armed Forces and the MPs to pay three wages. That's what I suggested. And I said that if from all this campaign the amount is even greater and those who have more than a thousand euros pension, give two more hundred. And there's some people out there to tear me apart that I'm suggesting we cut off pensions. But you cut the pensions twenty-three times and the troika ate them. Sorry, don't you hurt the country's defense? I will tell you an experience of my visit to Turkey a year ago. I was in Taksim Square and I saw a mess of people - others up, others down, various colors, different races - and I felt that this neighbouring state still has the brutal instincts in it. I'm sorry to say that. We must be careful whether it is time to confront ourselves, because if we look unscrupulously, many will go to prison from abandoning the country's defence. You have in mind the people, who do not now want to cut two hundred, the same people, when they suffer a national shame, will have another view. Simitis in the morning of the Imale in this Chamber said, "He who dares to approve integrity will meet the Greek army," and at night he downed the Greek flag. And then it took five days to get out of his house in Anagnastopoulou. Five days didn't get out of his house with what they did in Ocalan and all they did. We are now giving the two soldiers a double salary - Mr Kammenos - to sit in prison. While we first said we would get them out, now we will pay double wages to satisfy the family. Families are not satisfied with giving a double salary. The crime was made by the Chief of GNS and Evros' leaders, who were sending two ghosts and Turkey seven while Erdogan threatened at the same time. A little mind didn't an executive have to understand that the patrol must have seven, ten people and not two, why the prey was ready in Erdogan's hands? Now we're begging. Mitsotakis runs in Europe, he says and begs. The Patriarch went and spoke to Erdogan, but in the forty-five minutes he couldn't get into a military matter. Listen to what they said! They said that the Patriarch went and spoke forty-five minutes with Erdogan and did not find the time to talk about the two Greek citizens who are in prison. It's an honor to give up one of the SGP doesn't exist. They don't recognize the mistake. No mistake. Gentlemen are infallible! Prepare, as canals say, to bring the simple analogy. If the simple analogue has no zero bonus, the Centro Association will not vote for it. If you shorten the bonuses and from fifty you take them to thirty to thank the PASOK, we won't just vote proportionally. For us, the simple analogue is the one I once discussed with Tsipras. If Tsipras retreats to get partners of those who were purging until yesterday, the Centron Union will not participate. Vote on your own simple analogue. I do not understand the break-up of the regions. Breaking the regions to what helps? There is, he says, corruption in the big regions. So, the congressman who's in the Carpenesian District, and he's one, can't steal? I'm sorry, but if he's getting it, he's stealing in any quarter of the country. It doesn't matter the periphery. What's that got to do with it? Besides, five SYRIZA channels and five of the New Democracy are appearing. Another issue with the channels. The Pope said he'd fix the channels, and now you've simulated a two-partyism. One of New Democracy, one of SYRIZA, and now and then one of PASOK's. This is Mr. Pappa's democracy. You said you were going to kick the pimps. Someone's gone? Anyway. I'm sorry about the developments in this Chamber. The people will punish both New Democracy and SYRIZA. Don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Leventis. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I am interpreting the feelings of Members present and present if I say that the Greek Parliament today honors the anniversary of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples in Europe at the end of World War II. We are also honouring the memory of our colleague, George Tsarouhas, who on the same day, during the dictatorship, with torture, found a terrible end. It is a two-year anniversary, like so many other anniversarys within May, which, however, add a flagrant and historic charge to these days. Please, we honor both events. Thank you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mrs Theanos Fotio, presents the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 154]] Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative initiative, which we will be asked to vote on shortly and discuss in plenary yesterday and today, is of special importance. And that's why I asked to take the floor today. I feel that the public debate on this bill has focused - in my opinion - only one article in the bill. I do not think it is insignificant, but I think the big issue today is the state attitude towards children who are deprived of the opportunity to live a normal life and grow up in institutions, children who, unfortunately, in the eyes of the state until now were almost invisible, would say to children of a lower god who are deprived of the opportunity to live and mature in a home, in a family. These children, then, are what we need to have in mind today. And the reason for this bill - and of course it has been a very substantial study and work until this bill has been drawn up - was to finally stop this orgy of bureaucracy and of the ten institutional obstacles, so that it can be given an opportunity, an opportunity to experience these children a better future and not to lose forever what they have unjustly lost, a home, a family, especially when we know very well that for every child who is deprived of them, there are, at the same time, many people who are willing to offer them, people who have decided to change their lives and to offer their love, either as contractors or as foster parents. I invite you to ask yourself this: why is this so difficult to date? Why is it so difficult for both sides to be together? Why should bureaucracy and institutional gaps become an obstacle, often inaccessible, among them? I believe that these very questions come today to answer this bill. And in that sense, I think it is an institutional aspect, in that sense, I think it is very important that this bill should be dealt with without any micro-participatory purposes. They do not fit - I believe - into these micro-participatory issues. What feasibility can it encourage some to say ‘no’ in an attempt to cut off for the benefit of children lacking love and care? And what feasibility is it that could encourage some to say 'yes' to perpetuate a regime that prevents thousands of young or older couples from offering a love child? So what's coming to solve this bill? The first thing to solve is that children who are in institutions are finally ceasing to be invisible from the state. No state or any coordinate state can allow these souls to be treated as the potential heirs of society. This indifference cannot continue, for example, that understoods their future. It is regrettable today that we are unable as a state to know the exact number of those children who are hosted in institutions. That is the bitter truth and we have to face it at some point. The first thing, then, is that we are creating an electronic file with each child's figures individually, so that we know how much they are and who these children are looking for a family, so that we can deal with the issue together, having one self-evident, I think, in the long term: no child in the margin, no child in an institution. Through this recording process, which will start in the next few months, the assumption or adoption process will be facilitated, which will have as a prerequisite the existence of an electronic file for each child. In addition, this electronic file also ensures something more important. That when the child is grown up, it will be possible, if he wishes, to look at these elements and seek out his roots so that the human dramas that we know have been presented in such cases in the past with people in vain search of their roots and natural parents can be avoided. The second big question we are discussing - if the first issue concerns children - concerns candidate parents. That is to say, the people who have been forced to wait for a long period of time, which in some cases is up to six years until the procedures are in progress. In other words, people who want to offer love and who find a child who may not have gone to school yet and until the process is completed, this child is in high school. That's the reality that hundreds of couples live around us today. So we move on to a series of arrangements so that this painful and psycho-corruption wait can be reduced. Accelerate the procedures. The assumption will now have a maximum period of eight to twelve months, instead of for years, as was the case until now. Similarly, the adoption of eight to twelve months will be pending only for which there will be concern and coordination with the Ministry of Justice, so that the whole process can be defined as a priority. So we are turning a case that today is a disaster of several years for hundreds, perhaps thousands of couples, into a case that can be handled successfully in just one year. So it will stop this torture for both the prospective parents and the children. And that, in the end, seems to me to be a very important contribution towards our fellow humans. It is a human debt on our part, on the part of the state, toward our fellow humans who want to do our most human beings, to offer and take love. On this point, I would like to refer to the issue that has caused a lot of confusion in the public debate, either because of ignorance or also because of purposes. First of all, I would like to refer to the confusion surrounding the distinction between assumption and adoption. Some people wrongly identify adoption. This is a procedure which is finally adopted by a court. with the assumption. The assumption provides that the child has the opportunity to return to his natural parents, who, in addition, should have contact with him during the assumption. I would say - I think without exaggeration - that taking as an act is a model of altruism, solidarity and offering for those who choose it. Because they only choose to give a child without getting rights on it. And it is concluded through a notarial act, after the procedures provided for have been carried out. So what does this bill do, in addition to the time-conspiracy that I spoke about a moment ago? It makes the framework for the suitability of parent or foster parents for each case, through a specific, unequivocal and scientifically justified procedure, in which candidate parents, inter alia, are controlled and subject to parentality courses. And this whole process will be supervised and coordinated by the National Council for Admission and Adoption, which will be subject to the Ministry of Labour. This is the essence of this bill, to make it easier for fellow humans to give love to children who are deprived of it. And, of course, give priority to the need for these children to find a family and to grow under the best possible conditions for them in an environment of love and care. Now, why all these days, all these weeks, we are not talking in the public sphere about the substance of the bill, which I believe is a great social section and we are talking about a detail of it, which concerns the sexual orientation of the prospective parents, is a question that I will try to answer. A portion of our fellow Members and also political forces in this Chamber do this because they like to reproduce stereotypes and horrendous synonyms, anachronistic in many. Another portion does it because what feeds it is not love, but hatred for the fellowman, hatred for the stranger, hatred for the other religion, hatred for the one who is different and has other ideas than ours. Even supposed love for the homeland is a false manipulated and mocked, because love for your country can't support her in the hate of each other's homeland. Therefore, a portion of the reactions come from those who hate them and feed them from them, and so either they are allergic or cannot understand a law that deals with facilitating fellow humans who want to offer love. But there is another charge, as I said before, which reproduces hypocrisy, I would say, horrendously complex and stereotypes, in the name of a religion that is structured on the axis of love towards the fellowman. That's why hypocrisy. But I won't stand on all this. I will only say that our state and therefore we parliamentarians who are legislating are obliged by the Constitution to treat our people on an equal footing. At the same time, the state is obliged to ensure conditions for children to find themselves in the best possible environment of love and care, and these conditions are related to a number of things, but, of course, the sexual orientation of prospective parents cannot be found. In Greece of 2018, ladies and gentlemen, the values of the right speech, equality and progress, I believe that it is and will be, must be and should all of us contribute to being, above stereotypes and fearful partners. And as far as we are concerned as the government of this place, we will be entirely consistent with that. I followed the public debate, but also the parties' official positions. I am sorry to say this, but Mr Mitsotakis' New Democracy may, if he wants to give us another lesson, be her right - because that is what it does - for who is truly populist and only accounts for political costs and who is true, in practice and not in words, liberal, not with the economic dimension of the term, but with sociality. It can give us a lesson about who is really progressive and what conservative saying about something that goes without saying: 'But society has not matured to vote'. It is the right of Mr. Mitsotakis and the New Democracy to do this. I just want to say one thing. He's not in the Chamber. It will be brought to him by colleagues in his resignation. We thank him for that, because it makes things clearer to some who thought he was a so-called politician of the liberal centre. In fact, he is deeply conservative and often flirts with anachronistic ideas, but he flirts dangerously with extreme right-wing populism in every substantial step that this government has taken on matters relating to individual rights. We will, for our part, continue to walk on the basis of our principles, many times ignoring the political costs that create and reproduce mass media and stereotypes, as we have done, in a series of legislative initiatives, from the law on citizenship, once again looking at the thousands of children born here and deprived until the vote on the minimum rights, such as the right to enjoy Greek education equally, until the agreement on coexistence is extended to the couples and the legal guarantee of gender identity. We will continue to be consistent in our efforts to serve the principles of progress, equality and justice in this area at all levels, because these principles form the foundations of Greece that we see, of Greece of the new era built again day after day through the ruins left behind by an unprecedented economic crisis, but a Greece which we envision Greece of progress and justice in a society of solidarity and human dignity. That's what we're doing. That's what we're trying to do. That's why we're fighting and nobody's gonna stop us at this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. Before Mrs Ahtsoglou could speak, the Deputy Minister, Mrs Fotiou, has the floor for legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. First, at the end of the second subparagraph of paragraph (e) of Article 8, a sentence shall be added as follows: Secondly, paragraph 1 of Article 9 shall be deleted and the following indents shall be renumbered accordingly. Thirdly, at the end of the first subparagraph of Article 11(2), the words ‘without prejudice to the second subparagraph of paragraph (e) of Article 8’ shall be added. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the high school of Lefnimis Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill proposed by the Ministry of Labour and call on you to vote today is a bill - a section in the area of social solidarity and in the policy of protecting the child. This bill complements the overall policy implemented by this government on social solidarity, the protection of the child, and the expansion and expansion of individual rights and freedoms. It is a bill serving the extremely critical area of social solidarity and this area is extremely critical, because when this government took up its work in early 2015 it took over in a generalised humanitarian crisis situation for the Greek society. This was the result of both the fundamental policies and the austerity policies implemented in the years of the crisis, but also of the lack of structures of a social state, which traditionally evolved from this place and the period of growth. Then we received the welfare budget - for us now, social solidarity - at 750 million and today the budget for social solidarity exceeds 1.8 billion. In the circumstances, that is, a budgetary committee, we have more than doubled the resources spent on strengthening our weakest citizens and protecting the child. With the first law that we brought to Parliament in early 2015, the humanitarian crisis law, we established a grid of measures to cover our pressing needs of four hundred thousand citizens. We granted prepaid cards for first-time items, free electricity, rent benefits, etc. This intervention was not temporary, but it has evolved into a programme of enormous social relief, the social income of solidarity which today receives more than six hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. At the same time, we organised a grid of interventions to protect the child. We extended the institution of free access to nurseries. Today, more than 100 thousand children have free access to nurseries and will further widen this measure. We have already anticipated the relevant resources in the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework by 2022. We have established and expanded the institution of school meals, which today has been extended to more than a hundred twenty - thousands of students in primary schools throughout the country. Let me remind you that this is an institution that we were accused of turning meals into piles. We have also reshaped family allowances, strengthening their budget by an additional 260 million. In other words, we increased the amount paid to families as a family allowance by about 40%. At the same time, we have elected the family allowances system so that families with the lowest incomes can be given more support, on the one hand, families with one and two children. You see, in other words, how we have developed an overall framework for protecting the child through policies, which we have established and constantly expanded with their budgetary support. Today we are taking another important step towards protecting the child. The issue of adoption in our country has always been a black page, as in the way it was shaped, we had endless waiting times for candidate parents and at the same time thousands of children remained in institutions. Today, it ends this regime of social grief, aiming for no child to stay in an institution anymore. This bill also constitutes a cut-off, because it radically changes the institutional framework for assumption and adoption. We intervene on two main axes: The first axis is the reduction of the waiting time. A couple will now be able to adopt a child or become a parent donor at most in eight to twelve months, instead of six years until today. The second and most important axis is the institutional and scientific shield of the whole process. Records shall be established for minors and approved candidates or foster parents. The National Register of minors is now mandatory for all children who live in protection units and who have been poorly recorded so far and have often been precisely this poor record, which lacked the ability of these children to grow up in a healthy family environment. At the same time, the National Register of Candidate Parents is being established, in which with absolute transparency parents will be registered, who fulfil all the conditions to take care of a child. These, together with the introduction of the institution of social research and of the social report, which will be drafted by certified social workers, significantly reduce the waiting time and eventually form the way for two desires: the desire of these thousands of children who are in institutions to go to a family and the desire of all these parents and adult people to become fosterers or fosterers. And let me also refer to the issue that seems to have been more concerned with the public debate. I think she was badly concerned with this area and denied the possibility of discussing the real innovative elements that this bill has, which are no other than the question of the possibility of taking children from homosexual couples, who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. I think it has been understood since the explanations and clarifications given in this Chamber that this is only about the institution of assumption and not about the institution of adoption. The reason for not adopting is that in our Civil Code only couples who have entered into a marriage can proceed with adoption. The institution of assumption is a different institution - in my opinion - of maximum social solidarity, it is a institution of enormous social importance and indeed proof of the greatness of human love, because it is not linked to any property, with no placement of the parent, the candidate, that is to say, the parent's position and the full substitution of the rights and obligations of a parent. It is indeed an act of maximum social solidarity. This draft law, therefore, provides that the assumption can be made by persons who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. It is therefore reasonable that anyone who has concluded a cohabitation agreement, who is entitled to conclude a cohabitation agreement, will be able to become foster parents. It would be contrary both to the Greek Constitution and to European law any discrimination was between those who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. It would be completely unconstitutional and totally against Union law to predict that we distinguish couples, who have concluded a cohabitation agreement with homosexuals and heterosexuals, and that we only give one group the right. The real question, therefore, is whether we would be deprived of all couples who have entered into a cohabitation agreement, together, the possibility of becoming foster parents. Only in this way can the question really be raised. And here we are wondering: Is it really reasonable, when thousands of children are in institutions, to deprive these children of a huge pool of prospective parents? Obviously, this would be completely absurd and our answer is that it would be unacceptable. That is the legal dimension of the matter. But beyond the legal dimension of the issue, there is also the political dimension of the issue, which, in my opinion, is also the most important. We have said many times that it is a strategic choice for this government to extend individual rights and freedoms, as well as for the removal of discrimination against parts of the population. And that is something we have proved in a variety of ways throughout our term of office. That is what we did with the gender identity law, that is what we did with the introduction of the cohabitation agreement and for the homosexual couples, that is what we did with the yielding of citizenship to the children of migrants. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Give me some more time, Mr President. Apart from the objective of safe exiting the country from the comitology programmes, our objective is to implement interventions to extend individual rights, because you know that a government that actss with a specific target of the social majority cannot legislate on the basis of anachronistic perceptions and conservative stereotypes. A government in Greece of the 21st century must legislate on this very footstep, and that is the term for collective progress in this society. If we were to let fans of the so-called natural evolution of things define the laws and institutions in this place, then, ladies and gentlemen, neither I nor Mrs Fotio nor many other women Members here, in this Chamber, could be present in this Chamber. We couldn't talk from these benches. If we let the fans of natural evolution dominate, then our fellow citizens with a different sexual orientation would probably be in security detentions and domestic violence might be considered as some kind of normality, a tradition that lasts from the previous centuries. So let us stand firmly with progress and equality at all levels. And we know well that despite the strong resistance of some retrograde circles, dreaming of a Greece in the 1960s or 1970s, Greek society is receptive to changes that stimulate the removal of discrimination between its members. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole policy that we are implementing both in the area of social solidarity - I mentioned very briefly our flagship actions - but also in the area of work, strengthening the protection of work, strengthening the workers' negotiating position, and our policy on extending individual rights and freedoms only have one objective and one nuclear element. This nuclear element is the reduction of social inequalities. This is the core of our entire employment policy, of social solidarity, of protecting the most vulnerable groups, of extending individual rights and freedoms. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] These initiatives are implemented in the context of the financial adjustment programme. We are not expecting the way out of the programme to proceed with these interventions, and it is precisely this dividing line from the Skills, which at all times makes sure that the President-in-Office highlights precisely this dividing line. Once again, we heard Mr Mitsotakis, the social inequality fan, yesterday present for the future of work. The eighth is overdue, stable work is outdated, flexibility is the only way out for the next day's work. And, of course, to add to them that collective labour agreements are an ideal for the Left. Remind the New Democracy Department of Labour that it will be hypocritically mourning the relationship between full-time and part-time work next time. Once again, once again, in its political analysis of work, the Acoustic Opposition is matched by the most extreme cycles of lenders and, above all, the International Monetary Fund with positions that even the most neoliberal analysis begins to leave. Some time ago the OECD in the report, published on the work in Greece, said that it was extremely important for sectoral collective agreements in the country and should definitely come into force. Even the OECD reviews its approaches to work and Mr Mitsotakis insists on the deregulation line. And you know the problem is not to be identified with the most extreme circles of lenders while the government is negotiating for the benefit of the social majority. The problem is that at the heart of your analysis, in your value approach, place the enlargement and the reproduction of social inequalities. This is the policy implemented during the crisis. That is the policy you have implemented in the period of growth. This is the policy based on your worthy core. And with this worthy approach, it separates us from abyss. Our direction is to strengthen the vulnerable layers of society, the up to yesterday's invisible ones, their exit from social exclusion, from marginalisation. Our direction is to strengthen work, strengthen workers' negotiating positions, combat undeclared work, break fear in workplaces. Our approach is to extend the income available to workers. Our direction is to extend individual rights and to remove discrimination. That is the essence of our policy, because in our worthy core the objective of reducing social inequalities is always founded. That is where we are looking, we are working both within the committee period and after leaving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pafilis, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC will now take the floor. There are still seven Members left and we have said that the sitting will be closed at 14.00 p.m. I would ask both Mr Palheiy and the rest of us to limit the time. Mr. Paphie, if you can, ten minutes. The rest of us at five minutes, so that we can finish the meeting in a timely manner. Even the Prime Minister made us an economy of time. He spoke eighteen minutes instead of twenty. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u80	One can only be tempted to answer. He says the Prime Minister says that 'we build the society of justice and solidarity'. This is more than a joke. What solidarity society? With the 10% of the Greek population holding 70% of Greek GDP? What solidarity society, when you are fighting - together with the previous ones, continue on the same line - the workers, the wealth-generating ones, and when you scandalously amplify the engine of the economy you think are the monopolies and the business groups?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u81	I'm sorry, Mr. Paphie. Ladies and gentlemen, please, a little respect. You sound too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u82	It's all right, Mr. President. Let them worry! Are you building a society of solidarity and justice, serving the step by step of capitalist barbarism, and at a very fast pace? Really, what solidarity and justice society, when you advertise to businessmen that Greece has cheap labour and employment relations and you tell them "will you make profits"? Is this a society of solidarity? In fact, the Minister for Labour has also taken a 'happiness'. In fact, Mrs Ahtsoglu, the eighth hour, which the New Democracy thinks is, of course, poorly overtaken, you have not given up? Work relationships, flexible working relationships, do you not apply them everywhere? Have you changed anything? Have you abolished anything? We live in another world? The work jungle, don't you literally apply it? You haven't taken any new measures in the past few years? Who are you telling? And that makes sense, because in the end you and New Democracy and PASOK, and all those who defend the capitalist system, especially the European Union, are drinking water. So this is not what the Greek people do to use the romance expression. It lives every day what the society of justice is and sees it, not only here, but throughout the capitalist world. What justice? 1% of the world's population, 90% of the world's GDP. This policy is served, regardless of the intentions and regardless of the crumbs, that may be given to soften the deep wounds. Society of justice and solidarity, with the law of profit, with capitalism dominating, historically never happened. And that's the damage you do to the world, that you make him feel that there can be human capitalism. A system based on man’s exploitation is barbaric in advance and it is either overthrown or overthrown or incorporated and you serve it, and sometimes better than others. Now, let's move on to the bill, 'cause I don't want to make any more comments. Of course, there is no one, either political or social, who does not show up, who does not understand the need to protect children outside the family, we also say within the family. Sensitivity is not questioned, nor will there be psychological analysis of who is more sensitive. But where political forces and parties are judged are, firstly, to what causes they recognise these problems, and secondly what strategy they take to deal with them. What's going on here? Apart from a few secondary analyses by all the speakers, that makes sense. What's being projected? We erase the causes and intervene, he says, to the result. This is a modern concept that has been projected for many years. That's the reality. What can we do? That's her. So let's see the result. Will you tell us: 'Do you disagree with the result and take some measures'? No, of course not. First, we are fighting, even some reliefs being given to the people and especially to children who experience capitalist barbarism in her majesty, because there are other aspects even worse. So what we are saying, and so we need to talk, because in the end, it is not a question of closing down in all the downfalls and in all times the word sensitivity and the situation that exists with regard to children as a whole and society as a whole. The point is to see each other's attitude. Who's to blame, really? Who is to blame for the fact that in 2018 these appalling things are happening that are described by everyone? Let's say it's our fault. It is the sepsis of the capitalist system, a barbaric system that, beyond economic terms, proliferates pathogens within families. Are there huge problems in children: drug addiction, mental illness? Do they have an effect on these and what standards does this system cultivate? What standards do all the productions that are projected from everywhere? What is the dominant ideology? Individualism, competition, "cut your neck, I'll do what I want" plus rot, which is being projected as modern. On these issues of the system rot, which everyone sees, no matter if some people do not understand, will you say a word? Nobody said anything. Nobody. The opposite happens. There are hymns as far as the United States of America. There is no worse situation in all areas in the realm of capitalism, which is the United States of America. What do you want? Criminality? They're killing the kids. What's going on with the families? The prisons don't fit anymore. They make private prisons. How much and how much! Are you using them as arguments? Or is it a civilized and developed Europe? But don't you see what's going on? I do not want to say examples of what is happening and what is being officially promoted. So, owl for that, then. And not only is there not a talk, but it is cultivated and delusional, and it is very clear here that we are an exception, while in other countries this problem has been solved. What has been solved and where has it been solved? Don't open up any more topics on Vatican and say a lot of other things. Don't tell us about divisions and conflicts. When the JRC came out and said "vote to women", the entire Greek society fell on it. When he said the separation of the Church - State, the same. Really, why don't you do that? Why don't you do that? Nothing. Kuveda for segregation of the Church - State. There is no talk of a lot of other things that are urban in the final analysis, but they have a cost. So what do you think? That you can create a human environment in this inhumane system that works, which will solve the problem of children. Second theme: Wars. How will the political forces be judged? From how the orphans will treat only? Of course, it's a criterion. We don't underestimate it. When you participate in all as a country. Where didn't Greece participate? I am also talking about the previous ones and the present ones. Yugoslavia: everything they asked for. Afghanistan: The same Greek forces in Afghanistan. Iran: The same. Libya: The same. Syria: The same, political. When you go out and approve the attacks in Syria, when you get the Ambassador of Syria out of Greece and then complain about the refugees and the refugees coming here. Really, isn't that hypocritical? So, what's that? Third matter. We want to solve a problem. Of course, we do not dispute that some modernisations have taken place in the course of the process. Previously, some modernizations are taking place. What is the direction of the European Union for welfare and, in general, the social sector? Don't tell us the opposite. The direction is 'do we minimise all social costs throughout the European Union', yes or no? Huh? Oh, no! Get me the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u83	Are we doing this? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u84	We reduce all social costs. Costs are judged on the basis of many things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u85	Are we doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u86	Of course you do. How can you not do it? If you want, get the evidence to see. What do you want me to say? Shall we begin to say the millions and billions how they have been cut all these years? So are we reducing these in the social sector for what? For two reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u87	Madam Colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u88	It's all right, George. Dialogue is good! We accept him. It's for us. What for? The first reason is to save money in the state budget. The second reason, when compared with the first, is to open up the space for 'private' - in introductory terms the word - for initiative to enter and trade in human suffering. Isn't that what they do? Well, don't you see in the health field what's going on? Where do you live? How many billions are spent? How much do the different business groups earn? It was a coincidence that the bank reports in 2009 and 2010 - we have them in our hands -'say investment' - to entrepreneurs, of course - 'in the health sector, why are you going to gain'? Who pays all this? The Greek people pay double. He also pays them through the insurance funds, which go because they cannot cover the public and pay them from his pocket, because there is always more to it. That's everywhere! Is there not such a line in all European countries, particularly in such sensitive areas? Objectively, the road opens, whether you say it or not, for privatization, like the others, with its peculiarity, because it concerns such a matter. For example, we have, I think, a thousand private institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Paphie, please help us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I have 12 minutes and I do not make any concessions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u91	However, after the President's decision, we said that time would be shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u92	You should have called her in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u93	It's not from the beginning. It was a development. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u94	It can't be done. So it is precisely in this direction that the government is moving and putting a dilemma in our view. In fact, not only does the government put it, but other powers too. What he says is covered in the 'dismantling'. The question is ‘institution or family’. Firstly, I imagine that questions are not generally asked. We call 'the institution' - you call it 'institution' - we are talking about'social structures' - and what family'. You can't answer it completely. This disinfection covers other things. I think, of course, that we will agree here. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis So what do we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Paphie, we're already in the thirteen minutes. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u96	Is the issue of child protection individual or social security a matter? We say it's a social affair. That doesn't mean you're blocking the family. On the contrary. We say that the state takes services with public structures, with an overall economic and social framework for all children. And I say everything, that is, what is outside the family and what is inside the family, because there are children who live in founding situations, as you say, in the family because of economics and possibly other conditions. Let me not make it redundant. So in that direction, move. And, to talk more practically, what is the problem? There's an effort going on with bureaucracy and so on, we're not negative to them, or we're dealing with such details, or we're gypsies in stuff like that. I hope there will be some and move on. We said it here, our comrades and everyone said it. In fact, some children won't go into assumption or childbirth, but they won't get over it. I'm just saying that. What's gonna happen? Where are they going?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Paphie, you're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u98	Yeah, but let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u99	Yeah, but you've reached fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u100	Why fourteen? I have my dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u101	But we don't have secondarys. No one's going to answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u102	And what do we do now? You've decided that lately. Do you mind or what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u103	We don't mind what you're saying, Mr. Paphie. If ever possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u104	What's the recipe? You finance professionals and individuals in order to get them by some who today may be social workers, but tomorrow they may develop differently. So what do we say? The social structures that exist today and which are in a terrible state, why do you not strengthen them? What will become of children who either stay out or return from bad assumption or bad adoption? Aren't they going through these social structures? Why don't you hire her? Why don't you make modern buildings? Why? Why? Why? Because they are banned as a whole. And what we say about social exclusion...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Paphie, please help us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u106	I'll talk two more minutes and I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u107	Not two minutes. Please. I'll give you a few more seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u108	All right, I'll finish. What you say is that the government refuses any social exclusion, we need to see it in practice. Thousands of children are out of preschool treatment. Thousands of HEIs are located outside units and other social infrastructures. Thousands of sublethal couples pay 30 million euros a year for artificial fertilization. Will you do anything about it? There are thousands of young people excluded, etc. Finally, Mr President - and thank you very much - because today is May 9, anti-fascist victory day and not Europe as you have agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u109	That's how you should start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u110	We say: it inspires people to have confidence in their power and to come to the fore. Because you said much, to tell you that the great Soviet Union, coming out of World War I with seven million children, succeeded in those conditions, with such difficulties, in integrating them and not dying on the road. And after World War II he succeeded even more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Palphie, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u112	The socialist countries with the weaknesses, with the problems that exist, by opening new paths in history have achieved miracles, which socialism can never imagine in the area of children, the protection of education, health and much more, far more today as there are other material conditions, just as long as the people decide to go on this road.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Thebes, you have the floor. I hope you're as concise as possible and, if you can, limit yourself to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Our issue today should be children, who deserve to grow in safety and love in conditions that only the family environment can provide. I want to tell you that almost everything has been said. I want to speak a little experientially in relation to this bill. I visited in Thebes recently as a member of the county the women's Eleaea prisons. There, as we all know, at the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, there are "fruits" in a particular guarded area. There a isovita tells me: Mr. MEP, after three years, what will happen to this child? Give me the right to see it, even in prison, sometimes. It's a message. Today's bill really comes to give an answer, to give the human dimension, but also the essential one. I want to stand on another matter. It was heard by several speakers of the New Democracy, and not only in relation to Article 8: "The children who are the contractors are a homogeneous couple, when they go to school, will be faced with problems". I'm sorry, but this position, apart from dogmatic, unscientific, actually loses reality. Teachers are underestimating today in schools. What are they gonna do? What teachers do - and I speak as an educator right now in secondary education - when a obese kid comes into bowling. What they're gonna do, when he's picking up a girl from an orphanage who wears the skirt to the ankle. What are they gonna do? They'll do whatever it takes for a new teenager who loves ballet. Teachers in their overwhelming majority know and manage as teachers, as human beings, as collectives these problems. A lot of people today say that it's data on a few things. What is a given today really? That the majority, if you like, disagrees with Article 8? Is that the data? Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know what happened in 1983 when the political marriage was implemented. What happened with the rallyings for the unregistered “Christian Orthodox” in identity. I'm going back to the old days. I don't want to come to the newest. Society's on its way. There's no data. I want to tell you something else. Human rights are not won by referendums, as some claim. And I want to tell you something else. In the public debate, we are all talking about the uniqueness of man, and first of all the Church, and rightly so. Only in practice by a lot of people, uniqueness is lost, and it's not because someone can't be like us. Because uniqueness becomes a la carte, if you are not a Christian Orthodox, if you do not believe in "father, religion, family", if you determine yourself in a different way. So this reality does not create data. Data is what? That for today's bill we are discussing, the ones who will proceed to childbirth, the ones who will proceed to take assumption are young people, mainly. And we just have a huge responsibility towards these new couples, these young people on how to move forward. And I think that's where our responsibility lies. I do not really know whether this bill has the consensus today of the majority of the Greek people or not. For one thing, however, I am sure that after some years of implementation, thousands of new couples and children will have a good reason to say about this important decision of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Thebeau. Mr. Emmanuelides has the floor. Try as long as you can contain it, so we can make it. We should already have proceeded with the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 'who can't get away from me?' It was a torture question that led Oedipus all his life. Who gave birth to me? It is this timely question that has passed through the minds of all of us. Response to this gives the bill with the triple identification grid. Why? Because the man who lives in the darkness of the past, when he does not know his previous steps, is walking in the illusion of the present and future. And that alone, I think it gives a print of social sensitivity and responds to a timeless, torture request. But that's not all. Children's protection institutes began a long time ago. Kapodistrias in 1829 builds and founds in Aegina the first orphanage to treat the orphans of the revolution. Many years later, through the power and horror of the Civil War, a chain of orphanages are being set up to meet the needs of the orphans, who left this carpet in the civil war. There was only one basic difference, that the latter stood on targeted intentions, to withdraw the practice, the logic of the prevailing view, and was based on Frederick, who shortened her name to become the horror of orphanages. The horror of why? There was a arrangement that was escalating from the humanitarian authorities, from humanitarian values. Then came the time of the economic spring of society and always the rural governments were buying this issue and left all this social deficit and on the side of the couples, who could not give birth, but also on the part of the children who were stacking on the foundations, to enter into the logic of the transaction. We all know how and under what conditions this sale of human beings was made. "You're late" says the Qualified Opposition. But, is it possible within three years to bring this bill and give us a resignation for the delay you forty years have completely ignored this matter? These are samples of writing on each of them. And the noteworthy thing is that the Minister itself says "yes, we are late" because she is aware of this social and historical responsibility, which as a competent Minister, when the audacity is abundant and we are indulging for the forty years of your hooliganism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, it was aimed at shifting the reflection and the centre of weight of this two-day analysis. Relocated to Article 8. I will accept for the economy that you did well and you did it there, and I will not go into the analyses that have been heard from anyone. But I will say just one thing: Pericles to the Epitaph says to him that "we honor all laws, but above all we honor those laws that are for the benefit of the wrongdoers." These are to settle the thought of all and finally go to the beginning of a new reality free of all the stereotypes that brought this misdemeanour to society and we pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. Mrs. Stuboulis has the floor for five minutes. Here comes Mr. Papas, Mr. Kyriazidis, Mr. Hadjisavvas and Mr. Barkas last.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after so many hours of meeting I do not think there is anything left to add to the draft legislation under discussion, so I will just try to recapture what we must not forget. The bill we are debating today is a step forward in the reconstruction of the social state in Greece, a state that will not just be a provider of benefits and a donor of institutions with what is more than the fragmentation of public wealth and its peculiarity by experts, but a state that has been responsible for caring for its citizens since birth. A state that has institutions, provisions, policies and control mechanisms which will not abandon at random the most vulnerable members of society, after merely ensuring that they have an elementary survival - and that of lenders and creditors - but will protect them in their own steps, defend their rights and ensure a resounding future. A well-structured system guided and controlled by the National Admission and Adoption Council. An appeal, Minister: In addition to the adoptions, there are daughters, I do not know what is more, let us finish with this outdated condition, which refers to the 'two children and a girl', and let us formally establish the 'telecommunication' term. We are therefore talking about a system that is guided and controlled by the National Council for Admission and Adoption - for the time being - managed by the National Centre for Social Solidarity, coordinates the respective public services, incorporates the provision of public and private institutions, exploits the scientific potential of the social workers' industry, but also the possibilities for electronic support from the HICP, with the aim of less lucky children in that country to stop being forgotten in mammals and bathe in institutions, to stop punishing themselves disproportionately and with disastrous consequences for any infringements of them, to stop being deprived of the environment, which will help them to heal the injuries, to make up for the losses and to develop unexpectedly. With tools from the National and Special Registers of Minors, the National and Special Registers of Candidate Parents and the National and Special Registers of Candidate Being Parents, people who wish to play one or other of the mentioned roles in the life of a child are identified, checked, judged on the different criteria imposed in each of the two cases, are finally trained and evaluated, as is necessary for foster parents, on occasion and as long as the assumption for foster parents is held. People are rightly excluded, who are subjected to specific offences and are right to any sexual orientation does not constitute an offence to modern societies and cannot be a cause for discrimination and exclusion, an exclusion from taking on this case, as prejudices and fears of someone would like. As far as possible health problems or economic problems are concerned, the question arises very seriously from what limit and above have a negative effect on a child's ability to care. On the other hand, no one can be considered above suspicion of some form of child abuse, as is shown by the tragic history of Cyprus and any associated signal issued by a child, express or inseparable, must be evaluated and controlled for biological and non-parent. But that's not what we're talking about today. Also rightly, the predictions of assumption do not stop at the typical age of eighteen, but extend to the completion of the studies, even the military obligations of the child in assumption and right there are the specific arrangements of professional assumption in cases where the state of the child requires specific, quasi-occupational, care. It is also right to keep a special and national contract notice and a national National Adoption Register - while always respecting personal data legislation - that any person concerned and interested after adulthood can be informed of the information available on his or her biological family. This is an excellent piece of legislation that upgrades the protection of the child in our country and deserves our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Poppas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u120	We have to say, as a national opposition in principle, in this House, that we have to say negative, denounce, denounce, conceive, or alter such acts, not because Greek society is efficacious in accepting the 'new customs', but in order to gradually restore the decline and alteration of this society, and in particular the future of the new generation. This new generation is trying today's political rats through the political system to corroborate and make these new children the barracks of indifferent consumerism and put them into the vortex of the degenerative tendencies of the new order and globalisation. We also need to demonstrate the pious desires of the Government, which, in essence, aims at an extra business with this bill, namely, promoting business interests through the process of taking up children through illegal immigrants' hospitality centres, etc. Our duty as a movement of national opposition is to overthrow this modus vivendi and reconstitute our society part - and put its cells back in the right place. Our debt as a movement of national opposition and national resistance is to take our homeland back. It is known that the term "take-over" has gained ground through many controversial international organisations, which are fighting national models of states and which are a subtle, corrosive, suspicious role in our national interest. Such an organization is the well-known and infamous 'ACTIONAID', which defines itself as an independent international organisation, which wants to mobilise Greek public opinion through campaigns to combat racism and social exclusion. On the other hand, we are sure and sunshine is more obvious that we are in front of another profitable business of SYRIZA through NGOs, which unfortunately artificially cloaks the cloak of charity, let alone now that the risk is small children. It is no coincidence that Article 2 provides for the establishment for the first time of a National Admission and Adoption Council. And why? Where is this exaggerated zeal, Minister, for the dissemination of the institutions of assumption and adoption? Does it also concern the parties involved, namely the various NGOs of the 'ACTIONAID' type, which has to do with the sister of Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Alexandra Mitsotakis and others? Let me remind you here of Mr Mitsotakis' other sister and her views. He had exposed the positive attitude of Ms. Venizelos' companion on the subject of taking up homosexual couples. Of course, the nephew, the Patriarch of Central Greece, had also preceded, with his earlier statement, who had stood not only in favour of admission, but had spoken of the adoption of children by homosexual couples and homosexuals. Mr. Mitsotakis and his sister along with several others voted for the coexistence pact for homosexuals in 2015, as they had voted for the 2008 Coexistence Pact of Constantine Karamanlis. The 2008 bill opened the ferry to meet us at this point today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. With your bill you completely ignore the rights of the child. The bill for us is a bill of ethnic catastrophic and we denounce it. We say, of course, "no" and vote against, noting, for all those who accuse us of anachronism, of conservativeism, the words of the great Italian philosopher of the twentieth century, of July Eboa, who said that today's leading act of resistance is the observance of traditions. And these traditions are observed by the Golden Dawn, because we are genuine rebel nationalists. We are therefore defending orthodoxism, Greek tradition, and that is why we are fighting for it. We are fighting for the existence of a Greek national state, which the neomarxist left in collaboration with the liberal right is trying to degrade. We, ladies and gentlemen, Greek people, fight for the great Greece of our dreams. We're fighting for homeland, faith, family, and above all for freedom. And that's why the Greek people support us, they hug us more and more day after day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr Kyriazides, you have the floor and I would ask you to limit your time as long as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u122	Fortunately, the fellow Member has not referred to the carrots. Colleagues and colleagues, the government for once chooses to challenge society, consciously chooses to turn into fair with a cloak of falsifying situations and phenomena that do not have the broad acceptance of society or even science. He is trying to make a purely minority, false-progressive view as a holding view in order to satisfy a least part of the electorate, which has adopted opportunely. In this micro-political altar institutions and provisions of family law are abused and sacrificed, which is rightly causing reactions even by government MPs. So, they're also scavengers, misanthropists, etc. I am referring to the contested Article 8 of the draft law, which thus provides the possibility of carrying out the status of parenting couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement. This provision, which is characterised as very innovative, is directly contrary to both the Constitution and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was ratified by law in 1992 and has, in accordance with Article 28(1) of the Constitution, increased formality and indeed contrary to the individual regulations, as Article 21(1) of the Constitution defines and raises the family as the foundation for the maintenance and promotion of the nation's fees in that regard marriage, maternity and childhood under the protection of the State. Article 3(1) of the abovementioned Convention expressly states that all decisions concerning children, whether taken by public authorities or by private social protection bodies, by the courts, administrative authorities or by legislative bodies such as us, must be taken primarily into account in the interests of the child. But in this case, how is the best interests of the child ensured? Is material benefits enough, or is it an end in itself, to take the child into account when the environment that this is called upon to live is not taken into account? Is cohabitation a model and socially and biologically acceptable with a homosexual couple? What standards does the child receive in such a relationship? Indeed, reasons exclusively referring to the true interest of the minor in principle impose the exclusion of individuals in order to ensure the sacred institution of assumption. And to explain: Each one's sexual preferences are free choices under the law. However, it is not a choice compatible with the interests of the child that its distorting education through models in its sensitive age, which of course shape the way and the perception of his life. Ladies and gentlemen, one really wonders about the urgency you are bringing to the vote on such a provision. The lack of scientific data and the impossibility of arguments is evident from this explanatory statement. Madam Minister, you have always referred to ELSTAT as well, which shows the dramatic decline in adoptions over the last five years. But as you know, the procedure for the adoption of a child goes beyond four years. Since July 2016, New Democracy has presented its proposals for abandoned children, assumption and adoption. Today if I ask you what the number of abandoned children in institutions is, you will not be able to answer me. It's said to be two or three thousand. Of course, you cannot tell me either what the number of demands for adoption is. On the contrary, however, it refers to the explanatory statement that it has been observed internationally, following studies carried out, that children who have been placed in a foster family, a foster family, have reduced psychological problems in relation to what is growing in closed care structures. Indeed, they may receive this data about true. However, it is deliberately absolved and it is not clear how many of these children were placed in family couples and, in the end, if they had been observed that they had experienced reduced psychosocial problems within years. Subsequently, every citizen is asking the following question: Is it really a better place for a minor and a healthy family environment, as is the case in this regard? Really, how does it mean and how does it define this healthy family environment? What scientific criteria is this concept approaching? And in any case, how is this healthy environment connected with living conditions within a homosexual relationship with what this entails? The placement of a minor in a non-heterosexual environment, where the distinctive father or parental and female standard lacks will certainly have a negative impact, both in the social surroundings and in the child's own mental balance, which is inconsistent with its own interests. It would be useful for even a social survey to be carried out here in Greece in order to highlight this issue. Colleagues and colleagues, reasons for faith, decency, consistency and seriousness do not allow me to vote for this provision, which degrades the institution of the family, exposes children and endangers values and stability which we all have to respect. Assumption is not the right of homosexual couples, but the right of the minor, whose interest is primarily to be weighted. This provision is not necessary, but a desire and appropriateness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Before we go on, I should like to raise two points: one concerns many colleagues who have said that they have forgotten or have not found their card. If there are colleagues who do not have a card to say this now, so that we can make it work on it, even for today's vote. The second point is that the House has agreed to close the sitting at 14: 00 and to hold the roll-call vote. He has agreed that the Minister should not be placed. However, the time already is 14:35 and I have two requests from colleagues to speak. I have to ask this House if you want to wait another half hour or not, otherwise we will start after the two colleagues have been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u124	Therefore, if Mr Hadjisavvas and Mr Barkas were to be put in the roll-call vote, we would like to start the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u125	We disagree, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u126	It is not a matter of minority or majority. It is a question of keeping the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u127	You disagree, but the majority agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u128	This is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Aivatidis, I specifically gave you the choice if you want to put yourself on the list instead of Mr. Hadjisavvas and Mr. Papapas spoke without joining the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u130	I don't know that. It's none of my business.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u131	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u132	This has been done exceptionally, and you could speak instead of Mr Hadjisavva. Let us not waste time, because we have already exceeded time. If anyone's lost his card, or he doesn't have it with him, he can state it now. Otherwise he will not be able to vote. Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. In my argument that what those who disagree with Article 8 will hear after a number of years and laugh, I would like to say to you that at the moment - leave a few years away - people are laughing at your arguments. In fact, some cry on your arguments. The world outside is not the environment that you and your friends are moving. I am not, of course, saying that in my speech to change my mind to some of the Members. I don't have that kind of hope. I'm just saying it just so people can hear it and see what we're talking about here today. Today's bill, of course, is not autonomous. Article 8 incorporates it into a series of bills, which we as Golden Dawn said are precursors of other situations, but you said then that our arguments do not hold back. As the impulse influx of Islamics will lead to their inclusion in schools, it will lead to a right to mosques, it will lead to citizenship, permanent residence, the cohabitation pact in gay couples will lead to childbirth, adoption, etc. Everything else wasn't secret. Some MPs celebrated here. Unfortunately, as Golden Dawn, we were once again confirmed. But why does the government serve this? Maybe they're making it easy for her after all? The ministers take one - one of all the components, one - one of you Members of Parliament and serve you for micro-political interests, because they have entangled you and you have voted and voted for Memorandum and Memorandum measures, as if there were no tomorrow. They made you servants of Germany, Merkel and "Deutsche Bank" and you have the courage to talk about even German friends. The left world has gone through now. Only now, apart from your opponents, you understand it yourself, so you put aside your social revolution, throw away your anti-fascist and philosophical account, which has now become a fairy tale, making homosexuality, anti-racism, anti-fascism, ecology and so on. Left is over. You are a codified ideology and managers of capitalism. You are no longer interested in being against capitalism, as long as it is tolerant of the rights that serve you micropolitically. And your personal interests, even if they are not directly related to Greek citizens, suddenly become direct rights and are micro-powered issues in gender relations, family relations and everything else, while the members of all these minorities are financially exterminated. In short, all the Members who voted for memoranda have thus violated all the constitutionally guaranteed rights of Greek citizens, such as freedom of speech or the right to property, the right to free education, public health and work. And we heard about the eighth and the fixed work! And after all that you have deprived of the Memorandum together, you all come here today and become the most enthusiastic fans and proprietors of rights, by me of false rights. The worst is that you're taking an opportunity pretext for a right and undermining it, you're undermining it, like the cohabitation pact. So you get the need for some people to do it, and you put the gay couples in it. Take the need for some cannabis patients and start talking about cannabis cultivation,'musical' cannabis and whatever. Now, with childbirth, you're going to solve a problem that, in fact, there's for some families who want to take a child, but you're putting in, and that's what it's going to be. And people don't understand that today's bill came to make it easier for some children to go to families to facilitate childbirth. So you undermined this serious issue, that children should be able to go to families more easily, and you are talking about a right. But when you refer to the right to today's draft law, it is the right of children to be able to grow up in a family with a mother and father, such as tradition, biology and our religion. It outweighs the right of families who want to have a child. The people who see us, let's make just one picture in their minds about this serious issue that we're talking about today. Yeah, it's hard to adopt a child. It requires a great deal of effort, anguish and many actions to be taken by families who want to have a child. But even more difficult, more agonistic, more heavy and responsible is the position of all those who have to decide to whom a child will trust. It is very important that they decide whether to give luck and what hands they will give it for a child's future. Definitely not on your own criteria!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva. Mr. Barkas has the floor. If you, too, suffice in five minutes to help us complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u135	And there are the last three speeches we have heard in Parliament, which sometimes I am ashamed to be with some people in the same seat of the Greek Parliament. Mr President, we are debating a bill today, which one could describe as self-evident. One or one of us might think that today, forty-four years after the establishment of democracy in our country, all of us Greek MPs lift the switch so that the light of Enlightenment can spread in our country. But unfortunately, it's not like that. It is a bill which can - and has already happened - be divided into two parts, the right to take over and the right to childbirth. Ascension, then, means helping someone to grow and grow, to care for their needs when their parents are unable to assume their parental obligations. Therefore, foster parents are individuals who offer a warm and secure family environment, where care is given to children of other parents for a period of time, which may last for a few days, months, or years. Documentation is the legal procedure in which some, by judicial decision, acquire the rights and obligations of the parent for a child whose parents are not natural. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on this bill, people who want to see themselves progressive have heard that they are ahead. Unfortunately, however, it appears from what they have said that it is not only in the front, but it is even too far behind. They are so far behind that society itself, the society that they themselves are trying to radicalize. They hold the chains of oblivion, regression, of the past in their hands. You're retreating, gentlemen of society. You don't radicalize her. The debate is moving around Article 8 of the bill. In my opinion badly. You conservatives think it's your privileged field. Your argument is the possible comments that children will hear. Yes, sir. And you conservatives defend the normal family, in your view, as a family, where father beats the mother, because he is "man", "normal" family where the parent beats his children and exercises psychological violence because he can. The debate on Article 8 must be done in the right sense to simplify procedures for the admission of children, to save some children who are in institutions. Mr President, I would like you to give me the opportunity to refer to what I think is of particular importance, namely the simplification of childcare procedures. The Conservative Members of the New Democracy, the regressive MPs, may hide behind Rule 8, but their conservative view of childbirth, in any way we can do this, must also be demonstrated. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, let us not hide it any more, let us say it clearly here: you are against childbirth. Many new couples today fail to have a child through fertilization. The signs of the times? I don't know if the couple rate has increased or just now people have broken the old taboo and can admit it, but all of us know a couple in our family rounds, who can't have a child. But they long for them to become parents and the existing framework leads them to the illegal nets of childbirth, to take a child from a doctor, because if they follow the normal procedure, unfortunately the difficulty is such that it is difficult to taste this happiness of becoming parents. "Anikano" means a man or a "jufi" who cannot fertilize and must live with this stigma! "Sterfly" and "incapable" of the woman who cannot fertilize and must also live with this stigma! And new couples melt in the fertilization centers! Unfortunately, the Greek Parliament does not care about these people, about the misery of the new couples. So it's an opportunity to put a stop to tacticalism. Let new couples render the love that has been locked inside of them to children in the foundations. Let's not take no care of it any further. Let's all give our chance, big boys, to feel the love of the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Barkas. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 214a]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 1st Argos of Orestarian Castoria. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned, "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u144	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u145	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 8 of the bill requires a roll-call vote by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u146	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mr. Shahinides John. Here you go. Mr. Hajisavasavas Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. An electronic roll-call vote will be held on Article 8 of the bill and after the announcement of the result we will proceed to the vote on the remaining articles of the bill. Please open the electronic voting system, which will be open for five minutes so that Members can vote on Article 8 of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u148	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that letters by colleagues from Mr Marios Salmas, Mr Mavroudi Voridis and Mr Vassilis Kokalis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'OH'. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter by Mr Theocharis Theocharis, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he were here he would vote 'NAI'. There is also a letter from Mr Georgios Vagionas, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he was present he would vote 'NOV'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but are not counted on the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u150	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed. We have already given too much tolerance. The voting system is open for six and a half minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u151	Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u152	Consequently, Article 8 of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions and other provisions" was accepted by a majority. After the roll-call vote on Article 8 has been concluded, we shall vote on the remaining articles. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u153	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u154	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u155	Therefore, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘A measures to promote the Assumption and Adoption Institutions and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u157	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 9 March 2018, Monday 12 March 2018, Wednesday 14 March 2018, Thursday 15 March 2018 and Friday 16 March 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u158	The minutes of Friday 9 March 2018, Monday 12 March 2018, Wednesday 14 March 2018, Thursday 15 March 2018 and Friday 16 March 2018 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-05-09-S1-commons.u159	With the consent of the House at 15.28 hours the meeting for Wednesday 9 May 2018 at 18.00, on the subject of the work of the House, legislative work: only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Recommendation of a Refreshment Body of the City of Athens".
