ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions Release of Friday 16 November 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 147/12-11-2018 by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: ‘Absorbance of EDF resources 2014-2020’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 143/12-11-2018 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "The state of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 148/12-11-2018, a timely question by MP I Piraeus, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 140/6-11-2018 by Independent Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Will there be an amendment to the Staff Regulations of 6.1714/5.1504/2016 on “Promoting employment through programmes of a public nature in the framework of the NSRP 2014-2020 for all beneficiaries as well as for workers in municipalities and accepting services, asylum and management?". 3. The 117/30-10-2018 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of State, on the subject: "At the immediate treatment of the problems of Argolida's export company "GERFA" - G.N. Francesco - two thousand producers, four hundred and seven hundred workers in the air." 4. The question by No 121/1-11-2018 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Mixed Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts". 5. The Question No 74/16-10-2018 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled "The planning for maritime education". 6. The Question No 53/11-10-2018 by MP Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Port House with a view to establishing an EOZ and an EOG mining of hydrocarbons and natural gas’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 20/3-10-2018 topical question by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Turkish Challenge continues in the Aegean". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 124/18-7-2018 by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Gregorios Stogiannidis to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Amendment to Article 116 of Law 4495/2017, concerning additions or modifications that have been made to traditional settlements such as the old city and the Samakov region in Xanthi". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "Surveyance and upgrading of the Peloponnese University Nursing School of Nursing in Sparta". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that MPs, Mr Constantine Skrekas and Mr Dora Bakoyannis are requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Mrs Bakoyannis is in America, where she had an intervention, and we wish her 'permanently'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to make the following point clear in this House: The third, with number 120/1-11-2018, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Skopje Lake becomes Thessaloniki on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement", will not be discussed. The fourth under number 75/16-10-2018 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The fifth under number 1/1-10-2018 is a topical question of the second cycle of the MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonian Struggle and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. There is also the corresponding letter from the Secretary-General of the Government about these three questions which will not be discussed. So we begin with the first timely question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Athanasios Eliopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, could I precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u5	Just a minute, Mr. Petropoulou, let me see where you are. You're second and Mr. Delis is here. So we'll do Mr. Petropoulos the grace, because he's one of the regulars. The question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will therefore be discussed, on the subject of: "Relocation of the Third Local Branch of Deputies of Thessaloniki". Mr. Petropoulos will answer. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the most numerous time we have asked this question. We do not know where this indifference on the part of the government might be due to respond to an issue that we consider to be extremely serious. The first time we raised the issue with reference was in 2016. We came back last spring, in the autumn, the third simple written question was tabled, and now the timely question is being asked. We hope that something positive will come out of the process today. "A slower than ever," the people say. The question therefore concerns the issue of the inappropriateness and, I would say, the risk of the third building of EKKA wage earners in Thessaloniki, Lagada Street, on this central road in Thessaloniki. The former IKA Neapolitan, that is, has been housed there since 1992 and since its beginning, it has revealed its great problems and inappropriateness. I am referring to a number of things, so that the scale of the problem can also be understood to you. First of all, the reception area. It's a building, which I happen to know. I've visited it several times. So the reception area is suffocatingly small to serve the entire world that comes into this building. Access to HEIs cannot be found, Minister, in the specific building which, as I said, is located on a central road in Thessaloniki. If we add the hygiene conditions there, I'd say it's tragic. There are only two toilets for fifty workers and at least four hundred visitors - insured persons coming to it. As you can see, we do not think that we can continue our operation of this kind in such a building, so we ask you what you will do, in what immediate measures you will take, so that the 3rd Thessaloniki Efka is finally relocated to a suitable building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, I will not try to contradict you because, as you have said, it has been a building that has been rented since 1992, indeed inappropriate. I will tell you that for the first time you are asking me to answer a timely question on this issue. I want this to be made clear. I have not been invited to answer a timely question. You have sent letters - I have seen this since your timely question - which were forwarded to the competent authorities to investigate the matter and to go on trying to find a correct solution to the problem you have rightly raised in your question. That's right. The effort that has been made is to open competitions, which this year were declared barren because it was considered that the price was small. The suggestion of the service is that a competition should be opened at a higher price if another building is found. The practical solution we give is not to accept this service in common. We will turn it into a support service until we find a definitive solution, i.e. they will not be served there as insured, but will be served by border areas. We are transporting due to the new structure of OLAF public service services to other adjacent points, and there will be a supporting service with thirty-six employees. Therefore, there will be no such serious problems that arise as a result of the accumulation of many people in the space. It's not a solution again. This is not the final solution for us. We are geared towards finding another building by another body, giving a more decent solution for those who stay behind. There will be no problem today in the version of a new function we find, because we will not have the present problems. We are not indifferent to this and I will not disagree with you that a solution must be found immediately. But we have tried to find a solution for this whole time. We also saw the OAED schools so that we could find places there. We visited them three times both with our organization's technicians and with OAS technicians and with the commander, Ms. Karamesini, in order to find some places in OAED and to turn them into service places for the insured, but unfortunately the spaces are not even suitable for them. It would be a good solution, and there are spaces, but they are not suitable for this purpose. That is to say, moving forward for a while and then having a problem again is not a solution. That is why we are heading for a more definitive solution, to find another building if a barren competition arises again. Because the time passes with the contests, we will try more quickly to find practical solutions, such as the one I told you. It is a matter of immediate solution to the issue of limiting activities to a support unit and not of public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, fifty three students and students and four teachers from the 1st General High School in Ano Liosia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you again, Mr President. What I have, Minister, from your answer, is essentially the downgrading of the service, that is, it hurts head, it cuts head. That's what you just said. You said that because you too recognise the inappropriateness and risk of the building, so the public will not come. However, the workers will be there. They'll be working in an inappropriate and dangerous building. Why do I have to tell you here that this building has serious stagnation problems, according to IKA's own report - which I imagine your Office is aware - and he says, for word - a report written in 2001 - that the building is experiencing serious problems, so that neither the signatory nor the owner of the building is able to guarantee the static adequacy of the building. As you can see, this does not leave a postponement. What you have just said does not think is a solution to the issue. Solution is the immediate relocation. As far as we know, a competition has been opened to make use of the properties of the same property as EVKA's own and several properties. I would remind you that a few years ago, one of these properties was given a very low price to the United States Embassy here, just beyond, to Queen Sofia. So there are properties of the EPC itself - yes, I am talking about the early 2000s - which can be exploited and in any case you have a responsibility to deal with the problem. The point is that this building, as I told you, has so many problems. First of all, it is a building which has been built together and because I happen to know it becomes extremely dangerous. Even the PPC table there, according to the employees themselves, cannot raise all the electrical loads that the service can accept. In any case, we think you have a responsibility. You did not give a concrete answer. You left it vaguely: 'It will be done', 'we will see', 'we will take care of it', and we are concerned about that. Because if the world that will no longer go to Efaka, in this 3rd Efaka Neapolis, would go to other agencies and given the subdelegation of these services, the workload of these services that the public will accept will be increased. We think that you are not actually answering the question and you are not giving a solution. We hope in your dentistry that you say something more specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Delis, transferring workers from Thessaloniki to Queen Sofia, Athens, you obviously don't mean it either.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u13	There are many buildings in Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u14	I said an example of taking advantage, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u15	You obviously don't mean it. It's understandable. I get it. I haven't misunderstood what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u16	"MAKEDONIA PALAS" didn't you give it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u17	Put them in "MAKEDONIA PALAS" again wouldn't be something you mean, I imagine. It can't be done. There's more there.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u18	There are many buildings and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u19	Let's listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u20	I have been answering since the beginning. I will not compare with you for things that we know are the way you say it. For what is as you say, I have no objection to concluding your findings. But in what they don't stand and I can't admit, I'm telling you it's not like that. First of all, in your first speech, you said at least four hundred per day that come there. There are two bathrooms. It's a lot of people, a string of people. I gave you the solution: it won't be that string anymore. There will be no people who go, so a rough and temporary solution is in it. It is effective, however, as to the part in which you have located, namely the hours of the world. There won't be any of this. But it is not the final solution. It is an immediate regulation of a problem in order to have time, because there are no owners of the FBI around there. If there were, we'd have done it. We're running a rental contest. It is not that we want to rent buildings, but in order to serve the area, EVA must have a building. I told you we tried to find an OAED building, but it's inappropriate. If we went there, you'd say it's inappropriate. We have indeed seen with all the technicians that it is inappropriate and that it is not intended properly for such use that must be served in another way. We were having barren competitions. It's not a solution either. We'll try while it's not something we want to start a competition at a higher price. It's not what we want. In order to avoid this, however, we will try to establish a public building in another body. We're investigating this possibility. If we find another public body, we'll find a solution, as long as the building is suitable for them too. Don't put on all the buildings of the FBI. The services of Thessaloniki cannot come to Athens nor, of course, go to hotels, to "ESPERIA" or to "MAKEDONIA PALAS", which my friend Christos Katsotis also says and does not mean it of course. Therefore, you should know the policy we have on real estate, for the first time after decades, that we are interested in exploiting real estate. We have greatly reduced the costs for leases, with huge savings for the social security institutions for the ECA and for the EIF, and you must praise the effort we are making. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] We cannot, since 1992, find a direct solution to this problem. Unfortunately, the layout of the buildings for the old IKA and the old IKA was given in an anarchist, unscheduled, clipboard, and was not properly designed, so that buildings were given to the EKA that could be better exploited by the EKA and the EKA. What can we do now? We can't change things immediately. But we're changing them with another different design.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. We are now returning to the question to which the State Secretary, Mr Athanasios Eliopoulos, will answer. It is the second question under number 152/13-11-2018 of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Incorporation into the more favourable arrangement for repayment of housing loans received and borrowers from banks with a subsidised interest rate from the former Organisation of Labour Housing (OEC) and the public". Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that Law 4053/2014, which was passed in New Democracy on the regulation of subsidised bank loans formerly OEC, with the criteria that it had thrown off over sixty thousand borrowers who had received loans from banks subsidised by the OEC. This regulation did not benefit anyone, on the contrary, most had to sign a new contract with the banks. They were excluded because they owed more than six months under this law, going to their banks, they offered a prolongation, but by signing this new contract, they lost the OEC subsidy. Thus, thousands of borrowers were trapped. Since the loans were only 15 years, the monthly instalment, as is known, reaches 700 to 800 euros. However, the same was done and excluded from the ministerial decision issued by the Ministry of Labour, now to the Government of SYRIZA, by Resolution 522463173. This decision has excluded all those borrowers who had received loans with a subsidy from the former ECE, so that they are now in a very bad position because there is no regulation for them. So the question we have tabled is whether the government intends to take a new decision by the Ministry of Labour and to include in the more favourable arrangement for repayment of housing loans and those borrowers sent by the former EC to banks to obtain a housing loan with a subsidy from the former EC and the public. We are waiting for your answer to this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u23	The speech is made by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Ilioopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, to have an overall picture of the data at the moment the OAED is following the course of seventy-three thousand per cent of all ninety-four loans. Of these, fifteen thousand sixteen hundred forty relate to people living in OEC residences and fifty-seven thousand five hundred fifty-three market loans with own funds from OEC. These are the cases that you mentioned in the Ministerial Decision. The ministerial decisions that have come out have been a number of positive arrangements, such as 10 years of extension of the repayment period, in case more than 60% of the final amount of the loan has been repaid, and 15% of the initial loan amount has been reduced horizontally for all categories. There are even more positive conditions for vulnerable groups, such as third parties, HEIs, etc. Also, the maximum uniform price per square metre for OEK dwellings subsidized by the former OEK with own funds of EUR 404,41 has been set. This has a direct positive impact, because it moved all the loans down and therefore, together with the three hundred sixty instalments of repayment of the beneficiaries, has created a much better framework. You are quite right that it remains unregulated and that there is a need for public intervention to take place on the issue of the people that the former OEC was directed to obtain a loan directly from the banks. The reality, however, is that in the way that the OSCE was abolished and absorption by OSCE is that there was no longer a serious record, and it was at the moment necessary to check the whole file, because there are too many deficiencies. This process, as I have been informed by the services, will be completed by the end of February. So, having mapped out the whole procedure, we will be able to see how we go ahead and what exactly the intervention should be. I think it is important that this should be done, because the whole of what we are talking about so far comes to regulate open tracks, but we must also open up the debate on what a modern housing policy means today on the part of the state of the world of work. I think there is the possibility of reopening this debate that after the abolition of the OEC had now been frozen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u26	Minister, until this modern housing policy is in place, all these borrowers are in the nails of banks and, of course, under the threat of auctioning and seizures. You should know that. As we have said, it is more than sixty thousand on the basis of the information we have - fifty thousand you said - but it is not about how many people are. The point is that there are today such borrowers who are their first residence, and even residence that the agency approves. It is not a home of EUR 200,000, it is a concrete square measure, which the agency approved at the time and therefore went to the banks to get the loan. Today, then, they have been thrown out of New Democracy's 2014 arrangement, because the conditions were such that many could not respond, because they had lost their job, their wages had been reduced, they were in a very difficult position. The ministerial decision you made has excluded them, and so today they are in the nails of the banks. So that is what we are asking for even this ministerial decision to be extended for them. One extension, therefore, would also have these conditions which you mentioned earlier, the favourable conditions, and the capital cuts, and the lengthening and all that is foreseen for the other borrowers of the former ECE who have been forced to go to the first place to borrow. This is the concern, if you wish, expressed by all those who did not take responsibility for the banks - the OEC directed them to the banks - and today it is in this difficult position, because banks impose unreasonable conditions for repayment of loans. As I have told you, the repayment period and the instalment are very long, and not all these borrowers today can respond to this dose, because both wages are low and employment relationships are flexible, rotating, some time and you know it very well, but many are still unemployed, because they have lost their jobs at this time of crisis in our country. This was the'solution': redundancies, the reduction in wages, the change in industrial relations. These measures have been taken all this time to load the crisis on the back of workers and the people. So this situation needs to be addressed and we invite you to extend the ministerial decision to these borrowers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Eliopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u28	Mr Katsotis, I fully agree with you. You are quite right that there is a responsibility of the state in this particular matter, and in particular of the administration of the OEC, and what was the perception of the previous governments on housing policy, it is illustrated by the fact that, without any planning and without the guarantee of its further progress, the OEC administration had chosen to direct these people to take loans from the banks. I think what I mentioned before about what the current government has already done to regulate loans is precisely that there is this concern, there is this stress to regulate these loans, to close these wounds. I will return to you and say that, in order to be able to tell you specifically what action is to be taken, what will be its characteristics, what structure, what scope, we must first and foremost have mapped the field very well. That was the state of dismantling the service that didn't even exist. And when I say the evidence, it's not the little difference if I'm the agency told me that it's more than fifty thousand, or you know it's a number that approaches the sixty thousand. It's the sums, it's the whole framework you need to know about doing this intervention. What I can tell you is that we are working in this direction. By the end of February, we will have all this information, so we will be able to know exactly what can be done and I can tell you that there are possibilities for intervention. But I want to be able to give a very specific answer, to the extent that we have first recorded and mapped the field, because otherwise it would be a very easy answer, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u29	Minister, by making a small violation of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask you to see a subject that it attended this morning at the 'OPEN' television station, for a hundred and seventy-six working dwellings in Corfu, which, while the draw has been held since 2010, have still not been inside. 13 beneficiaries have already died. From what I heard, there was the money from the OAED, six million. I think it's worth it to see and give it a solution. If you have anything to say, I'd be happy to. You don't have to, I stress it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much for the observation. We know that. At the moment we are in contact with the Municipality of Corfu. It was done: He had undertaken a piece of work on biological cleansing for dwellings for the municipality to carry it out. Unfortunately, the municipality, because they are also subordinated and its technical services, has now understood that it does not have the opportunity. If I am not mistaken, next week the Corfu City Council will make an official request to the OAED to change initial planning and take over the OAED to build the biological cleansing, something in which the OAED can cope and we will run very quickly in this direction. Thank you very much for the observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u31	I thank you for giving a very clear answer without having to do so. We proceed to the first with number 146/12-11-2018, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Ioannis Kefaloyannis, to the Foreign Minister, on ‘Reports by the former Foreign Minister on allegedly bribery of the government’. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer Mr. George Katrugalos. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is about a month since Greek citizens are amazed that they are now following and former government ministers to exchange their accusations and hints - and I am referring to Mr Kotzias and Mr Kammenos - and even these accusations and hints have come to the point that Mr Kotzias will also file a complaint with Marios Pagos. In particular, Mr Kotzias, former Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Government, at his TV interview at the "KRITH TV" station, mentioned a very specific accusation made by Mr Kammenos during the Ministerial Council. In particular, Mr Kotzias said that Mr Kammenos denounced him that there is a company working with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Mr Soros for the extradition of VISA for citizens of the European Union and for our country and, secondly, that Mr Soros actually bribes the government. Yesterday Mr. Kotzias in an interview with "NEWS247" was more revealing. He said that Mr Kammenos told the Ministerial Council specifically that Mr Soros gave the Greek Government EUR 50 million to make takeovers in Skopje. He insisted, of course, on Mr Soros's visa company at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr Kotzias went on to say that Mr Tsipras during the Ministerial Council made Pontius Pilate and that none of the other ministers reacted. Mr Kammens, whose written reply I have here, has in fact been partially confirmed by Mr Kotzia. Firstly, he said he did report on Mr. Soros, but specifically he referred to the company that works with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for issuing a visa. Secondly, the government representative, Mr Janakopoulos, and other ministers, who said that Mr Kammenos did not make any reference to the Ministerial Council. So, Minister, I do not expect you to deny Mr Kammenos today. He himself, through his written answer to the substance, confirms that he made a reference to Mr Soros. I ask you: Firstly, if he did mention 50 million, as regards the acquisition of the Greek Government, in order to be used in Skopje. Secondly, because Mr Kammenos confirms this - exactly what Mr Soros has to do with this particular company linked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the issuing of a visa. Thirdly, if Mr Tsipras continues, as Mr Kotzias says, to be Pontius Pilate or to investigate this complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u33	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u34	My dear colleague, I have come to reply to this question from respect for Parliament, which I expected you to show. I have so far respected your parliamentary presence. I consider you a serious parliamentary man. That's why I'm gonna try my protology to be restrained. You have asked a question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In your written question you do not mention what you have now associated with the Ministry's activities, but you were referring exclusively to what was referred to the Ministerial Council. So, first of all, from a formal point of view, you should know that you are addressing a question that lies outside the competence of the Ministry's parliamentary control. We should not get the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny facilitated. We're not in a TV window. We must not use every cheap instrument we have to highlight our policy. The New Democracy does have an agenda problem. You do not raise the issues on the agenda and you are trying to create issues in this cheap way that I have told you. It is not Parliament's place for such things. On the substance, too, you should know that all these issues you have raised have been answered multiplely. So there is no sign to be investigated, except for those who want to distort reality in the very sensitive area of foreign policy, which you should also respect. So I invite you to show your responsibility. Even at the last minute you understand what you're doing and don't go on. I'm not going to go any further. Obviously, I am totally reluctant to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u36	Minister, with absolute respect for the procedure - and you know, I think, my course here - I referred to a question. At the same time as asking Mr Tsipras in his dual capacity, as Foreign Minister but of course also as Prime Minister of the country, I had asked Mr Kammen exactly the same question. Mr. Kammenos has rushed to answer me. I shall read to you his reply from 1 November 2018. Amongst other things, it says - without adding a party -: 'I have referred to this person in conjunction with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a visa issuing company which, however, has nothing to do with the government. I am not going to go on trying to build some scientific fantasy scenarios, obviously it refers to Mr Kotzias, 'on my specific references'. Mr Kotzias, Minister, just yesterday, says: "I asked for the minutes of that Ministerial Council. The government's Secretary-General told me it's not possible. They've been kept a while, and then there's a summary and they're going to the file." He continues for the complaints made by Mr. Kammenos yesterday, Mr. Kotzias: "For Soros Kammenos, Kammenos said that he gave 50 million to make takeovers in Skopje and that he has a link with a company with which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cooperates, which belongs to the Government." So Mr. Kammenos made these reports, according to Mr. Kotzia. So I come back to the original question of my question, Mr Minister, to which you are artificially well legal - you have not answered. I insist that you tell me: has this reference been made by Mr. Kammenos during the Ministerial Council on the involvement of Mr. Soros with the Greek Government? If it happened, how did the government react, how did the Prime Minister react? If it didn't happen, then Mr. Kotzias is fantastic. If, however, it was then, according to Mr Kotzia's arguments, Mr Kammenos is a muddler. There is no third answer, Minister. But you must respond, because I think that Parliament is the place where these answers must be given. I agree it's not the TV windows. That is why I am making use of exactly the procedure of the Qualified Opposition, namely the timely question to the Government, precisely to give answers. And I'm waiting for a clean answer, because you're a man who, I think, can give clean answers and not half a word. I think it is very specific that the question I ask you is.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u38	Mr Colleagues, you have confirmed what I have been telling you in your denunciation. That is, firstly, that detailed answers have been given. You have read to me the answers given by different sources yourself. And, secondly, you continued to identify the subject of your question as to what was spent on the Ministerial Council. On the second point, I say again that this is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am also telling you that the Prime Minister himself has clearly placed himself. As you referred to Soros and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I can tell you what, in fact, is within the object of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that there is no contract of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that can in any way have been influenced by Soros or that the Ministry has concluded with Soros. These are self-evident things. These debates, therefore, I say again, in order to serve parliamentarianism, must take place in the climate of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the very sense of responsibility that we must have. And I'm saying it specifically to you, precisely because we seem to have mutually appreciativeness, to know that there is a place for criticism. Many of the things we do may be critical and have room for political dialogue. Don't make this political dialogue like we're a belligerent column. Sufficient answers have been given to these issues. There is no shadow of doubt to the Greek people about what happened. The political coverage given by the Prime Minister and by the Government to the policy pursued by the Minister of Foreign Affairs remains a given one, because that was a government policy, it was not a policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For all the others, the cloud which has been discussed lately in the press and in the newspapers, there are clear statements from all sides and as far as we are concerned from the most valid lips, the Prime Minister's lips. I do not think that anyone expects to be wiser than this. It is precisely because I have an appreciation on your face that I expected you to withdraw it and it would not take place this debate which I think was not wiser and, above all, the way it was done and the reasons I said to you did not promote the way in which parliamentary control should be carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u39	We move to the first 145/12-11-2018 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘The consequences of the disputed forest land on the eligible areas of our country in both the current and the next Common Agricultural Policy (CAP)’. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arachovitis, the truth is that I am surprised to see that Mr Arachovitis, who is responsible for the matter that we are discussing today, does not come to you today, even though the subject of the question falls outside your competences. You will forgive me, I have absolutely nothing personal toward you, and not even what I say has any intention of insulting you, but I regret to say that the Minister is obviously hiding and obviously this attitude is a confession of failure, Minister, on the huge problems suffered by the country's agri-food world in the recent advancement of the single payment with the irresponsibility and carelessness with which you handled the issue of forest maps. The producers, Mr Minister, have experienced this because not only have they been unpaid, who did not enter the prescribed objection procedures, which your government in 2017 has legislated, but have been unpaid - and this is unpaid - even those who have raised objections - and very costly, Minister - and who have seen the accounts empty. Last week I was in your constituency, Larissa, where I imagine you will know very well that there are whole villages that did not take the check and not one producer even though, for example, no one was paid for in Farsala. The sad thing is that the picture presented today, which relates to a third of the country's forest maps tomorrow, Mr Minister, will happen with your own actions in the areas that have been posted, such as, for example, in my constituency of the year when farmers will experience the results of your operations. We, Minister, have warned you by parliament, we are hitting the alarm, and we have tabled an amendment to this effect that we asked you to exclude all the cultivated areas which the producers of the country are awarded with the title of the Greek State, the so-called legacy legacy before 1975 to end this adventure. You didn't hear us and put the producers in this process. Producers have not only lost the basic aid, but they will lose all the related aid, the 'drug' and I fear that if the situation continues like this, they will also lose all the programmes in the second pillar, biological micropollution. And in order to deal with this storm that comes, I mean the second payments, Minister, I regret to say that you have ordered the forests of the country where there are questionable forest land to come to producers of arrow and to make claims for the redemption of the lot they hold with the legitimate title of the Greek public, of course, proving in practice what we have been telling you since the first time that your measure on forest maps was purely collective. Minister, how many are the producers who have not been paid because of the disputed forest land, opposing or not? How many are these areas and what steps are you going to take and with what timetable to put an end to this vicious circle and to tell us if you guarantee that all will be settled as necessary in December?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us say that in the Ministry of Rural Development, whose leadership is united, no one is hiding, most of all Stavros Arachovitis. There are, of course, practical responsibilities for both the Minister and the State Secretarys, but no one is hiding. Let us make it clear - and I think you will agree with this - that suspension and ratification of forest maps have been an obligation of our country for eight years. I think no one doubts that. It had to be from 2010. This government did so in 2017. When the forest maps were posted, there was - I am pleased with the question - a reasonable concern of many thousands of farmers, farmers and the area of Thessaly and yoursaly for the fate of the aid, but also for the property fortune - and that is much more important - for the fate of the land. We talked about it and then, to make it clear a little and see who is the fault of not being paid, when they will be paid and told clearly. Existing legal uses of land are not affected by forest maps, which means resuscitations, concessions, distributions have nothing to do with forestry maps as regards the ownership and fate of the aid. I repeat, concessions, distributions, reafforestations, what property was acquired in accordance with the provisions of agricultural legislation. You ask, though, why didn't a lot of people get paid from Volos, from Larissa? According to the Agency of the Ministry of Rural Development, in conjunction with the famous law of ‘KALIKRATI’, the certification of the legal power of agricultural properties and geographical identification are the DAGs of each region. I'm not trying to throw the ball at the DAGs. We have already been in cooperation with the regional authorities, so that the DAG, which knows the properties in the region, whether they remain in the owner or have changed borders, so that they can be provided with the forest directors and paid, as will be paid for by Christmas, all those involved in the reforestation, distribution, concessions. Evacuations with permission. Acknowledgement from the Forests Directorate can be paid by the OPEKEPE. Unlicensed evacuations are regulated by the Forest Code. As the RIS has said, Mrs Arabatzis, as far as subsidies are concerned - I repeat, I can present it - and I read it out to you, so as not to create panic for farmers and farmers, it does not affect the continuation of subsidies the task of ratifying forest maps if citizens use the institutionalised tools created for this purpose. You'll tell me: there was a delay. Yeah. However, the fact that some of the AOCs did not send, as they were due, is why the head of the Ministry of Rural Development was responsible? For the pastures, I'll say in my denture. In no way are farmers affected - although you do not mention it and do well to do so - by forest maps, because land use does not concern the forest map. It could be a forest and it could be a pasture. It is therefore not about the aid received by farmers from forest maps. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] More for the pastures, I'll tell my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u43	Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u44	Minister, no one questioned, and most importantly the New Democracy, that the suspension of forest maps was an obligation of our country. After all, it started on our day. But we question the way you have made these statements and the consequences that farmers experience in their everyday lives and in their pockets. What do you mean? What you say, Minister, we have told you by way of an amendment, which I will table in the Minutes, about the cultivated areas, in advance of 1975, for which these people have the legal title of the Greek State, these people not to put them in the cost-effective process to prove that their land belongs, to land for which they have been taxed, they have paid ENPI, they have the titles of the Greek State. It was so simple, Minister! But don't tell me again about those who made the objections, that is, they paid the topographer, who did all the procedures. They were not paid, because they suddenly found your Ministry, two years later, an administrative impossibility to control these objections and eventually even to leave the opposition unpaid. And of course, Minister, not to mention the fact that those who objected, who are now - by chance, I will say - paid, have the Axle of OPECE to retreat, which says that if their objections are rejected in favour of the Greek State, they will be forced to repay the sums of subsidies as wrongly paid. Minister, you said the Ministry of Rural Development was single. I imagine that he has a follow-up, because what I'm saying here, Minister, I'm not just saying it myself. Unfortunately, your predecessor, the longest-lived Minister for Rural Development, Mr Vangelis Apostolos, says about you, in an interview at the "Vangelis Apostolos" which, of course, found the time to grant and say the dangers 20 days after he was removed from the Ministry of Rural Development, the Minister who, through parliamentary control and the questions of all Members, confirmed that all subsidies are guaranteed and supported by the rural world. So what does the former Minister say? It says that 60% of land, from 1/3 that has been planted, has been designated as forests and therefore, there is a problem and the current leadership should ensure in every way that we do not lose a single euro of Community subsidies. It also says that we need to do this, because our country is in front of the critical negotiations on the new common agricultural policy and, of course, the always threat to the Visegrad countries for the absolute external convening of structural aid, a scenario particularly unfavourable to our country. Mr. Minister says that, Mr. Apostle. And he urged you on 20 September to take a legislative initiative to suspend all these procedures, so that farmers would normally be paid. Is that something you or Mr. Arachovitis have to answer, where is the person responsible? As regards, then, Minister, our way to the new common agricultural policy, the question for farmers is not that they are now losing subsidies, that they are not paid this year and will obviously not be paid in time, when, of course, your government will have abstained. The point is that, with your irresponsibility, we are going to negotiate the critical dossier of the new CFP that is vulnerable to our eligible areas. And why are we vulnerable, Minister? Because, first of all, you are making these irresponsibles by reducing the forest maps and, of course, because you have not succeeded in finally making the final grazing plans, the neo-responsibility we as the Government of yours for the Community's multiplication of the eligible areas of the country from the seventeen to twenty-five million acres. You as a Ministry, the first legislative initiative you have taken, was to change by two years the drafting of the final grazing plans, effectively jeopardising the rights of Greek farmers and farmers for the new common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u45	Mrs. Arabatzis, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. You know that by 2020, Minister, we must, in accordance with the regulation, give the definitive plans. You haven't done the temporary either. So tell us about double-fashioned farmers and farmers on one of the forest maps, on the other hand, but on the other hand, when you will finally complete them. And tell us with a certain timetable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. It's very easy to launch opposition lines. But let's see things with coolness and cleanness so that people can draw their conclusions. What is a forest, what a pasture should have been established for many years in our country. It was defined in 2017 with the forest maps. And the Opposition comes and says: 'Yes, we agree, but the way you do it...'. Sure, Mrs. Arabatzis, there were bureaucratic problems. No one wants to say there are still no pathogens that have existed for so many years. But it is certain - and this must also be understood by the farmer and the farmer - that we must in our country inspire rules of good administration and confidence in the citizen. The forest maps were uploaded with problems that go beyond them. As far as aid for agricultural property is concerned, nowhere does the law separate with date 1975-1965. As far as reafforestation is concerned, concessions and distribution are concerned, there is no risk of subsidies in any way.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u49	Thirty-five thousand were not paid, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u50	And they will be paid again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u51	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u52	As regards pastures, the law that defined pastures is n.4351/2015. The specifications and content of the grazing plans have been established.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u53	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u54	Who was that law passed by?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u55	Don't have a dialogue. It's already gone too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u56	It's a rhetorical question. It would be a good question to know some things. I'm not talking about you. I have also seen it from other Members. The drafting of the management plans is the sole responsibility of the regions, of which thirteen, only five have sent all the data to the Ministry of Rural Development. The Programming Convention provides for in Articles 6 and 7 of Law4351/2015 who is responsible for drawing up grazing plans. The Ministry of Rural Development shall be responsible for the planning contract of the Ministry and regions. At the moment the only regions that are almost ready are Epirus and Thessaly Region. Those who listen to us, if they read the law, will wonder who is responsible for the studies of grazing management plans: will the Ministry of Rural Development or the regions? I repeat that many regions in 2017 have declared weakness at technical level and we are helping. Only thirteen of them have sent evidence. Epirus and Thessaly are almost ready to draw up the programming contracts with the Ministry of Rural Development. So when the regions send the management grazing plans to the Ministry, then ask a question and say: 'Why, Undersecretary, do you not sign the programme contract of the region's grazing plan with the Ministry of Crete so that you can tell the farmers'? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House organises and operates twenty-five students and students and two teachers from the 1st Kallitheas General High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the second with number 133/6-11-2018, a topical question from the Member of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct solution to the problem you yourself have created and do not carry out tests to obtain a driving licence". The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, there have been no tests for qualifications and behaviour of drivers who want to upgrade or renew the diploma or candidates who want to obtain a diploma. The problem is repeated after a long time. In May we again had mobilizations for both examiners and trainers. They took the assurance that in the next few days a bill will be tabled and suspended the mobilisations, but the problem continues. The examiners are seven months unpaid. Many unemployed, who have a licence, a driving licence, are looking for work and wanting to work in this area, but they cannot once the tests are not carried out. Of course, there are many categories of drivers and candidates. What we are asking for is, at last, the Ministry to give a solution to this issue. We have tabled an amendment in May 2018 and October 3, 2018. This amendment, in our view, can provide a solution for the transitional period and the procedure for the examination of drivers and candidates must be followed up unnecessarily. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u59	And I'm for your time. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I do not think there is any omission or any miserable energy on the part of the government. I believe that it is a common place for us and for you, that the existing system of examination for driving licences is a perforated system, a system which in first contact our children come with the Greek state puts them in logic that we want as a society to put aside. I therefore believe that the effort we have made all this time, namely to move forward with a new draft law on changing driving licences, is in agreement with you. As far as mobilisation is concerned, it is not because they have not been paid up, because monthly compensation is provided for the examinations. In May an amendment was tabled that covered them retroactively and sent out in writing a series of circulars and assurances from the Secretary-General of Transport that the amendment you tabled - I have told you too - is in the draft law to be tabled in Parliament. The draft law has been drawn up in the Central Legislative Committee and immediately - and when I say immediately tomorrow or tomorrow - it will be tabled in the House for discussion and vote. Of course, I would like to say two things, ending my first speech. As far as mobilisation is concerned, following the assurances and the ongoing dialogue we have had, one association has suspended the mobilisations while the other is continuing. I believe, however, that both some training clubs and some examiners want to continue the absurdity of being in the same car and the representative of the school drivers and the examiner, with the well-known phenomena that the entire Greek society has experienced in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u62	Modernising legislation, technology equipment and procedures relating to various public procedures should not lead us to suspend the operation of existing systems with the improvements they need. I think that you have had the opportunity for three, at least, years - perhaps more - as the Minister responsible has given you a solution to these specific issues, according to which you believe in them. You could have tabled the bill, brought your views and suggestions to the Greek Parliament and proceeded. No one has a say in this. We'll tell our specific positions when the bill is submitted. But what are you doing? Because you're bringing the bill, you're letting the system get rid of it. You have devalued the system only in the way you manage it. We are therefore saying, since May, that you will be able to carry out an examination of the system inconsistently, and of course you will bring the improvements. That is our view. You said today that it would be in the draft transitional provision. It cannot be, because in order to implement a system entirely differently, it takes a transitional period which is too important. I think that makes sense. I haven't seen the bill. We don't know that. In this transitional period, therefore, this amendment should have been institutionalised and allowed the margin in the transitional period for the infrastructure to be prepared and everything else. On the subject that many people raise about the mobilisations, first of all, the Ministry of Macedonia was closed on Friday. Today and tomorrow, the mobilisations will continue, unless they accept the assurance you are giving today and suspend them. I have to accept it. Of course, in May, when I called you on the amendment, you told me again that it would be tabled in a week.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u63	October.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u64	Yeah. We have a continuous postponement of the matter. Examinations, however, are not done independently of the mobilisations. The examinations must be carried out in the morning and afternoon. And morning for the workers of the afternoon or those who don't work and the workers in the morning. When we force people to give up their work to go to exams either in the morning or in the afternoon, it's wrong. You'll need to find a system in the morning and afternoon. Many have told me that you are considering privatising the system. If with a block, as they say, you want to legislate and baptize "examiners" or any other non-public officials, then the system suffers in advance. We'll see all the improvements here. We will help to improve, modernise the system, because at times these issues have been discussed in the public debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u66	But now we need a solution for the transitional period in order to carry out the tests. If the bill is delayed, you will have to accept our amendment, we will have to table it again in order for the system to function. I believe that the transitional period will last for at least six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u67	It's understandable, Mr. Kegeroglu. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u68	I had time from the beginning, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u69	Okay. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u70	In October I told you this in the Transport Ministry's bill and not in May. Mr. Kegeroglu, let's see who's deceived the system. I have an official, if you like, briefing from the Greek police. I won't testify. He's in the D.A. I'll show it to you if you want. It's about two corruption circuits found all over Greece. One is 15 people and another twenty-five people. There was a third case, which is being investigated in Athens. Therefore, the system - each citizen knows - is not deported, but something even worse than deported. I wish it was just deported. And the tragic results are experienced every day by accidents on the roads - not on the national roads now - in our cities. Let's see what we've done. Obviously, we've been to another logic than the one that existed. We have created educational material for all grades of primary school, programs to train students, our youth, to train examiners, to be able, anyway, to avoid all this bad situation that we have in the country and which has very great pain, very high social costs. Mr. Kaklamanis is a doctor and can testify his own experiences from what Greek society experiences from road safety. The second is a project which no longer allows for infringement of driving licences. And it is terrible for some to accuse us of being detained and suddenly presented, and the draft law is well known, that we are going to privatise the system. Obviously they are with public servants, but public servants will have exclusive activity for licences. It'll be a draw, he'll be in the addresses. It won't be a pass where driver schools know who the examiners are to make everything we're experiencing. There will be electronic systems that will centrally monitor the driving licence system and a number of forecasts that we will discuss in the draft law. I believe that the draft law is in the common political direction and effort. Obviously, we're not going to any privatisation. This was what some of the driver schools wanted, to be the process of obtaining a driving licence, something that will be certified privately. It's out of our minds. Let me show you the police report. There's no need to have the tests for the driver's license. There is no need to have a compensation that will be distributed regardless of who is doing and who is involved in the tests and who is not. There is a rational system for what you said, to cover the morning or afternoon examinations by experts, by examiners who will in fact have specifications. Today, Mr Kegeroglu, the examiners do not even have the permission to drive for examiners. That's tragic, but that's the way it is. They do not in fact have the category of driving licence for examiners. I therefore believe that it is a joint effort by the political world to go to another logic in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u71	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 12 October 2018, Monday 15 October 2018, Thursday 18 October 2018 and Friday 19 October 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u72	The minutes of Friday 12 October 2018, Monday 15 October 2018, Thursday 18 October 2018 and Friday 19 October 2018 were therefore validated. Listen, please, the secretaries of the parliamentary groups, the time is 10.50 ́. I am going to take a ten-minute break, and at 11 a.m. the meeting begins again and all the rapporteurs must be notified. They're the first two here, but I can't start the meeting. Mr Antoniou and Mr Giannakis are consistent. At 11:00, please be all in the Chamber to start. We interrupt the meeting for 10 minutes (10 minutes) and then enter the additional specific agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the supplementary SPECIFIC MATTER PROTECTION Parliament's decisions - Financial management: a. Only discussion and approval of the Expenditure Report of the Parliament for the financial year 2017. b. Only debate and vote of Parliament's Budget Expenditure Plan for the financial year 2019. Parliament's decisions were voted on in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy by a majority of its members. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 108(1) and (6), they may be voted on by the House without a debate. I suggest, however, that, if they wish, the rapporteurs and the special speakers speak for five minutes, if they want to do so, the Parliamentary representatives for five minutes and the Members who may sign up electronically for five minutes. Does the House agree with the procedure I propose?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u74	So the House unanimously agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theories of fifteen students and students and a trainer from the 7th Agia Barbara Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall, if we so wish, start with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Antony. You can speak either from Step or from your position. Mr. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the Parliament's expenditure statement for 2017, as well as the expenditure budget for the following year 2019. Parliament's budget for 2019 aims to ensure the more efficient functioning of the Parliament and to provide an even higher level of services to MPs and citizens. The 2019 budget amounts to EUR 141.850,000 and is increased by EUR 7 865 000 compared to that of 2018, i.e. an increase of 5.84%. It should be noted that the 2019 budget is the first budget to be drawn up in conditions of exit from the financial support programmes and signals the transition of the country to a new era, characterised by sustainable development and a balanced combination of budgetary sovereignty and discipline. The Parliament's budget since 2009, amounting to EUR 222,000, has been reduced to EUR 134,000 in the year 2018, and this year, for the reasons I will describe below, is increasing by 5.8% and is being formed at EUR 142,000. The 2019 budget is borne by the cost of covering seventeen vacancies of scientific staff by means of an imminent SAPA competition, for the first time after several years, from the forecast increase by 50% of the employer contribution in favour of the Single Main Insurance Body, EFKA, MPs and Officials of the Parliament, by the change in the payroll of ELAS officials. and, in particular, from the high operating costs of the Special Committee on Asset Statement Control, due to a large increase in the number of persons controlled, while carrying out retrospective checks for 2015 and 2016 on the basis of the application of Law 4571/2018. In summary, the budget contains four major categories of codes. First, code ‘ Payments for Services’, second, code ‘ Payments for Goods and Capital Equipment’, third, ‘ Payments for Transitionals’ and fourth, ‘Taxes not included in other categories’. The first category includes appropriations for parliamentary allowances. I should like to point out here that parliamentary compensation in recent years has fallen by over 40% and that Greek Members have now been fully harmonized with taxation and insurance with all Greek workers. The appropriations for the remuneration of political officials of the Parliament - permanent, post-mortem and fixed-term work - are included as well as contributions to the ECA for their insurance and care. Thirdly, the appropriations for the remuneration of the scientific associates of Members of Parliament, students, public schools engaged in the profession, officials with a fixed-term employment relationship, and their insurance contributions and additional benefits for all staff in subcategory 2 and subcategory 3 are included. I would like to point out that this budget includes the payment of cleaners working in the House, as the system with contractors has been replaced at a lower cost and, moreover, 15 people are employed by vulnerable social groups. It also bears the internal and external travel credits, the other services credits, including rent, postal charges, etc. In the category, and I am making a very quick list, Mr President, because the five-minute time is probably a bit short.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u76	Okay, there's gonna be a little tolerance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u77	The total of the first category is EUR 134.056. Category b includes credits for the supply of equipment, laboratories, books, magazines, second, credits for the supply of health and pharmaceutical materials, credits for the supply of maintenance and repair of electrical installations, supplies of fuel, heating, etc. This category amounts to 3,191,000 euros. Category (c) includes expenditure, the contribution of the House to social security organizations and accounts, the grants of the Parliament to legal persons under private law, contributions to various interparliamentary organisations, assistance to natural persons, support for children of fallen officers of the Armed Forces, the Greek Police, the Fire Corps who lost their lives in the performance of their duties. The budget is EUR 4,503,000. Category (d) includes the reserve of EUR 100,000. Budget expenditure was proposed by the competent services of Parliament and after processing the financial services were approved by the institutions, taking into account Parliament's further contribution to the overall effort to save budgetary resources and rationalise the government's operating expenditure on the basis of the principles of sound financial management, openness, transparency and accountability. In particular, for staff remuneration expenditure it is noted that these were budgeted in accordance with the provisions of Rules 94-95 and 164 IV of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, Part II Personnel, for the harmonisation with Law No.4354/2015 on a single salary, the provisions of the Insurance Law for Members, Workers, Scientific Associates, etc. I have made a reference to where they are increasing and where expenditure on the 2018 budget is being reduced, but it seems that time is not enough. I would also like to note for the multi-faceted work carried out in Parliament in recent years and for the projects co-financed and carried out through European programmes such as the Benaque building, the Jewish Museum, the organisation and promotion of the archives of the parliamentary work, the replacement of cameras and robotic systems in the Chamber of Parliament. Also, in cooperation with the European and Other Appropriations Office, significant funds have been allocated to the House's Plenary Assembly for subsidising migration policy, amounting to 5 million euros, for assisting the East Attica firemen with a contribution of 10 million euros, for the Museum of National Resistance in the Koyschadas in Vienna and for assisting the House in the flooding with also a million euros. It is also attached for approval and the expenditure statement of 2017, where we do not have significant variations in relation to the forecasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. The rapporteur, Mr Stergios Giannakis, has the floor. Here, Mr Giannakis, you have the floor, with relative tolerance, too, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is only natural that when Parliament's budget is being discussed each year, the question of the cost of democracy should be raised with general political remarks and doubts, with newspaper titles and deceptive articles on Parliament's costs. The fact that this debate has been going on for years and has been intensified in the years of the crisis for obvious reasons is also due to the fact that we too as a political world have not been able to inform citizens with facts, honesty and arguments. So they find space for opinions and ideas from spaces that for their own reasons plundering the reality, create impressions and ultimately despise our political system. The House is an institution here and around the world and as such must be dealt with. The first to protect the prestige of the institution is us Members. I would like to point out this because, unfortunately, we have many examples of populism and inexpensive pluralism in this Chamber, which will certainly be intensified in the coming months in the course of the national elections. We first have a duty to bear the burden of responsibility and our obligation to ensure full transparency in our pay, our activities and the general management of our budget, which is the money of the Greek people. This is the only way to increase our credibility by acting. It should be made clear, for example, that in the years of the crisis, the reduction in Parliament's budget has exceeded 40% and, as far as Members' salaries are concerned, the reduction has exceeded 45%. The 2015 budget - the Samara government - decreased compared to 37% in 2009, from EUR 222,140,000 in 2009 to EUR 139,922,000 in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the Parliament's expenditure statement for the financial year 2017 and the Parliament's draft expenditure budget for 2019. As far as the accounting data are concerned, we find that the budget has been implemented faithfully and that a reduction in the Parliament's budget by 85,400 euros has been recorded, some of which have been returned to the General Accounting Office, initially of EUR 1,600 and, secondly, the sum of EUR 4,528. We have no particular references or comments in relation to the accounts. As far as the 2019 budget is concerned, we have two comments to make: it is the second budget with increased forecasts. Let me remind you that last year's budget, 2018, was increased by 1 million compared with the previous one. The budget to be voted on for 2019 is obviously increased by EUR 7 865 000 compared to the previous one, 2018, reaching a total of EUR 141.850,000 compared to EUR 133.985 000 in 2018. Of course, the majority rapporteur was also detailed when it comes to justifying additional costs, detailing the objectives of this project. Also, what I would like to note is that you miserably combine the planned increase with the supposed exit from the financial support programmes, because everyone knows the tragic situation of the Greek economy, everyone knows the increased supervision, the atrocious surpluses that we have to achieve by 2060, which entails the stay of the Greek society in permanent stifling austerity tunnels. In any case, we all want a Parliament budget that ensures the efficient operation of Parliament, the optimum provision of services, both for Members and for citizens and for society. In this sense, the budget in question is used every time with the prerequisites, of course, of sound, prudent and transparent management, the reduction of unnecessary costs and the reduction as far as possible of the operating costs of the Parliament. It should also be noted that, essentially, the auditing of the Parliament's finances is carried out on a daily basis through the relevant platform - 'Transparency' - by all, mainly by journalists and by society. It enters their microscope and the public debate of every line. To conclude, it would be negligence on my part if I did not express both my personal thanks and the New Democracy for the impeccable service we enjoy from all the employees in this House who are systematically struggling to transfer their experience and to meet the increasing demands of our Parliament. With work and esteem, it is always next to us what we need to carry out our duties. Thank you, honestly. Finally, regardless of some individual objections to specific codes, we as a New Democracy vote positively both the 2017 budget and the 2019 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u80	And I just want to remind you that only the roof, if I remember well, cost 1,300,000 euros. So the 1 million is fully justified, so the journalists can hear it. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every time we talk about the budget of this House, the debate is necessarily revolved around the cost of democracy. It happens that this debate coincides with the first day of the three-day celebration of the Polytechnic anniversary. All our memories come the struggles of those who have even given their blood to operate our democracy and the representative parliamentary system, for which we are here today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that our democracy and problems have many enemies. We see it every day. That is why its management must be both simple and transparent, because those we represent experience difficult situations and are suspicious. The unreliability of citizens towards the political system is increased. Therefore, we must say very clearly that democracy has a cost and that other states, which may not have any cost, do not have the prerogatives of democracy. And we can make a comparison of the progress made by the peoples of democracy with the peoples of authoritarianism and other regimes. Does that mean we have to have waste? On the contrary. We must constantly seek to reduce expenditure to the limits which allow the parliamentary system to function effectively. That is why the reduction in expenditure is finite. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010 the Greek Parliament set an example in a climate of intense problems faced by our people in view of the range of major deficits and the risk of bankruptcy, making difficult decisions, which led to the reduction of Parliament's expenditure, from EUR 222 million in 2009 to EUR 134 million in 2018, i.e. 39.63% -40%. And we must all know that the people also know that the large part of this reduction comes from the reduction of more than 45% of the salaries and benefits of Members in general. In order to have a size class, citizens should know that from the total budget expenditure, which is EUR 57.6 billion for 2019, the 141 million that Parliament will cost, i.e. the operation of the political system, is 0.25%, in fact 0.248%, that is to say in 100 minutes the operation of democracy costs 2.5 minutes. It's one of the lowest costs in the entire Western democratic world. And I would like to point out that this reduction is far greater than the fall in GDP by 27% of GDP - I use the official elements of the government's holistic programme - during the period of crisis, much greater than the reduction in the expenditure that contributed to the balance-of-payments rationalisation. Lack and surplus, because we had a budget adjustment of 67 billion, 36.5% of GDP, 20% of which is expenditure, 16.5% of which is revenue, a 40% reduction in Parliament's expenditure. It is much greater than the overall reduction in expenditure. Therefore, I believe that we have done enough - not everything that might be possible - to adapt. And, of course, this debate is not over, because it comes back around privileges and other things, which people may not know that they are not in force or that they have been abolished, that is, that there is no parliamentary pension, that there is no tax-free...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u82	Neither retrospectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u83	And much more, it comes back in an unscrupulous, too many times, in a way, because this debate is causing. Some people remembered the retrospective the other day. Retrospectives don't exist. It's obvious. The right of every citizen to go to court exists. Retrospectively, however, the House has not voted, it is clear. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take one more minute. And, of course, the cost reduction debate also comes with other populist approaches. Reduce - says - the number of MPs in two hundred. One hundred and fifty, I say, a hundred. The representativeness of the Greek countryside, our islands, the mountainous tumors, has anyone thought about it? In other words, where will this inflation of populism, which is a test of the functioning of the political system as a whole? This is the financial place. There is also the part of the transparency to which I have referred and I believe that much has been done: there is the clarity of this House, there is a public debate here in the budget, we must go further. Mrs Gennamas yesterday tabled a series of proposals for further strengthening transparency in the functioning of the political system and in the economic functioning of the parties. I think that if this process moves forward, because I see it very much integrated into party strategies, we could discuss it and do it. So, to finish, the majority rapporteur said the figures. I agree, that's the way it is. However, I would just like to make two comments: My first point concerns the preamble to the budget, which refers to the financial environment after leaving the country from the memoranda. Typically yes, the commitments exist and we experience them. My second point is that for the first time the Parliament's budget has an increase in expenditure, for the first time in the period of crisis following the significant reductions. Why is the increase in expenditure due? We have to say that. It is because of the costs that the House will bear in mind to control the thousands of cases 'wherever you are concerned'. The House no longer handles with the judges who make up the respective committee the five hundred and six hundred MPs and former parliamentarians, and so on, it will deal with thousands of cases and is therefore charged with a very large cost which does not refer to the functioning of the political system. It is a cost to operate more generally in our democracy, which must have transparency and control everywhere for everyone and everything. With this in mind, we will be voting in favour, as I have said in the committee, in the budget and in the balance sheet. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. We proceed with the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Evangelos Karakostas. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u85	In today's debate on the adoption of the statement on Parliament's expenditure for the financial year 2017 and the vote on the draft budget of expenditure for the financial year 2019, the Golden Dawn comes and participates in a position that I would characterise as privileged. It is privileged because it is the only party in the House that does not receive any euros of state funding with an anti-constitutional decision taken by the House itself. We are therefore able to study and apply our criticism of the 2017 cost statement and of the draft expenditure plan for 2019, as the only party that is maintained solely by the contributions of MPs and its members, contrary to the rest of the House, who share the unpredictable state funding for the data of the time. I referred to the above, to conclude in all directions that the criticism by the people's nationalist movement of Parliament's expenditure is a criticism of substance and not of impression. And, of course, it's not safe. In our view, if you wish, in our view, Parliament's expenditure for 2017 and the budget for 2019 should only be compared to those for the past few years. They should necessarily be judged on the basis of the existing economic and social conditions in the broad folk layers. In this light, then, the Golden Dawn - I repeat, the only political party that does not receive any euro-funding - considers expenditure for both 2017 and 2019 as excessive and thus provocative for poverty in which we live a very large part of our compatriots. That is why the Golden Dawn cannot participate in this deception operation of public opinion, as the other parties do, claiming that they have contributed and contributed to the cost reduction, because it is simply not enough to limit this expenditure to what we necessarily call the necessary amount. In fact, at the same time, during which the parties to the government pretend that they are going far beyond Parliament's expenditure, the Office of the State Budget in Parliament presents information from the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which demonstrates the dramatic deterioration in the economic situation of thousands of Greek households in September. According to this, taxes of around EUR 350,000 000 have not been paid in September, which means that more than half a million of our compatriots have been unable to meet their tax obligations, and in particular those obligations of paying the first instalment for real estate tax, the famous ENPI - which is supposed to be abolished by SYRIZA - and of course the second instalment of income tax. Characteristic of the current heavy situation for Greek households is the fact that all outstanding debts at the end of the third quarter of 2018 are close to 8,000,000 euros. At the end of September, the number of debtors was four million three hundred twelve thousand ninety-five, increasing by nearly six hundred thousand compared to the month of August, when the number of debtors was three million eight hundred one thousand nine hundred sixty-seven. The total amount of outstanding debts is EUR 103.09 billion, i.e. the unrealistic 57.2% of GDP. In these circumstances, therefore, conditions which are contrary to those described fraudulently by the Government in relation to the so-called memorial period, the Golden Dawn is not going to vote neither on the statement of expenditure for 2017 nor, of course, the budget for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u86	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Because the rapporteur for the Democratic Partnership has tried to suit the ideals and struggles of the generation of the Polytechnic in the context of urban democracy, we say that these struggles are not convenient, they do not fit in the costume of urban democracy. These games, ideals and visions are being fought under the iron heel of the system. Besides, the slogans did not find justice to urban democracy, but are still very topical today, the slogans of the generation of the Polytechnics, which Greece is turning into a signer of American designs in the region, escalating the anti-grass attack, in the name of armoring the profitability of capital, in the name of the armor of the rotting exploitation system. So the vindication of the struggles of the generation of the Polytechnic and today's generation of the working class and its youth is the struggle to overthrow the bourgeois power, the dictatorship of capital. Coming now to the debate on the Parliament's budget for 2019, it is clear - it is also written in the rapporteur's report - that it is part of the state budget or otherwise it will be included in the state budget. The expenditure and the budget, revenue and expenditure of the House are adapted and incorporated into the medium-term budgetary planning and could not be otherwise, since the House itself, as the legislative body of the civil system, legislates the whole of the anti-grassroots measures and laws and the previous years, but also today, anti-grassroots measures that mark the life of the working class, the youth and the public strata. So the next day, which the government celebrates, but also within Parliament's budget, you write 'after leaving the memoranda', will not be a day for restoring the enormous losses that were suffered by the workers, the rest of the populace, but a day marked by a policy that continues the anti-grass attack and escalates it, both in the context of budgetary discipline and bloody primary surpluses until at least 2060, and more in the effort to create a liberalized labour market, a working jungle, in order to shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, which are overall in the programme of capitalist restructuring implemented by the current government and are trying to create a more favourable environment for the action of capital. It is a policy which, after the typical end of the memoranda, sacrifices the satisfaction of the people's needs in the altar of competitiveness of business groups and profitability. So Parliament's budget is also adapted to it. There is no difference in relation to the past, as far as the basic sizes relating to the level of living of workers are concerned. From this point of view, therefore, we are clearly saying that the restoration of the huge losses which workers have accepted, not only of the House, but of the total working class of our country and of the rest of the folk layers, must be a point of departure for the struggles which have been unfolded over the period and which are going to escalate even further, in order to restore the losses, against the anti-competitive laws that crack down on payroll rights in the context of the single payroll, against the insurance laws of Katragalos, which unleash the public and social security character of the insurance, to improve the position, but, above all, to overthrow this situation, through a struggle, which will form new people's and folk institutions, which popular representatives will be elected by the workplaces, to be accountable, accountable and recalled by those who have chosen, without particular care, for the benefit of human and economic resources, for the benefit of the development of the human and economic resources that will be exploited. In this context, Mr President, the JRC will vote 'white' for the Parliament budget for 2019, but also for the 2017 budget, as a political vote and not for matters - we do not open up any such issue - relating to how expenditure took place for 2017. That is why we shall vote 'white' on both texts, both in the budget and in the balance sheet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory forty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Kalitheas General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the special speaker from the Independent Greeks, Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Following yesterday's debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in which a comprehensive reference was made to the individual codes and expenditure included in the budget for the financial year 2019, we are today voting both on the Parliament's expenditure statement for the financial year 2017 and on the draft budget for the Parliament for the financial year 2019. The House maintained the high level of services provided, without any discounts, despite the multiple overheads that it had to incorporate in the budgets of at least the last eight years. For this development we must be proud, I believe, because not just because the entire operation of the Greek Parliament has not been negatively affected in recent years, but instead it has remained in close contact with the modern requirements of the time, upgrading the logistics infrastructure. As far as Parliament's expenditure items for the financial year 2019 are concerned, it is now well known that this is the first budget drawn up without any restrictions, without external pressure. In addition, the reduction in expenditure, which has applied to all the economic activities of the country throughout the territory over the last eight years, has also been applicable to the budgets drawn up for the operation of our national Parliament. The reduction of Parliament's expenditure by 40% from 2009 until last year proves the truth and demonstrates, at the same time, the sharing of responsibilities and the disseminating of the adjustment measures, which have been implemented consistently and methodically, in order to lead the country to the clearing. Since the 222 million euros the 2009 Parliament budget has reached 134 million euros in 2018, and in 2019 the budget is set at 142 million euros. So at the moment that Greece has left behind the economic derailment and has returned to a stable orbit, this very course that our national economy has now drawn up is also reflected in the financial figures relating to Parliament's expenditure. We must also be pleased with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents to provide financial aid to the firefighters, as announced by President Voutsi, through the allocation of EUR 10 million from the Parliament's reserve. In any case, I think that the increase in the 2019 budget by 5,87% compared to last year is sufficiently justified, taking into account the burdens of the planned 50% increase in the employer's contribution to the EPC, the change in the mandate's special salary, the high operating costs of the Special Office of Assurance Control and the cost of covering seventeen vacancies of scientific staff, on the basis of an impending invitation to tender for the planned PSC. Following on from all this and, finally, with the impending approval of the Parliament's expenditure statement for the financial year 2017, I would only like to stress that the EUR 133 million allocated to the Parliament with the budget for the financial year 2017 is less than EUR 3 million, namely EUR 3,031,000, in relation to the 2016 budget. In this climate, the Greek Parliament continues its function uninterruptedly and remains at the disposal of its citizens, maintaining open channels for communication and social control. I believe in the usefulness of the publicity of Parliament's finances, with regard to the possibility given to Greek citizens for continuous information and their right to exercise free social control, having access to data and data which are communicated to a continuous flow through the portal, i.e. Parliamentary Transparency. Through this mechanism of free access to information on the economic activities of the broader parliamentary environment, the transparency of operations is first and foremost established and, at the same time, I believe, a new concept of managing public resources with an emphasis on control and accountability is reflected in the awareness of the many. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The fact that the citizens are given this opportunity to be made more fully aware of Parliament's work, its management and administration, the preparation and implementation of its budget, its supplies and the issues relating to its staff have, I believe, an inevitable positive social impact, which leads to the strengthening of its own democratic governance. Before closing, Mr President, I would like to express my warm thanks to the staff of the Greek Parliament for the high level of services it provides and continues to offer, despite the difficulties and adverse circumstances it has been facing, as a result of a reduction in Parliament's budgets in recent years. We are therefore voting in favour of the 2019 budget and the 2017 statement, and I believe that things will evolve even better than the new year, on the basis of plans and programmes that are already successfully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. Mr. Lykoudis from Potami has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the report and the budget of this House - I want to continue Mr Koutsoukos' thought - on a day of particular, symbolic nature. That is how we have a symbolic debate here. It is the first day of celebrating the Polytechnic insurrection and beyond how one wants to capture the Polytechnic message in their historical dimensions, which one can have the alpha or beta opinion or the alpha or beta approach, no one can question that this uprising has opened the way to restart the heart of the Parliamentary Republic, which is the Greek Parliament. So when, today, on the first day of the uprising, we are discussing the ways in which the operation of the Greek Parliament is based, on purpose, it is a symbolism that is important in its dimensions for the functioning of democracy, and I would like to highlight this. A second general point. It has nothing to do with political abstractions or contempts, or with some obligation to hear a few good words about the staff of the House. This isn't about it. All of us who are working here as political officials of the Parliamentary Republic, without the specific friends and colleagues of this House, would be politically disabled in our work. It is unbelievable to help us by the officials of this Parliament, the officials and all the staff who are working alongside us for the operation of this Parliament. Now I would like to make a point first of all. The evidence we have before us is absolutely certain that it is seriously and responsibly processed. It is of no importance to look at whether at this point or at the other point it could appear 10,000 less or 20,000 more euros, because it does not have the potential for one of us to determine exactly the numbers and mechanisms that produce this statement and the budget. I can, however, make a political approach to the point, in particular, of how one considers expenditure. Because when it comes to expenditure reductions, no one has any objections, we are all in agreement. When we have a problem of raising expenditure, there may be crises. I would therefore like to make a comment on three points, both positive and negative. I believe that the increase in expenditure relating to the operation of the Foundation for Parliament and the Republic and the Canal of Parliament - I am not going to number, I am actually in favour of it, because someone has to say that and I feel the need to say it - perhaps they are perfectly justified on the substance. I believe that the Foundation for Parliamentary and Democracy produces excellent work. As long as I am in this House and what I have been experiencing lately in relation to the events it does, I believe it is doing excellent work in all respects. And in that sense it is well at the heart of the Parliament's budget, even with increased expenditure, which is likely to be needed. I would also like to say that, in my view, the Parliamentary channel does a very good job. And I am not talking about its very good policy, which - if you like - are the ones I am watching, less, apart from the plenary sittings I attend to see when it is my turn, or when it is my turn or when it is to go up to the Chair or listen to some friends, colleagues from my office. This isn't about it. The whole work done on the channel of Parliament has nothing to be jealous of other quality channels, if any. I'm talking about the rest of the part, about the part beyond politics. In this sense too, and if there is any increase in expenditure - I do not know how much it should be, it is the one that comes to us - I think it is coming if this work is to be strengthened. Where I have the objection is to the costs incurred in relation to the costs of electricity. I have seen an unrealistic use of air conditioners, Mr President, during the periods when we have them either to cool or to warm up. It is not rational to use. I see too many times an unreasonable use of air conditioners on empty offices, on empty corridors, in hours that you don't need. And it's not just the economy, save money, that is, from this story, but it's about climate, energy, all that should be at the heart of our interest. So I say that perhaps it would be the only point I would like to make a criticism of all of us so that we could be more careful. Because it's better to reduce this use for other reasons and not just because it's good to collect some costs so we don't waste them. In other words, I would also like to say on the basis of what I said that we are voting in favour of both the accounts and the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. If at the moment there are some people who have lived on November 17 and at that historic moment in as students, they are the present Mr. Voutsis, who was a student at that time, as is the President of the Centroon Association Mr. Leventis. They lived at those times and - if I am not mistaken, Mr President - it was at the same time. So let's not directly connect it to Parliament's budget. On the other hand, it is important to mention such facts. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that in this year's debate as the Centro Union it is to be able to curtail as much as possible or even to close the unnecessary expenditure in general, to the general public, and not just here in this House. And, unfortunately, we still believe that even today, when there are these committees' recommendations and general secretariats in every bill brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, it does not go in this direction of rationalisation, which relates in general to the state's finances. We have the same position on Parliament's expenditure. Although they have been reduced by 40% in recent years - as mentioned by many colleagues - we see in the rapporteur's report, in the fourth paragraph, that the 2019 budget is the first budget to be drawn up under conditions of exit from the financial support programme. This, heated, could mean that there are also some more financial resources for better financial management. We cannot explain the increase in appointments, which were seventy-six last year, and this year twenty-one, even though we have often discussed and been friendly in this regard. It concerns 'one to one'. I understand that, with the pensions that are available, these colleagues will have to be replaced. However, the number of officials in the House last year amounts to one thousand four hundred and sixty people, which is higher than in the New Democracy and PASOK period. But the most important thing is - and that is why I am making the reference, not because we do not need it and, if we need it, clearly move to further appointments - that on page 3 of last year's report it was said that, through the operation of the Electronic Document Movement system, a release of competent human resources is achieved. Nevertheless, we can see that the organogram has been increased. If there were no, in other words, this electronic resource trafficking, some people could be released and some other organic positions could be set aside, perhaps we would have to make more appointments. There is also the tradition that the first time compared with 2009, as we said, the Parliament's budget was increased by EUR 1,000 000. It is of course justified by the work we have done on the roof, which we welcome. Of course we should support this building. This year, however, this increase amounted to EUR 7,865,000 and the allocation was EUR 141,850,000. Of course there's a reason for that. One is the increase of the ECA, the recruitment contest via ASP, the Special Committee for the Audit of Assurance Statements. And this is where I want to stand. For this control, the House will pay in 2019 the very large amount of EUR 5.330,000, according to the code ‘0871’, i.e. almost seven times above the corresponding 2018 budget, which was only EUR 841 000. I understand that this check will also take place retrospectively. However, we must take care of this budget so that we do not get to the point of paying more money for the controls on Members' salaries than parliamentary allowances. Another point on which I would like to stand is overtime, which is EUR 9,805 000 or EUR 1,679,000 more than last year. There's an increase of about 21%. That, to me, suggests just one thing. In no case is the result of the reduced performance of the staff members, i.e. that they cannot carry out their duties within their time and are forced to sit above. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I will not need much time, Mr President. I'll finish. This means that there are repeated fast track bills, urgent and urgent, and that there is a bad government planning on these issues. And, unfortunately, I will mention a few months ago the Ben Hour Plenary, when the officials arrived at 9 a.m. in the morning, left at 5.00 p.m. on the morning of the next day, at the risk of their lives, and were forced to come back here at 9.00 a.m. We must take care of all these sensitive issues. I, too, have mentioned many times too much of the importance of the people who help. I would like to congratulate all the officials and colleagues here in this House. We are always on their side, something they know, and we thank them for what they offer us. As far as the channel of Parliament is concerned, I agree with what Mr Lykoudi said, as well as with those officials who are at risk of being unimmovable. We have to see what we are going to do for the officials working for the Parliament's channel, who are too many years old and are in danger of returning to the agencies or losing their jobs. More generally, there is, of course, the very positive fact that everything ranged from the 2017 budget and there were no excesses. The budget for 2019 shall be increased. We always act well and always our criticism is well-qualified and we are here to contribute to everything. As for what Mr Koutsoukos also says, I would like to mention the Portuguese example. So Portugal, with a larger population and a larger area, has thirty-three Members. So why should we in Greece not be able to have fewer Members doing this work? Why not take advantage of a Senate made up of the Members who are retired and retired and well retired? I say this even though we as the Central Association are in favour of abolishing the parliamentary pension, since there is no Members of this House. I understand that some...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u94	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u95	I'm talking about younger MPs, Mr. Kutsuko. Repealed from 2012 onwards. There are some older people who are retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u96	They've paid contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u97	All contributions have been paid, as we are now paying. If there are Members who were retired only from Parliament and not from their fund, we clearly have to do something for them Members and take a pension. But if there are double pensions from both their fund and from the House, you can understand that this is provocative on our part. Or at least take advantage of them, through the Senate and through their offer, so that we can reduce the costs in general if the Members are reduced. That's our proposal. I do not believe that you all necessarily agree on this. One proposal of ours is how we can further reduce Parliament's expenditure. Regardless of all this, I would like to say congratulations on all the work you are doing. You are one of the Presidents who is consensual, his door is always open and we thank you for being here to help us all, to be able to come closer and to come together. We are positive and said that we are voting in favour of both the balance sheet and the budget for next year. We are here to discuss any new idea of even better economic management, not only of the House, but also of further State. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u98	So do we. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikos Voutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, this annual procedure gives us the opportunity to communicate to the public a number of elements relating to the functioning of the House. This is not only our obligation, but it is also a very good thing, so that an opinion on the economics - and not just - can be formed on the operational and other issues of this House. I would like to begin by appreciating the very good positions of most of my fellow Members who, with understanding and consent, have seen the detailed situations which have been made known in time and which help, like almost all the parties within this House, to continue the work of the House. Most of all, however, I would like to begin by presenting my appreciation for the excellent work, for the work carried out by the services, the directors-general, the directors-general, the directors-general, the directors-general, not just the financial services of the Parliament - because that ends up with the things - but all the services that have a first check, the first programming and the first contributions, both for the processing and implementation of the budget, but also for the organisation of the next year's budget debate. And they are the result of their own recommendations, this issue that has come. However, the good impression of the House - and not only - is due to the fact that they are doing an excellent job, absolutely transparent, both in the context of saving resources, but also in the use of all the possibilities that this House gives. I really thank them for all of us, on behalf of all the Members. We, men and women, are passive here. As far as you are concerned, men and women, who are permanent here, thank you very much for your work. And I have the opportunity publicly to say a few things, which might be self-evident, but they must be presented. Firstly, it must be known that all expenditure from the first euro is being controlled in the House. This must be known. Therefore, it does not fit any kind of populism or any questions that may be put publicly in relation to Parliament's finances. In other words, in spite of the legislation which has now put the burden on the repressive control, there is control over all costs and from the first euro. There is the Court of Auditors, which has a full picture and control regarding both Parliament and the legal person of private law, which is the Foundation for Parliament and the Republic. I should also like to tell you that, not only theoretically but also institutionally, the economic autonomy of the House as the foundation, as a pillar of its constitutional autonomy in relation to the separation of powers and the possibility of defining its own house. It has been established not in a way arbitrary or manipulative, that is, we are deciding and ordering, but that in recent years this guarantee has been absolutely in the context of the common financial management, to be entirely on the basis of all the agreements that have been made with the European Union and the other bodies on the way in which public finances operate. With the view of the General Accounting Office of the State for all expenditure and the wider public sector, that is to say, that it is only for the House that it is this, so that through a special code to the Bank of Greece all payments and transactions are made, which is fully implemented through e-government with the public finances of the country. Like all the others, the implementation of the medium-term, the implementation of all the other aspects relating to public money management are seized and respected by Parliament and its management, as part of this special and autonomous management, which, I repeat, is one plus, is nothing different, is not a show of arbitraryness, but is an enhanced presence of the Parliament's entity. I think it is very important, because the House, in the context of the whole economic situation, slowly forms a pillar of good management and transparency. Instead of being a black hole or a gray region for public finances, it is contrary, in the way it operates at all levels, to a pillar that strengthens the image and the country's mood and obligation to function properly at all levels in relation to economics. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no need here in the debate we are going to have in talking about the budget to talk about whether the country has come out and what commitments, permanently, non-permanently from the memorandum, what 21st August, etc. That's what I'll talk about. In one month, the figures will be detailed and I believe that we are actually experiencing a new era with much greater potential than the recent past. However, because we are always talking politically here, let me be very clear. The country has been in a state of informal bankruptcy and has not repaid its debt, nor been given, nor have we been able to eradicate it. There has been a serious debt restructuring that helps for the next fifteen years. The third programme has been completed and the budgetary adjustment programmes and agreements, the so-called Memorandum, have been completed. This has happened. Every government, today, the next, any sovereign government resulting from the elections can shape its budget and be discussed here on the basis of the general commitments that apply to all European Union countries with a further commitment for the next two years in relation to the surpluses of 3.5%. These are well known. There are no further issues that we consider in any case the same as last year, beforehand, and so on. They're not the same. Let us come to this and, from there on, we will be given the opportunity in the budget debate to look at the other aspects, how sooner we could have come out, and so on, as has been set out in some respects. So we are discussing the new phase, the new data and the new possibilities of the country, the government, the House, in this case, to pursue its policy. I come to a central issue which you know has been an attempt we have made in recent years with the consent of all of us. We wanted and wanted the House not to be an excellent museum, a mausoleum, a management centre for the current legislative work, etc. We want him to have and to have as much as possible - and in the circumstances of the long-standing crisis that we have seen - a role that is creative, extroversion, a role, I would say, ark and not just maintenance. And that's what I'm saying at all levels. I think that we have achieved quite a great deal of this, and all this is reflected, as you can see, in the economic codes too. And I'm talking about people or quality in them. Because there's a strong extroversion. Nearly all the speakers - colleagues - spoke with very good words about the Parliamentary channel, the Foundation of Parliament, the many events and conferences that are taking place. In fact, in December, it will be the big three-day conference that takes place every year and this year it will have issues relating to information and democracy. Therefore, the Foundation of the Parliament, canal, extroverting with a number of events, sponsorships, encouraging creative restaurants in relation to the issues of historical memory, libraries, culture, cinemas throughout the region and not athenian centers, in all prefectures. And whenever colleagues have been asked to be aid, encouragement, support and not just arrogance - you know what I mean - the House to do this somewhere in a region, in a city, in a capital city, in relation to all other issues, that has been given, because we have the possibility of being given, as in exhibitions and creators, etc. So such an effort, such an image, is being formed. In the near future, significant efforts relating to the projects have been added. The House, in fact, is an old building that went through fires and fires. In 1934 it first worked as a Parliament of the Greeks. Then a little - not a little - went into decommissioning, but as a building, it continued to operate at that time with services of the state. After we had the war, we went through another process. It is clear that the House needs the main building and the other five - six buildings, such as the one on the street of Lenorman, which is an excellent building, the former smoking station, where the major libraries, archives and maintenance works are carried out and others about the archives, as well as the well-known buildings on the street of Metropoli, on the street of Parliament, on the street of Sekeri and on the street of Amalia. All this building complex, etc. It needs support, upgrade, modernisation, changes, streamlining, additions. Already there is the new building on Philhellenon Street and the construction of the "diamond" of the center of Athens, which is the Benakeios Library, the building next to the Old Parliament, will take place. It'll start in time. Generally speaking, and here in the microphones we are talking about, the roof, which is not what we see, is what we would see if it went from above and was supported after eighty years, but also a large number of other tasks relating to the Parliament itself, are to be added to previous work of a very important nature, such as the existence of the Parliament's five-storey garage. You realize, without it, what would happen in the center of Athens or what difficulties we would have. They had been made on previous occasions, etc. The House, therefore, and through its reserve, continues its work of modernisation. We are entering the new era with the most modern electronic governance tools, digitalisation at all levels, digital signatures, etc. There is work to enable the House to be part of the solution to the country's problem by coming out of this crisis, 'with all its stuff', and this to appear throughout the territory, as it was undoubtedly part of the problem during the crisis in the political, legislative and other matters that we have seen. I come to two final issues: Parliament's burdens. There is a tendency in fact and there has also been in the crisis - and I will mention in particular, in order to be convincing what I will say to you - for the House to seek either domestic or international institutions - I do not go into detail - to be charged with additional work, with additional responsibilities, with additional services. I am not talking about the services that we have set up, because they are working well: archive services, Legal Service, Planning Unit and other things, which are working and which have also given further help. I am referring, for example, to 'before you'. This is an important issue. You realised that after the decision of the Council of State two years ago, the tops went down. And it really needed a great deal of work on both the part of the government and in consultation with the Ministry of Justice, etc., but also with Parliament to reach this bill that came to Parliament some time ago. On the basis of this draft law, therefore, we have avoided the extremes being seen as having all the statements so far and the last three years and the political system, namely the eight hundred, because the political system is the eighth, because it is also the local government within, the elected, which traditionally has been done through here. After avoiding the extreme, they should also be regarded as having to be again from 2014-2015, we have reached a point where, in the House, I am using a neutral political expression - the duty to carry out a few thousand 'yes' of the judges. Because there are five thousand judges, and during their three years there are fifteen thousand statements which must be made retrospectively at the first dose for this year and that is why the funds are increased. Generally speaking, all the data are changing on this issue and there is a need for a serious reinforcement of the services, which can reach the need for even a building, which must only be available for this work, even if we are able to achieve the sample check, which is not contained in the legislation. Because the decision of the Council of State should not have been insulted, should anyone be able to stand up if he mentioned a sample check. This conversation hold her for three months. So that's what you've got for 'outside'. There has been a great debate for months, that the independent authorities should come here - all of their finances, all of their budget - instead of in ministries, in that the institutions considered, in any case, that there is more confidence in being here than in ministries. There was an entire debate. We avoided her. You realise how it would change the entire budget of this House, even for the five constitutionally established authorities. We also have extra expenses because we cover much of the country's diplomatic obligations. Keep that, too. Because we see every day that the visits made here do not only take place in the framework of interparliamentary obligations, I mean the Committees of Friendship, etc. Presidents, Prime Ministers, Ministers, i.e. political actors outside the executive are coming and hosted. There is special assistance from Parliament for a number of such obligations the state has, the country has. There is also, for our part, assistance to the limits of the law, on issues that the executive could at some point not cope with in the time that it should be able to cope with. For example, the House has, for two years now, given a high amount of EUR 250,000 per year, if I am not mistaken, for oil from schools operating since the afternoon and then, with their extra classes for refugees, migrants, etc. in all regions, which distributes it in schools. This has been happening for two years already. And I am not referring to the self-evident aid given by Parliament to large-scale disasters, which have also been mentioned by the rapporteurs, namely Mandra, the firefighters, the peaking of migratory flows, then other issues. So there's a kind of assistance to these issues too. What has to do with the Members and the extra burdens, I think it has been understood, because, as has been said before, the funds for this year's budget are very specific. I conclude with regard to parliamentary allowances, which is also considered a matter - I do not use the expression they use on the channels, because this will make it a title out of everything we have said - in any case that they are interested in sharing, because that is what is of interest to the world. Look, I want to be very clear. There have been unilateral cuts of 10%, for which we have not been forced by anyone, in addition to all the cuts that have been made - and I mean within this three-year period. Indeed, what the rapporteur of the New Democracy and Mr Koutsoukos have said is true, that all the simulations had already been made. There has been full - I stress the full - harmonisation of taxation in all respects - and in the case of the solidarity allowance there has been full harmonisation - so that the whole world can rightly feel that it is equal in terms of tax treatment in respect of the compensation of the Member. It's not a wage, it's compensation for the time he's here. There's a complete simulation with all our fellow citizens. That's what happened either way. As also, there is no sign of need in relation to retrospectives. We've explained it from the first moment. It is regrettable when we cannot agree with each other, so that information and a unanimous answer can be given in good time, which would also stop this debate. You are well aware that the bill passed last week in Parliament concerns a one-off payment of sums to specific categories. It's not a wage adjustment. In other words, they do not in any way create any given follow-up by other categories in relation to wage adjustment. It was seven clear and it was known from the outset. Suddenly, an entire theory has been discovered on the basis of what some earlier decisions have been taken on retrospectively others, with full recognition that since 2008, 2009, 2010, and then - I repeat with previous ruling political situations - these things had been completely cleared up, that is, the Member's wage had been released from the wages of President of the Ice Bay, despite the '75 resolution. He did not attend the Judges' retrospectives after 50%, etc. There is no question of pensions from 2012 onwards. This is all very well known. Also well known are presenters and former colleagues, scientists, etc., for two days, by testing our strengths and reflexes if, in time, the services can give the papers and inform colleagues, they have filled the whole world with their perception of 'they are dealing with these things', etc. I close with the following sensitive issue, which I mentioned last year: There will not be another year to talk about, because there will definitely be a parliamentary election in 2019 and before November 2019. Therefore, regardless of what side it will be in front of - I hope and appreciate what it will be, but that has nothing to do with it - another November on the budget of the House that I have this possibility will not be. I want to be clear. I am referring to the question of pensions for former Members of Parliament. And I say that to everyone's obedience. I said that yesterday to the committee. In this respect, a very serious mistake has been made with the latest insurance law, in relation to how their pensions are being mitigated. We are not talking about the reduction that all pensioners have suffered in the amount they have suffered, 20%, 30%, 40%. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking a lot longer. This concerns, if necessary, six hundred men and women colleagues, who, according to 95% - not to say more - are not of the kind I am. It wasn't from the left. But that doesn't play any role. These people have suffered a dramatic decline in their incomes. Some of them had closed their jobs. They were more than five, ten, fifteen years self-employed. Their budgets or their lives have been completely reversed for the very simple but also bad reason to 'eat' and to do nothing, that is to say, they have been treated as the state official. While it had to be recognised, as it is true, that parliamentary compensation, which is compensation for certain months and years that someone is a Member of Parliament, has been on the payroll of the public. In other words, they are being treated as a civil servant who, instead of thirty-five years of service, wants to be involved in agricultural production in the seventeenth year, or to do another job and who is being given up by the State, taking a small percentage - it is not even fifteen-five-five-five-fifths - of what is due to him for 15 years. Thus, it was treated as a wage for the parliamentary wage and went very well down to the limits of the national pension, a multitude of pensions. This is an open issue that we have been dealing with for two years, and we are discussing it with their club. It's in parties knowledge. This issue should be resolved. I've said that on one, two channels. Then various hybrids came for the political system, and so forth. We must have the courage to put them in the way they are. I would ask you very much - and I say this publicly to the New Democracy and the PASOK - to be specific, and to their leaderships - on this matter to have the initiative and consensus of both parties, to which they belong and to which they belong and which are significant members of all the Transmigration, so that there can be a regulation on this issue. It is in the knowledge of both the ministers and so on. It would be unfair - I am not saying 'we are not prepared' - to say that this issue is being settled to a minimum and generally the rest of us, beyond today's majority, to behave as if it were not their concern. He needs responsibility from all of us. I'd be beg you to take care of her. Excuse me for longing. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u100	One colleague has not asked the parliamentary representatives for the floor. The debate on the Parliament's Expenditure Report for the financial year 2017 and on the Parliament's Expenditure Budget for the financial year 2019 is hereby terminated. We enter the vote of the Parliament's Expenditure Report for the financial year 2017 and of the Parliament's Expenditure Budget for the financial year 2019 at the expense, results from its use and overall vote will be taken separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes: firstly, the Report on Parliament's Expenditure for the financial year 2017 and secondly, the Budget for Parliament's Expenditure for the financial year 2019. Ensure that you have voted for Parliament's Expenditure Report for the financial year 2017 and the Parliament's Expenditure Budget for the financial year 2019. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u101	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u102	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u103	Therefore, Parliament's Expenditure Report for the financial year 2017 at the expense, results from its use and the total was accepted in a single debate by a majority. Also, the Parliament's draft budget for the financial year 2019, by-call, results from its use and the total was accepted in a single debate by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to give its approval to the Bureau for ratification of the Minutes in respect of the vote on the above resolutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u105	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should suspend the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u106	So we will be adjourning the sitting and coming back to work at 13 a.m. on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance : « Clearing : a ) of 29 June 2018 Act of Legislative Content « Extending reduced VAT rates in the Lero Islands, Lesvos, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios » ( A' 115 ), ( b ) of 24 July 2018 Act of the Legislative Area Act " Establishment of a specific account for the relief of fires broken down in areas of the Region of Attica on 23 and 24 July 2018 » ( A'135 ), ( c ) of 26 July 2018 Act of the Legislative Area of Legislative Area « Extraordinary measures to support the affected and restoration of damage caused by fires struck by areas in the Attica on 23 and 24 July 2018 » ( A' 138 ) and ( d ) of 10 August 2018 Act of the Legislative Area of Confidential Area of Conservatory Area of Confidence and the Contingency of Contingency of Contingency of Firestancestancestancestancestancestancestancestances » ( Imeaning Measures » ( 24 July 2018 ) The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 12 November 2018, to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u108	The House therefore agreed. Before giving the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur Mr Syriza, the floor is given by the President of Parliament, Mr Nikos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u109	Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen, as I have seen from the minutes of the debate in committee, there were reasonably questions that had already been raised and from the parliamentary control which is still pending, in relation to the accounts or, above all, the account that was set up centrally by the state, by the Ministry of Finance for firemen. I am given the opportunity - with the permission of all the other members of the committee - to speak publicly to you about this account, but also about the overall issue of accounts and donors in relation to the tragedy in Matti and the major problems that had occurred in Kinetta. We're talking about Eastern and Western Attica at the same time. Allow me, then, to make you socially aware of this: The central account which, on the basis of both the legislative act and the legislative act, has at present the sum of EUR 37.7 million. Of these 35 million are from three central bodies, that is, 20 million are from OAED with care for household reconstruction, 10 million have entered from the Parliament reserve and 5 million from the Bank of Greece. The remaining EUR 2,700,000 refer to contributions, contributions from either citizens or larger organisations, embassies, etc., in total of three thousand individuals or bodies. Of these seventy-two entities or persons have given out of 3,000 euros and more. These lists are available to all parties' representatives. They could also be made public. I don't know if he's available to the donors themselves to be given. It's the whole of names. Here are all the lists of 10, 20, 30 and 50 euros, which are from two and a half thousand fellow citizens, up to seventy, who have put between 3 000 and 100,000 euros and are clubs and embassies. This sum of EUR 37.7 million has not been spent for time or a single euro. Applications have already been made by ministries, as the legislative act says, because it is a state account with the Bank of Greece. It is not an institution, it is not like the Molyviat Foundation established for the firemen of Elias. This is an account which is managed by the committee with the Ministers, which I shall be the head of the House. They come - or they will - demands from state services, from bodies - I mean public - to be satisfied. In other words, some sums will then be allocated, in public accounting and with full control by the Court of Auditors - even the account itself will be controlled by the Ministry itself. Applications have already been made - which have been approved - for two amounts, namely for one million euros and another million euros, but have not been disbursed. One million euros is for the dismantling of asbestos as special material from the buildings that have already fallen. They're depreciated. There had already been the twenty - four setups. It is a million euros for asbestos materials and for the management of asbestos afterwards, with special norms that exist by the European Union. It is also a million euros for special medication for our fellow citizens who are burnt. A list of who are specifically concerned, individually, for what period and for what care to be taken for their relief has been submitted by the Ministry of Health. It's a special envelope. These two applications have been made and, of course, firstly, we have thought that they should be met positively. This account will obviously not remain unaffected, i.e. - let me speak - it will not be left behind, because only the provision for the reconstruction of buildings from about seven hundred or eight hundred which have been deemed to be'red' and which has been charged to the Greek state to reconstruct, you realize that for the first instalment of them - which will be about a hundred fifty or two in New Buja, Matti and Kineta - it will take at least 100 million euros for their reconstruction. So in time, I'm sure there'll be requests from this account. If it were like that with all things, it would be too simple to meditate and record them. But we need to see total donations, fundraisers, big donors, and everything else has been in relation to this tragedy. I would also like to talk to you about these, because although they were not formal and are not typically according to the act of legislative content in our own competence, which we are only managers of the central account, we have tried to understand exactly what is happening - and we have seen it - because there has been a great deal of provision from the outset and an effort to offer this case. So we have the certification from the Bank of Greece of the four systemic banks, plus Attica Bank, for accounts opened to these banks by institutions, such as the two municipalities, one is the Municipality of Rafina and the other is the Municipality of Marathon, from the Church and others, to whom the sum of 4,700,000 euros has been collected. These accounts, too, are detailed. We were given by the Bank of Greece and they are in the five systemic banks. On the other hand, we have a direct contribution from companies that are doing work and I will mention it in particular because it is important because you know that the projects relating to the decommissioning of quite large part of houses have been carried out, the planting in five kilometres from olive groves which another company has given, I refer to the company 'TERNA', 'ERGOSE', the fuels for the machinery that the ELPEs have given, to the Copelous company which has made the contracts for logging with logging cooperatives for the streams, etc., to open there, in TERNA', 'J&P ABAX', which now also demolitions the company 'AKOP', which has made the first twenty-five demobilizations. This is all the companies we know for now. They are seven companies which, in one way or another, are free of charge, of course, in consultation with the authorities and in full control, do the work on demolition, the destruction of the burnt, the replanting and other such work. I come to two further issues concerning the following: During the committee, if you saw the Minutes well, Mr. Danellis was particularly aware of the progress of this fund and had provided information to the Committee in the publications and indeed so. In other words, there is a series of large donors who, throughout the first period and later on, you would also see some full-fledged entries in the newspapers, etc. - themselves have been charged, without there being synergy but confiscation and notification to the government, to do some works based on the principles of private law in respect of contractors, etc., to be done quickly. I am not aware of the progress of these projects or of the total sums and where these donations are currently being granted, which I have no doubt at all from this step to say that they will not be fulfilled. However, because we had all read the multitude of donations and intents for donations that were in many respects, I would ask for this Stepma - we have done so as a committee - that there should be even a register - regardless of the central account that has been opened - an accurate record of these donors and the sums they will give, another for the Lyceum Foundation, another for fire-fighting vehicles, because we are talking about large institutions, such as the Onassis Foundation, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the company of Vardinoyannis, Olympiacos and others. We've all read the intentions of these donations. Some may move forward or be in the conciliation procedure with the competent authorities, the Firefighting Office or the Lyceum Foundation or others, some may not have started yet. However, it needs to be recorded in a register so that we know exactly what has been accomplished and in what directions and contexts of the general planning of these large donations. We also had a second issue that we tried - and we are still trying to record. We all realised that there were some fundraisers, either through concerts that were held either through institutions or channels, which were about collecting money for the firefighters. And from this step, if they listen to us, because where we have been able to send relevant papers - we will cross-check what the banks have sent - we want to clarify exactly which municipalities, for example, have contributed through their special accounts, which they have opened up. Because they announced that they opened up, such as the CEDEFOP, the Municipality of Athens and others. Others, no twenty-five municipalities from all over Greece or regions, have made the central account and are registered. We want to record the rest of the rest on accounts, I repeat, which has been opened by municipalities, by channels, by artists and by elsewhere. We know that there are two procedures for notification to the public: one, which relates to Iranian procedures, is through the Ministry of Social Security and Social Solidarity for their approval, and the other is through the procedures and the donation legislation with each Ministry. For example, two or three companies from the ones I mentioned earlier, which are already doing projects, have signed contracts for respecting donations legislation, which you know has some 'principles', with the relevant Infrastructure Ministries, etc. These two processes have been activated. Of course, for now, there have been very serious subsidies for public finances, for example, for many months - perhaps they will go beyond the year or even two years - support for rents for a lot of people. And on the question of the rebuilding of homes, for which the state has been charged, we will be fully respected by what has been notified to the committee of the commitments made for the free preparation of new studies, etc., but above all for them to be rebuilt - which will be rebuilt - entirely. You realise that priority is given to the property which was legally licensed, i.e. in a legal situation, so that the state can rebuild these buildings on the same level of square space and position. But for all the rest, as far as I know, a debate has begun from the relevant ministries with the affected, which are too many, and which have been under a regime of semi-satisfactory, arbitrary or forestry areas, etc., to find a solution. That's why I said to extend time in relation to rents, for a world that may need to be slower to make their homes. They are matters that the relevant ministers, in particular Mr Spirtz, and others, Mr Flabouraris, too, could give you general coordination in this regard, inform you in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, or regularly update, as they should. However, as far as the accounts are concerned - and I am closing with that, Mr President - I would like to say that the central account, as I have said, is at 37.7 p.m. Nothing has been disbursed. There are two first decisions on one plus one million on specific expenditures. Its function is to come from ministries, from municipalities, not individuals, specifically requests, which will be examined to satisfy them. For the rest, there is a need - let me say without any hints - to arrange for their registration, for either the individual fundraisers that have been recorded and recorded, or the donors, medium or large, who have expressed their mood and desire, so that restoration - we are talking about the material side, because the tragedy is not restored to the ninety dead - and to Kineta in the west, but, above all, to the east, as soon as possible and, above all, in the medium to long term, of course. Because there is a big issue there too. I'm talking to you as an engineer now to get in touch. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] You realise that for areas that were out of plan, obviously, the planning for their remodeling has begun, which cannot be from the outset, because then too many property will be affected. There is therefore an effort to make a few fast tracks for the opening of large roads, crossings, accessibilitys, accessibilitys, the absolutely necessary remodelling there of the regions and in there the new housing and services will be integrated and the other work that will be done in the medium to long term, not just reliable areas but much better in terms of natural environments. Already all the route they ran a few days ago to Marathon, that is, five kilometers are planted with olives and other trees. Because we have all realised that one of the reasons, which has passed so quickly, and the fire, are the pine trees, which we were glad to see when we went through and saw them left and right. They needed - and there were predictions on this - that I should not go into these issues - of another type of trees along this route, which have been identified for years. Thank you very much. And for what the party leaders want, the whole to the name of all the depositors is at their disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u110	Thank you to the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolao Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u112	Here you go, Mrs Manolakou, what would you like? Proceedings?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u113	Yes, sir. A ministerial amendment has been tabled. I would ask, if possible, that there should be a report from the Scientific Agency by the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u114	Your proposal has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u116	Here you go, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, because the amendment to which Mrs Manolakou referred is particularly serious in her contents, I believe that the debate cannot begin without the relevant Minister coming to us and answer our questions in addition to the report of the Scientific Committee, which I believe is necessary. It may be that there has been a way of tabling this amendment a few hours before the House begins, so that we do not have a report from the Scientific Committee. Please, Mr President, take care.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u118	I should like to inform you both that, as we have heard, the Scientific Committee's report cannot be carried out. But Mr Famelos will be here to support his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u120	Yes, Mr. Karaoglu, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, one year is now being completed by a black, tragic anniversary. Just a year ago, twenty-four innocent people were victims of a murderous flood in Mandra Attica. I would therefore suggest, in honor and in the memory of these twenty-four people, that the House should keep the House - if the other parties agree - one minute's silence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u122	Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u123	We can keep a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u125	Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u126	Of course we'll get a part of it. The best honour, however, is to make anti-military works immediately and quickly, so that we never have such tragedies and victims again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u127	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u128	Yes, sir. If the House unanimously agrees, we can keep a minute's silence. [[At this point the Members of Parliament are standing up for a minute's silence.]] We can start now. Mr SYRIZA's rapporteur, for 15 minutes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to make an appeal to all sides and to all of us not to play with human suffering. The two tragedies in Attica - Mandra and Matti - in less than a year have shocked the pan-Hellenic. They are tragedies that will leave their prints for too many years and we must all learn the lessons that are needed so that they do not become repeated. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are essentially in favour of four acts of legislation, three of which concern firemen in the murderous fires of 23 and 24 July 2018 and in Matti, but also in other areas, in the western Attica, etc. We also dominate an act of legislation relating to the five islands of the north and east Aegean. In the first article, we ratify the operation concerning the extension of reduced rates of VAT on these islands. The five islands are Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Leros and Kos. This extension was made to strengthen the local economies and the inhabitants of these islands, which bear the great burden of the refugee and immigration crisis and were the result of the Greek government negotiating with the institutions. There was a lot of talk about the subject of VAT rates in the Aegean islands. I would like to remind you in all respects that the increase in VAT rates in the Aegean Sea was in the summer of 2015 with L.4336, after suffering for us - and of course also for the Greek people - an agreement between the Greek Government and the lenders. This increase was voted for two hundred and twenty, a member of the SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks, the New Democracy and the PASOK. I say this because in the committee there were again the well-known voices that we have been indicted on what VAT rates we have received and what we have today. I would like to remind them, first of all, that they also voted for it in the framework of Law No4336 and, secondly - and most importantly, not to forget - that in the post Hardouvel, which was made in 2014 in the negotiation that was never closed by the previous government of Samara - Venizelos, there is a clear wording on increasing VAT rates in the Aegean Sea between all the other measures, which were proposed at the time to meet the needs of the fifth assessment. Of course, the fifth assessment has not been finalised, Mr Hardouvelis, then Minister for Finance, but then he has been implemented with the agreement that the two hundred and twenty-one voted on. I mentioned the parties. I do not want to repeat who we voted on. From this point of view, therefore, I think it is clear that the inhabitants of these islands have suffered a very great burden at this time, that of the refugee and immigration crisis. Therefore, the maintenance of the reduced rates of VAT together with other measures taken by the Greek Government seek and support both the income and the local economy of these islands. I would remind you that two important measures were taken on these islands: one measure was that the islands of the northern Aegean took part in the social dividend at the end of 2017. The second measure, which already applies to these islands and will be applied from 1-1-2019 throughout Greece, is the transport equivalent. Through private discussions and self-government officials belonging to the Antipolitics area, it appears that the transport equivalent has contributed positively to the islands' available income. Of course, the equivalent of transport has begun and will gradually give rise to the issue of the freight movement of businesses and also to fuels. It is very important that consumers in the fuel service see the difference in gasoline 10 to 15 minutes from Attica. Furthermore, the universal application of the transport equivalent in 2019 on all islands will have significant effects, benefits for islanders. Consequently, the ratification of this act confirms the desire to have reduced rates of VAT on the islands, which incur the refugee crisis. I believe that in 2019, with the racing claim of all of us, there will be further redefinition of this measure. The three other legislative acts concern emergency measures for the firemen, the firemen affected by the fires of 23 and 24 July 2018 and of course concern the affected area, the extremely affected area, the Eye of Attica who had this very large number of ninety dead and the tragedy that is going through and their relatives. The position of the President of Parliament earlier was heavier, I believe, positioned and informed, but also a more general view of what is being done and how the government treats these firefighting regions and those areas. These measures, I think, are progressing. Of course, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, it is possible to keep up-to-date on developments and on how things go and how these measures are implemented. I think that the amendment, which Mr Famellos will shortly be developing, which was tabled today in Parliament, is precisely related to these measures, to clarify and facilitate the implementation of these measures in relation to the reconstruction of the area with the houses which have been destroyed and to the houses which need repair. It also lays down - from what we have seen - the framework for facilitating licensing in relation to those which fall within forest and non- forestry areas, so that this region can be rebuilt with absolute speed and efficiency. I therefore think that the legislative act, which was adopted on 24 July 2018, which established the specific account for firefighting, has been detailed information from the President of Parliament and the information that Mr Dannelis has brought us to the committee on behalf of the Potamos has been confirmed. In addition, the Greek Parliament and the Greek people were given the complete information about what is currently on this special account and how these funds are managed in favour of firefighting. In Article 3, it is ratified by 26-7-2018 the act which legislated the emergency measures to support those affected by the catastrophic fires. These are mainly financial support measures for affected persons such as: one-off financial assistance, suspension of tax and insurance obligations, facilitation of payment of tax debts, suspension of forced auctions, repair and restoration of dwellings and immovable property, exemption from HICP for 2018, provision of pharmaceutical and therapeutic care. It also provides for the relatives of the victims who have lost their lives: the possibility of their relatives being appointed in the public sector, one-off financial assistance, a monthly allowance for minors, the introduction into higher education establishments and, of course, a tax-free and incompatible aid. Finally, Article 4 of the Act of Legislation of 10 August 2018 on emergency measures for the execution of demolition operations is hereby ratified. In accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 52 of Law 4559/2018, which we voted on in the House in July, it is possible to implement these demolitions directly from the Department of Building and Demolition of Environmental Inspectors of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment and with resources from the Green Fund. This law already applies in some areas - obviously and there will also be continuity - because it is precisely because the legality of these regions must be restored and the possibility of rebuilding them in a new context, with town and sewerage projects, which will be sustainable for both the inhabitants of these regions and for all the visitors of these regions. There will also be routes of transit and escape, as they must be. Of course, there is also a message to the whole country that lawlessness in these issues must be brought to an end so that we do not relive such tragedies from the way they have been distorted over the past few decades, with responsibility, of course, and the responsibility of many players, but above all from the central government in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, indeed, in time, Mr. Armalene. The rapporteur, Mr Karaoglu, has the floor for 15 minutes. Let me inform you that the electronic voice record system has been opened and will be closed after the end of Mr Karaoglu's position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u131	First of all I would like to thank you, Mr President, and also the colleagues of all the parties who have accepted our proposal to keep a minute's silence in memory of the twenty-four innocent victims of last year's flood tragedy in Mandra, Attica. And of course, I should like to convey - on the basis of what I am reading - that there is a strong concern among the people in the region because the flooding projects have not gone ahead. It is a very serious issue, which demonstrates on the one hand the frugality of the government, but, above all - I would say - the abandonment of the Attica region, which has the main responsibility for all these projects which have not been done and which have had the tragic result of this date last year. I would like to raise this point by saying that today we are discussing four legislative acts dealing with two very sensitive issues, two of which are of particular humanitarian importance: One issue relates to the economic crisis for the inhabitants of the five islands with the greatest flow of migration through the reduction of VAT rates, and the second is to address the problems for people who have lost their relatives and their assets in the tragic fires in the Attica Eye and the wider region. We have had the opportunity to call the committee on a number of specific - small number - bodies to listen to them and see how many of what has been heard in the four and a half months since the fire has been implemented. Unfortunately, the majority refused to allow the firemen to come, that is, their representatives, or the municipalities concerned, or the region, to tell us exactly what has been announced instantly, have become a reality. What we have also said to the committee, which we will do, is ask for an extraordinary convening of the Committee on Production and Trade and the Special Committee on the Environment, where they will be called - and I do not think you can deny - the representatives of the firefights to discuss all these issues that we consider to be very important. So today, ladies and gentlemen, at the heart of our attention are the islands of the eastern Aegean, which have been affected by the refugee crisis and the relief and support measures for those affected by the murderous and destructive fires that hit Attica in July that passed us. Although at first reading they seem to be different assumptions, yet at their core they have common characteristics. This is because it concerns people who have experienced in the most cruel way the inability of the central authority, the government, i.e. SYRIZA - ANEL, to manage crises in an exclusive and prudent manner, applying the wise thing: 'Nevertheless it prevents you from doing so', for by means of legislative acts you are coming after all to manage the effects caused by your analgesia and the passivity of your administration, that is to say, to close wounds that we could have predicted and, of course, resurrected. On the one hand, we have five islands of the eastern Aegean - Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios - which endure most of the refugee crisis. The inhabitants of these islands, with a great soul - we must confess and praise them - are lifting the most heavy burden on their backs every day, supporting the hundreds, thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants who have arrived at their place. On the other hand, we have the national tragedy with fires in East Attica, which requires wisdom and respect for the affected and the families who have lost their own people. As a New Democracy, we cannot exercise a micropolicy on human lives. We never did it, and we're not even doing it today! The first article ratifys the Act of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios from 29 June 2018. First of all, I do not understand exactly what my colleague, the SYRIZA rapporteur, said, said, after a tough negotiation, that the VAT rates in these five islands were lower. I would like to remind my dear colleague that it was always a request for creditors to increase VAT and go to normal levels on these islands too, but it was a'red line' by the government of Antonis Samaras. So this was not done and there was no e-mail Hardouvelis, as you have misunderstood, as you were wrong to hear. Twice we refused that, vetoed and this procedure did not go ahead. So it is not true what you said, because the VAT on the islands remained at 13%. Following the disastrous negotiation of the first half of 2015 and the third memorandum, in which you led us, this issue came back and you agreed to an increase in the VAT rate to 24%. So today we welcome the turn of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to realism and welcome the government's decision to adopt this proposal of the New Democracy to support island Greece, which is also a constitutional requirement. As a result, it turns out that the initial rejection of our plan was only for communications and not for substance reasons. Let me remind you that, with an amendment to the House, we have proposed three times that the increase in VAT on the Aegean islands tested by the migratory, refugee crisis should be suspended. And yet, while the government three times refused to do so, it is now coming with its own legislative act which proposes what we have already proposed and rejected. Please note, however, that the support for tourism and commercial activity, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on VAT reduction in the five East Aegean islands, is not one-dimensional. In order to move forward, we must firstly help all of us to make sure that the European Anti-Fraud Office, known as OLAF, is cleared up by the case of the possible mismanagement of funds for refugees in our country. The shy images, which have travelled around the world, are internationally exposing our homeland and effectively canceling the so-called social person who, in fact, is evangelizing that only SYRIZA owns it and unfortunately proves that they are turning Greece into soul stores. Questions relating to the case in question must therefore be answered immediately. There is an obvious mismatch between the reality of the images of shame - particularly in Moria and the Diavatas of Thessaloniki - and on the other hand the European funds of 1.6 billion, which were allocated to Greece by the European Union for the management of the issue. We in this matter - because, unfortunately, we see that developments are not positive - as a New Democracy, we have tabled an amendment to that effect, which we urge you to follow. There is a great need to follow it, to support these five specific islands, Kos, Lero, Lesvos, Samos and Chios. We call for the reduced VAT rates to be extended to these islands until 31/12-2019. Don't hurry to reject it. Study her. We believe it is necessary to prolong the reduction in VAT rates on these islands, because unfortunately, the assessments that exist are that the wave of illegal immigrants and refugees will not be cut off, on the contrary, can be strengthened. I will now refer to the three acts of legislation relating to the murderous fire on July 23 and 24, 2018 in the Attica Region, more specifically in Kinette, Druffy, Penteli, New Buja and Eye. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that in those days some of the most black pages were written in the history of modern Greece. In fact, according to the French News Agency, the fire in Matti is the second most murderous fire in the 21st century, leaving ninety-nine victims behind. Today, then, we are in a phase that we cannot close our eyes in the face of the unrelenting truth. The murderous fire in East Attica, which cost life to our ninety-nine compatriots, was a disaster that could have been avoided. They're explaining the findings. Even if the fiery throat was impossible to limit, the area could have been evacuated in time, according to the findings of the internationally established teacher and member of the Athens Academy Mr. Konstantinos Cololakis, who specializes in dealing with natural disasters. In this case, we would not be discussing the loss of human life today, nor measures to relieve relatives and relatives who have lost children and parents in those tragic hours. All Greece remembers the first critical hours of fire and the appropriate ministers to wash their hands with a lot of nerve. In fact, their first reactions formed a sad picture of absolute cynicism: the then Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Skourletis, the then competent Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Toskas, declared very satisfied with themselves and sought to find the mistake in their handling, but they found no mistake. You see, the number of dead who were growing up, struggling the image. Both of them, of course, nowadays are a past by the government. The chief of fire, Mr. Terzoudis, insisted that if he turned the time back, he wouldn't do anything else. Of course, Mr. Terzoudis has been retired. The then Secretary-General for Civil Protection, Mr Kapakis, was very busy with selfie and posting to social media. He, at least, had the emotiveness of giving up on his own. The District Chief of Attica, Mr. Durou, shone through her absence, searching for ways and means to load their own responsibilities. The government structure, ladies and gentlemen, has shown an unprecedented inability to prevent and deal with fire, cynicism against the victims of the unspeakable tragedy and attempt to cover up, but also to divert responsibility, by diverting the debate to the arbitrary. We, with respect for the victims and the affected, but also for the independence of Greek justice, will expect the judicial investigation to be completed, which has fortunately begun. Because for us, above all is man and not communication. In relation to Article 2, which refers to the setting up of a special account for the help of firemen who broke out in areas of the territory on 23 and 24 July, we asked the committee some questions, which were related to how the complete transparency and rational management of money is ensured, because we have poor experience of managing major funds from your Government. I referred earlier to the research carried out by the European Anti-Fraud Agency, the well-known OLAF, on the funds allocated to refugees. We have also asked some questions as to whether the three-member committee, with the President of the Parliament, the Ministers for Infrastructure and Transport and Finance, each time it meets, how much money has been raised, what exactly has been done, what are its priorities. Of course, we thank Mr Voutsi, the President of Parliament, who came to us today and gave us some information on this. What we have learned, however, is that since the 37.7 million that have been gathered, no further EUR 1 has been disbursed. If that's not governmental lumps, if that's not government's inability, then what is it? There were 37.7 million of our fellow citizens, from public or other bodies in the wider public sector, from private or legal individuals and from this money - as the President of Parliament has told us - not even 1 euro has been disbursed. So are not all these people - the firefighting - of those areas that have been shouting and complaining that for four and a half months there has been nothing in the area and are concerned, especially now that there is a danger and rain flood and all that? In relation to Article 3, which refers to emergency measures to support the affected and to repair damage from these fires, I do not need to make a detailed report. These are self-evident measures to tackle a human tragedy. It is about the same as the measures taken in August 2007 when we had much bigger fires, with far less victims, of course. In relation to Article 4, concerning the act of legislative content ‘Emergency of demolition operations and the restoration of damage caused by such fires’, I must say that in the plan of demolition and impression implemented by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, an amendment is included to the allegedly accelerating the demolition of arbitrary buildings and structures by the relevant Minister. However, ladies and gentlemen, for three and a half years there have been a thousand six hundred nine irrevocable demolition decisions in Attica, which have been judged to a maximum degree and are not carried out under the responsibility of the Government. That's the absolute characterization of hypocrisy! The government officials themselves, who have been blocking demolition for three and a half years, while there are irrevocable judicial decisions to a maximum extent, nowadays represent the honourers of legality. These demolitions are also provided for by the laws of the New Democracy but are not implemented - and were not carried out until now - by the SYRIZA Government. I would also remind the House that there are two decisions by the SYRIZA Government which impose a suspension of the demolition of arbitrary acts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The first is 17-2-2015 and is signed by the current President of Parliament, then Minister of the Interior, Mr. Voutsis. With an extremely urgent request to postpone an arbitrary demolition order in a particular area of Rafina. The second decision is the next Minister for the Interior, Mr Kurubli. It was issued on 19-10-2015 and calls for the temporary postponement of the entire demolition program of arbitrary structures in forest and resurrected areas - as the title of the decision writes - in the municipality of Spata - Artemis. These documents show that by means of the provisions that the government has now brought to Parliament, it has legislated against itself, as three and a half years has not passed on to demolition. So her sudden concern, after the tragedy, is intended to turn people's attention beyond its own undeniable responsibilities. And they are responsibilities with name for the inability of the state mechanism to manage the crisis. Let us not forget that there is Mr 4178, who was voted on by the then government of national cooperation of Antonis Samaras, who set a framework for the settlement of those arbitrarily, which will obviously not be destroyed. It was a good law, which many fellow citizens rushed us to take advantage of. But who are today critics and say that they do not have responsibilities? They are the same ones who proceeded to even more generous arrangements for arbitrary settlements after 2014. Mr. Spirtz gave orders and directions to the arbitrary owners about how to settle their arbitrary plans. So let this game of hypocrisy stop the toys and take their responsibilities for the first time. It can't always be the fault of others. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have not understood this, you have been ruling this place for four years. Of course - as the President of our party, Mr Mitsotakis, has already said in 2008 - there must be priority demolition of arbitrary areas in areas which have recently been built on land that have been found to be resurrected. It is inconceivable that this thing should be done in recent years. It is also incomprehensible with the technology we have at our disposal today, not to know exactly what is newly built in Greece. We now have other tools at our disposal to deal directly and effectively with arbitrary construction. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr Karaoglu, too. I would like to inform the House that the electronic record for speakers has been closed. Six of them have been written. We will be compiling the time and informing you about what time we will have. I will give the floor now to the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr Famello. Minister, because there have also been questions about the analysis of the amendment tabled, I will give you formal five minutes and from there on there there will be tolerance. I know you need more time. And the special speakers who will follow will have the opportunity to put themselves in greater detail in the amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have come here today to present the provision for the restoration of firefighting buildings in areas of the considered or displayed forest map in Rafina, Nea Makris and Megara. Indeed, this debate is also taking place after the debate on the legislative acts relating to the region. Today, three and a half months after the catastrophic fires of 23 and 24 July in eastern and western Attica, which cost ninety-nine people lives, we are here to ratify the large number of measures taken since the first moment after the fire - and I am surprised to hear that they were questioned, you will allow me to present them - but also to introduce new measures to relieve and restore our citizens, thereby commemorating the memory of our lost fellow citizens. We are here at a tragic juncture, days when the very great fire is evolving in California - if I am not mistaken, the last figures and there indicate a tragic number of victims - which shows that climate change is here, with a great impact on the ecosystems that correspond to the Mediterranean environment, such as ours, by presenting phenomena that do not appear in the past and in terms of intensity and duration. And, of course, all of this gives us, if you like, the very great obligation to move on to new strategies in our country that had been delayed. In particular, the forest strategy, which our country has never had in the post-government period at least, but also before, is a requirement that has emerged from the debate we held in the relevant committee of Parliament. The Forest Strategy has been completed - an initiative of our own government - and it includes a very important chapter on public policy to prevent forest fires. Next week, it will also be institutionalised by the Ministry's political leadership, by us, and it will describe, with a special chapter, the treatment of fires and the prevention of fires, particularly in the area of mixed forest - housing, for which there are no tools, nor strategic nor technical. This, if you like, proves, despite the fact that it is not the time, and the great political responsibilities, to how unprepared our society and the state were on these issues. It is an innovation in relation to the past, because it must be said that no one in previous years wanted to touch the phenomenon of housing in areas where forest legislation is applied or in areas built in contact with areas that have a large number of flammable forest trees. In other words, for the service of "parents", to say clearly, some have allowed home to be built, many times of the poor, working and small and medium-sized family, but a residence in contact or within the forest area, while it was allowed and even demanded by the Constitution to become a forest map, unfortunately the previous governments have not implemented a top constitutional obligation for four years and have allowed it to strike back many times and tramples as well as owners of such land. I think there is a serious share of responsibility for the major disasters that we have experienced. The philosophy of our own provision today moves to the level of this innovation policy, namely to address the problem and to prevent the phenomenon, because we cannot close our eyes. Our fellow citizens are also waiting for our political contribution today so that they can be housed. This is the essence of today's arrangement, to return to their homes by repairing or reconstructing them and, if necessary, by shifting them to a small percentage. We have said this in the public debate for a long time and we are officially bringing it to Parliament's crisis today. And because they informed me that there was a conversation about surprise, if you want, a tool, I want to tell you that our ministry has been holding a press conference since 18 October and has informed and submitted the arrangement fully to the public. However, it must be done clearly - and I do not underestimate it - the debate within Parliament and this House. So from the very first moment we have been in the fire-fighting areas with constant visits, daily, and my competent ministers and colleagues with many tools, with burning trees, waste management, waste management, management of waste management, risk management, asbestos, automobile, electrical appliances, lighting bodies, as well as the management of burnt forests, as well as forest matter that causes fear in the world and wanted to prevent a possible new start of fire. There were therefore documents from both the Forest Directorate and the actions of the relevant Forestry Departments of Pentelis and Megaron, and we have already crushed the quantities of wood cut out from the area, because some people have said we have done nothing. There's been a collection of all the special waste. Since the first day, cars have been collected from a special recycling system. We demanded and opened excavation waste management facilities to receive special waste in August. Substantial source screening was made for all this waste. The funding of studies has already been completed, the preparation of studies, the viewing of studies and the approval of funding and the competitions for anti-corrosion and flooding in these three months. We have approved projects of 3.5m euros in eastern Attica and 13.5m euros in West Attica, anti-military works of art, corrosion and corrosion, but they also include wire boxes, jarsate and vegetation restoration, particularly in areas that have been hit by fires before. Already the anti-corrosion anti-milling projects in the regions of Pigadaki and the budgetary thieves of EUR 1.4 million are in a contract procedure. Also, the artificial reafforestation over Marathon in the region of Neos Voutzas budget of 1.25m euros is under a tender procedure and the Institute for Forest Research in Athens has already delivered a study on planting on the Marathon Avenue. The wood is already in the area, and the restoration work is already being carried out. Of course, a very large percentage of burnt vegetation has been removed especially near dwellings. We have completed these obligations, but at the same time we have proceeded with something that we have asked for immediately since 2017 on our own circular. In all the regions of the poor, the area, as the Constitution imposes, is immediately declared to be directly resurrected, and this has happened last year in Kadandi and in Zakynthos and forest maps have been lifted, which had already been done in eastern and western Attica. So, let us say - because there was a debate earlier on about delays and that they asked for our own political people, Mr Karaoglou said so that forest maps should not be posted, demolitions or other such fantasies and theories which are heard on the side of counterpopulation - that we have already moved forward and the forest map has been posted in both eastern and western Attica on 19 October in an area which has serious problems of violations and interests, but also with the declaration of resentment within it. So we are not delayed at all, instead we are giving local society tools and we have managed to do in two and a half months what previous political leaderships have not done for forty years. Let us say this clearly here and let the Greek society know that. We have completed the demolition start-up procedures correctly, because since that day, demolitions have started in East Attica and too many properties, gentlemen of Anti-Population, who have not been demolished for many years and have also been found in the service drawers and in Mandra this week. And I do not know if this has concerned the representatives of Anti-Population that demolitions began with a posted forest map, with delimitation of ravages and anti-military works carried out in the West Attica, because this is done by our Government and I do not underestimate the cost of human life. In the face of this cost, we are all much more, if you want, measured and considered that responsibility. However, these works are now being done and the forest map has been posted in eastern Attica. What exactly is going on with this provision, and forgive me, Mr President, I am also going to go into this. This provision, which passes today, as we have announced, serves the immediate issue of building permits for reconstruction of either medium-scale repair of buildings for fire areas on 23 and 24 July 2018. It concerns off-project areas and in practice enables a direct issue of a certificate from the Forest Service, which in other cases should await ratification of the forest map or the instrument of designation. So now, with an uploaded forest map that has the corresponding certification of the Forest Service in the off-project areas and with the considered forest map in the areas of residential densities or of the areas in which it is located, so everywhere, in all areas outside the project, regardless of whether it is on the posted or not the forest map, the citizen has the possibility for areas outside forest legislation to take the certificate immediately by fast track, directly from the information contained in the forest map and it does not need to wait for the forest maps to be validated. At the same time, the same provision applies to the housing contour and to those who had building permits for these areas. Therefore, those who had a building permit and those who are in areas outside forest law based on the information on the forest map are immediately certified for forest purposes to proceed with the work of rebuilding, repairing or rebuilding a firefighting residence. This, as you can see, saves citizens at least five months from the procedures that in other cases would be required for the region. In addition, it saves them from the time needed to put up the forest map, because it would either have to wait for the ratification of the forest map that is now posted or the act of characterisation by the service. Of course this is about restoring the buildings that have administrative characterisation documents, such as autopsy protocols, re-control notes, an autopsy report by the three-member committee, why do we have to say that all this has been done, because this is a response to the opposition that says 'and what have you done in the region'? The checks have been completed. They're out of burnt-out. There is already the plan for how construction will be authorized to become quickly, as well as the financial tools that have been initially given to compensate citizens - the Minister will probably say so too - but there are also financial tools available to rebuild houses in this region. Of course, this possibility with the forest certificate gives us solutions, if you like, even in the case of housing densely populated areas. In other words, even in areas where we have a large concentration outside the building and building plan and the forestry map law, it was envisaged that the contour and context of this area should not now be postponed, that is to say, that this possibility also ensures the speed for these areas and for the citizens and for the services, which should receive the objections to the rest of the area. This certificate will be provided by the person concerned to the construction services or the corresponding area for restoring the impact of natural disasters and will proceed with the issue of a building permit or construction as a result of a rebuilt building for which the relevant administrative documents, protocols and autopsies have been issued by the relevant committees for the prepared or re-controlled buildings. This, of course, solves many great problems for the citizens, if you like. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I would like to say more, but time is pushing me. Let me say that the certificate of non-reliance is given only for the contour of the property, so that it does not enter the mind of various and other possibilities, if you wish, of a possible violation of forest or urban legislation. It is about restoring the right and property that the citizen has, of course, we recognise the possibility of rehabilitating. Of course, there is provision for the possibility of re-issuing this attestation in case of a specific spatial plan. What does that mean for East Attica? We have said that the government is taking on the initiative of a special spatial project in East Attica, which is delaying both the previous political leaderships of the ministries and the Government. We have therefore taken the initiative for a special spatial project. So if, in the context of a special spatial plan or other arrangement, the contour and residence are to be displaced, because we are going to make arrangements which will provide a framework for evacuation and evacuation sites, which will not create the same problem in the area, the contour can be shifted, and this attestation is also valid for the same contour. So the right to a certificate is not lost and the citizen is served, because I have to say that a commitment we have made - and this commitment is also in this legislation - is that we will not allow the reproduction of the deadlocks created by the tragedy of 23 July. Because there were, in fact, urban and environmental deadlocks allowed by the previous political administrations of the country, which, unfortunately, contributed to a significant proportion in this tragedy. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So the East Attica will not be rebuilt with the same dead ends. No citizens' rights and no right to object to this procedure are affected. Of course I have to tell you that this provision is based on a provision that exists in the Forest Maps Act of 2016, that is, it is not a provision that comes from nowhere, where the possibility was given to the holders of building permits, to obtain an exemption from forestry legislation. Only here we make it much faster for an area that is suffering, which has suffered and which the citizens are obviously claiming - and it belongs to them - the right to restore housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, eleven German students from the University of Visbaden. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor. You can go up to Stepma, it's your turn to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u137	I know very well that it is my turn to speak, but because the Minister is probably going to leave and will not answer, because this is the practice of the ministers, I would like you to allow me to ask him a very precise question. Not to place myself on what he has done me irresponsibly, I will say that from the Stepma, but I want to ask him a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u138	Now ask the question, Mr. Kutsuko. Don't play, you could've made it from the Step and didn't count in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u139	If the Minister sits. If he tells me he'll sit, I'll run. How long are you going to sit down, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u140	I'll be here. Make it as part of your placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u141	Come on, Mr Kutsukouko, we will not deprive you of your time, there will be tolerance in order to proceed with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u143	Mrs Manolakou, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Famelle, I'd like to ask you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u145	I'm sorry, Mrs Manolakou, tell me what you want first. You're starting to ask the Minister right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u146	He made a suggestion, we heard it, and we want to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u147	Yeah, but tell us first you want to ask something. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u148	The people have not had this amendment in mind, you have now brought it. Many, therefore, through fear that they could not rebuild their home, were almost destroyed, only the walls remained and while it was to be termed "red", begged and pressed and called "yellow". In the face of this fear, yes, it was arbitrary or may have been illegal or anything, but you put a number of issues in mind in this amendment. So I wanted to ask you. These people could re-evaluate? Could the committees do it? I'm telling you a reality and you should normally know it. See what fear is in this disaster. So even their right to have a tiles in their heads again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u149	Mrs Manolaku, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u150	Ms. Manolakou...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u151	Not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u152	Minister, not now I'm sorry. Mr. Koutsoukos will be here, because I had given him the floor, and you can answer the whole end. Mr. Kutsuko, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u153	I'll be here. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u154	They're just afraid, Minister, if you leave and don't answer. For this reason, gather the questions and answer the whole question. Mr. Kutsuko, you have 15 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I intended to start my position differently by referring to the majority rapporteur, who told us that it was our fault to abolish the reduced VAT rate on the islands. I will say that, however, then. Because Mr Famelos has now come here to provoke this House. For the time of the disaster in Matti, our parliamentary representative, Mrs Christophilopoulou, will be placed at the moment. Because it is not possible to burn a hundred people, to blame the previous ones and you have no responsibility. A little contraction, a little shame, a little respect for the victims! So I come to your amendment, Mr Minister, because I have heard that you are changing everything that has led to the disaster. And what you didn't say! You said new strategies, no more injustices and so on. So I read your amendment and I want you to answer it if I read it well. If I do not read it well, correct me in the context of parliamentary dialogue. Do we recognize a man who is licensed to rebuild his home? We recognize it to him. Because he has obtained the permission under certain legal procedures or has recourse to the procedure for the legalisation of the arbitrary, which you have until recently extended as a government, Mr Spirtzis, has a legal right. Why do you put him in this suffering and the services do not function homelessly? The second question I want here very much to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u156	I'm sorry, I didn't understand the question. What's your question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u157	If we recognise permits and do not oblige the citizen to enter this process of attestation. That's it. Isn't the question understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u158	The houses that were burned?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u159	The houses that were burnt, Minister. He burned his house and got permission. Do we recognize her? If we recognize her, why all this legacy? Keep the question to my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Kutsuko, before you go on, I'm sorry, I'm gonna need a few seconds to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and four school attendants from the 1st Sparta Municipal School. The House welcomes them. Carry on, Mr. Colleague, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u161	The second question is a strict clarification. In paragraph 2 of your amendment, in the first subparagraph, Mr Minister, you are making an interpretation on the basis of the most closest to the time of drawing up forestry legislation. In other words, you are ignoring the oldest aerial photography available on the basis of which the forest maps have been posted and which are characterized as property by forest law. It is a simple question and it requires an answer to this House and to all citizens. Tell us, because this topic is agitating all Greece: Where forest maps have been posted and are in the process of examining the objections, based on the two aerial photographs, the oldest and the recent ones, in this case for the fire-fighting areas, will you interpret other way than the one that will be done in the rest of Greece? This answer I would like you to give me, so that we can put it in our vote and in the amendment. Because we, as you can see, want the houses to be built. You've accused us of being our own illegality. I come to the point, ladies and gentlemen, in the legislative act itself. The day before yesterday when the debate started, the issue was raised to the committee that the firefighters and their bodies should come to see how these measures have been implemented. The majority refused it, invoking the Rules of Procedure. I have brought a very specific example. I have brought the example of the act of legislation of 26 July, of Article 3 of the draft law that validates it, which was talking about helping the 5,000 euros and the 8 000 euros to families and businesses respectively because of the temporary or permanent emergency situation which occurred precisely because of the fire, that is, because it burned its home or business. That is what the legislative act said. In the ministerial decision you made six days later, on 30 July, you restricted the conditions for granting financial aid, provided that secondary control has been carried out. And we learn that because of this limitation, they have either been too late to get the financial support they needed or have not taken it to date. So they should come here and tell us. I also raised yesterday the question raised by Mr Venizelos and Mrs Christophilopoulou on temporary protection measures, i.e. barricades and barricades. If Mr. Voutsis was not here, because of his sensitivity to answer the question raised by Mr. Danellis yesterday about the management of the account, we would not have known that five major companies - the ones you called "national contractors", meant - as "AKOR" "TERNA" and others - had done to do projects. In any case, we do not have the procedure for parliamentary control over Mr Voutsi, and we cannot ask him, as we ask you. Why have you refused to the committee procedure, to have their residents and their institutions come here to discuss? Because - we are supposed to - we are all concerned that the second disaster should not happen after the first one, as we live in periods of unforeseen weather and we know that the floods following the fires are the second disaster. These are our remarks. Because, as you know, on 24 July, with our proposal, we described measures to protect and relieve firefighting, many of which are included in the acts of legislation that we are currently dealing with, while others are not contained. It doesn't matter where else you do it and where else you don't do it. We will ratify the acts. I come to the second article of the Act setting up the special account. Mr. Voutsis said it. I don't want to expand. However, I would like the House to know the fact - since it has been mentioned - that, for the specific account set up for the fires of Elias, the so-called Molyviatis fund - because Mr Voutsis has referred to the transparency of management and of the others - I have been calling on the Minister for Finance for a year now to give us the rest and the movement of the account and refuses the Ministry of Finance. I said that to Mrs Papanatsiou, by tabling the relevant documents - replies from the previous Minister of State, Mr Stournara, who said that on 30 July 2013 I gave the number 92 million. We are also waiting for this answer. There must be a sensitivity on the part of the government and on the part of the President, who must tell the ministers that, when such matters are raised, they must respond. There is the question of demolition, which the government has once again shown to us, that this act which gave some funds to demolition would solve the problem of the illegalities which we, the old political system, have done and which is due to the fact that our fellow people have been burned. And celebratingly, the government through state television showed us some scenes from a demolition held on the rope, a tavern that, as I said in committee, we all went to our youth, but the colleague of Antipolistics earlier said we have about a thousand hundred unsuccessful acts. Again, Minister, as far as I can see from the regulation, this - let us say it - decision to give money for demolitions, while we have demolitions that are not implemented, will be rather for photographs and fairs. As a parliamentary representative today is Mrs Christophilopoulou, Member of the rest of Attica, who has specifically dealt with both your responsibilities and the proposals we have put forward to deal with the problem, I stop here, so that I can have a little time for the other big issue concerning VAT on the islands. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat in this House that Andreas Papandreou in the 1980s has vindicated and took the peculiarity of our islands from the European Union. In response, it was the introduction of the reduced VAT rate in the Aegean islands, which was extended to the islands of the Cyclades. The government of Mr. Tsipras and the "Urban Negotiation" managed to lose this advantage of the country and gradually abolished the reduced VAT on the Aegean islands other than four islands facing the problem of the refugee crisis, Lesvos, Chios, Samos and Kos. And since the prediction was to abolish the reduced VAT on June 30, pushed, under the residents' reactions, it brought an extension of up to 31-12-2018 with P.N. We had already tabled a proposal for a law, which was also financially assessed by the General Accounting Office, and it was not very much its cost for an extension by one year and at the same time the establishment of a committee that would study how we will deal with the difficulties of living on the islands, increased living costs and other issues of competitiveness faced by island Greece, which are obviously not treated with the so-called transport equivalent, which is a part of it. It's about transport costs and that's all. So this proposal, in Article 35 of the draft law we tabled on the problems faced by the Greek economy in the so-called memorandum period that you say that we have entered, in other words, tax reductions in businesses, incentives for farmers, the treatment of businesses in the closure process because of the policy pursued, and so on, we have re-drafted it. And because the cost of the General Accounting, which is attached to the act of law, is about EUR 28,000, 000, if I remember well, for a semester, the cost of extending this provision for a year is relatively small, when the government says it has a huge surplus of EUR 6,5 billion, which Mr Tsipras will share in the next few days. I do not want to bless my beards - for the extension of the reduced VAT to the islands? Which VAT is obviously not the same as the old one, because it is another 30% at 24% and another at 12% or 13%. Because many products have since been transferred to the standard rate that was 23% and became 24%. This is the challenge, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, for those who claim that Greece has come out of the memoranda and has its own budgetary policies because it has an unlimited financial area. We therefore challenge you, on the occasion of the ratification of this act, to extend the reduced VAT to the Aegean islands and to accept our proposal to study permanently and firmly the problems of increased living costs and the lack of competition that the Greek economy currently faces in island regions. We will therefore vote for the ratification of the legislative act. We expect the Minister's clarification of our questions on the amendment with the intention of contributing so that the pyrogical residents of the regions in Matti and the Megarra, who have mourned human victims and human lives, can at least rebuild their homes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. If there are a number of colleagues who want to ask the special speakers something about the Minister's amendment, they should raise the questions and the Minister should answer them once and for all. After Mr. Germenis, Minister, you will have the floor. Mr. Germenis, a special speaker from the Golden Dawn, has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister is here, who does not agree to answer the questions of the Golden Dawn Association. And it does not respond because it has an idealism, but it is obviously not capable of answering the key issues that concern the Greek people. In particular, for the amendment tabled by the Ministry, it is well known that the fire-fighting areas, in particular those in Eye - you already know - have been built many decades before the tolerance of the entire political system, and have been built without permission. However, the state, the parties, you have all been giving them power for so many years, giving them public benefits. Many homes sold, transferred, entered into contracts. Now what are you doing? You're supposed to help these people build their homes again and what are you asking them for? The building permits which do not exist. So what do you say to the firemen again? Illegalize again, build your homes again without permissions, without signals, without IKAs, without security, and again we are here to have you hostages in the election period, to call you "vote us and legalize them". In fact, you are giving an answer - from your words - to the amendment where you say 'For those who did not have a legitimate building permit, there will be a plan for adequate organization of the area safely, a specific spatial plan, to make a comprehensive spatial intervention'. Reading it - Greek we know - no one is making out exactly what "the poet wants to say" what the Ministry and the Minister want to say himself. It is not understandable to us, let alone to the firefighters who are waiting for the government to legislate for them. We are now coming to this act of legislation. It is supposed to be an act to deal with the extraordinary conditions in the fire in Matti and in the wider area, where - to remind - ninety human lives were lost and we are coming here now - five months after the fires, while the state had to be from the first day there - to do what? We state from the outset that the position of Golden Dawn is positive for these measures, which we call'summers', because they are not measures, they do not solve any problems, they do not relieve those people who just thirty kilometers from the centre of Athens. And because you said before that they caught fires in Florida, what you don't understand is that the extent and sizes you compare are huge. We are talking about a huge area and about a few acres in the area of Mattiou and Kineta. It is unparalleled what you have unfortunately stated from the Step of the House. There were also the means, there were people to run in the area, but these people who held managerial and executive positions were useless to carry them out. There are responsibilities and it is not a form of speech, because justice has already started to call on all those out-of-date managers to speak. And we are starting first - first of all from the Region of Attica, the Unsuccessful Regional Administrator, Rena Duro, the Civil Protection Secretary, that is to say all these chosen system and incompetent Left. Others have resigned - remember the undocumented Toska - and others, now again, want to re-apply, re-apply, forgetting their position and the catastrophic effect of the fire, which they themselves have caused. But let's start over. And we shall go to the first case, in practice, of legislative content, which is a problem, which the Golden Dawn has pointed out for a long time now. And it is a problem that the whole of the planet calls it 'destructive immigration'. When someone illegally enters a country, every civilized country, every country of western culture, what does it do? He's being arrested and reprocessed to his country of origin. That's what serious states do. But here we are a storeroom of human life, which we hold, without returning to where they came from. And above all, we don't keep our borders so no one can cross. The Golden Dawn program clearly says. Immediate arrest and re-promotion of all illegal immigrants in their countries of origin. Until their final repatriation is provided for their transfer to special detention areas, away from the inhabited places of the Greek territory, where conditions will not look like a five-star hotel. Golden Dawn is the only party that has highlighted the evolution of this phenomenon. On the one hand, we have Turkey that opens its borders to cross all these illegal immigrants, and on the other, we have your own policy. You remember Christodoulopoulos' statements, which he said about immigrants melting and then disappearing or Musala who did everything to encourage the flow of illegal immigrants on our islands. You're professionals, supposedly humanists. Each of you has a NGO behind it. You're paid agents with thick wages, sharing the millions that Soros gives you. Of course that's not enough. You also take the money from the Greek people to give a piece of money to some at the expense of our country's homeland. In addition to the national dignity you have degraded, the Greek people are also the Greek people, the inhabitants and the professionals of the islands of the eastern Aegean that saw their lives and their societies being corrupted because of your ideoleptic choices. What are you doing today? You give an extension to VAT rates from 31-1-2018, i.e. for one more month. Then there'll be no problem, you'll have solved it! It is a problem that you, of course, have created. You have not taken care to cover these areas, these islands. We, as Golden Dawn, from this Step forward say that this problem, the illegal immigration, the Golden Dawn will solve it in one afternoon. But what do you do? Trade with VAT the disruption of social peace, the alteration of population data, the increase of crime, the collapse of the ESS. All professionals see the trouble of sinking every day more and more. We call this a growth policy. Behind this policy you hide the dark plans of the new order of things and the European Union's sovereigns at all costs to the Greek people. Why do you not unilaterally remove VAT for the inhabitants of the islands? You don't do it for a simple reason. Because you're an employee of international loan sharks. You have voted for the Memorandum yourself. Anything you get permission from Merkel. You can't even reduce VAT on bread and on first-hand items. We asked the committee, what is the reason you do not reduce VAT for the transport costs? We didn't get any answers. Hopefully you can answer us now. These people have their cars, they have business trucks to make food moves, but the VAT there remains the same. Why did you make this exception? I now come to the second legislative act. You're making a special account for the wounded. That's as good as it is. But why should account management be determined by the bodies designated by the Ministry of Finance? There's experience from the past. The famous "Mollyviatis Fund" was mentioned earlier by this party here. Of course, the previous speaker forgets that after the Molyviat Treasury and the fall of the New Democracy, the PASOK government came. What happened and he didn't care about PASOK doing again the Molyviat Fund, waited ten years to pass, become a little bit of 5% and ask questions to the current ministers? That's funny stuff. With this fund, we fully disagree. We in the committee have made a realistic proposal on this issue. We said that this account should be managed by a senior judiciary present on the General Accounting Board of the State, in order to ensure the effectiveness of this measure, away from any involvement of a government agent. By means of the third act, you are subject to exceptional state measures for the affected. In this article, too, we repeat that we are voting in favour of the provision. But here too, we have a few remarks. First of all, we consider that the extension of the deadline for the submission of tax declarations, which had already expired in October of 2017, is a milestone. There are firefighters who have lost, apart from relatives, homes, work and all kinds of social activity. In our opinion, an extension of at least five years should be introduced, because the non-payment of tax or tax for a few months does not solve this huge problem, which you have created. The same applies to their obligations in the DUs, which have been extended since 23-1-2019 to bank accounts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will take some more time, because there are a lot of issues that concern us. What exactly are the benefits you give to firefighters? What are you telling them? For a while, won't your fortune be taken from the bank crows that have suffered a terrible disaster? I would like to open a parable here because a lot has been heard from this step and from the President of Parliament. I'm talking about firefighting, specifically in the area in Matti. Complaints of analgesia of the state machine are even scandalous today. The loggers, brought by Evia, started cutting the trees and cleaning the area from the burnt. That's as good as it is. But you forgot to pay them and they quit and they went back. Are we serious? I have here yesterday's photographs showing cut trees in house courtyards, showing burnt houses, forcakes, showing everything. I'm tabling them in the Minutes to see them. [[At this point Mr Georgios Germenis presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The President of the House told us that everything is going to be clocked down in the area. Let's take the President from the hand to tour him in the area and see what goes down, what a mess the whole region is in, where there has not been a single sewage project, the lukewarms, the wells have not been cleaned, absolutely nothing. Where did they go and see that there was some improvement in the area? These people are lucky. God helps them. There are no rainfalls and extreme weather phenomena, because we would have the same facts and the same dead as we had in Mandra. So what are you gonna do? It's been five months. Let's go to the fourth act of legislation. This is where we laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u165	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. He's talking about demolition of houses. This is where we laugh. You set up a summer show. You got your friends the journalists and the channels to see where some proclamation is being shattered to some saints and beaches on the rope, saying you're doing some work. It's a thousand hundred arbitrary people you need to demolute and you got your friends the journalists and the channels to pull that incident, where a bulldozer demolishes a pretext. And? What happened? On the other hand, in all the things you were going through, you asked and paid HIS, taxes, electricity, water, telephone, everything. That's where you got it from. So who's outlawing? Your citizens or your government? In conclusion, to close and not to hold any more time, I would like to say that we are voting for this sanction, but we say that these are semi-meters. It's not a measure. They do not solve any problems for the people of the regions affected and, of course, do not solve a major problem relating to immigration. We say clearly that in order to solve these problems from the Golden Dawn it takes one afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Germenis. Minister, I will give you the floor for five minutes to answer Mr Koutsoukos and Mrs Manolaku's questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin, first of all, with a comment, because we have heard a racist suppression of the extreme right again. The message of optimism and love is sent by the parents of the 3rd Municipal School of Oriokastro, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u168	I'll call you guys for a walk with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u169	Where we often met the far right out of schools, where the children showed the way of love, I must tell you that the parents chose the Syrian dentist member of the Parent Association's Board of Directors at the 3rd Municipal School of Oriokastro. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is the Greece of love, friendship, solidarity. If you want, this fact comes with the message of Giannis Antetokounbo, the most important message of Greece today, the Greek athlete who is in the unjust racist attack his brother Thanasis received. We compare our voices, we apologise to these children, who are the best ambassadors in Greece, because they are Greeks and show them and have the best person in Greece outwards. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is the answer to right-wing, hate and division. That's how we show our country's future.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u170	What I said you should answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u171	Answer Mrs Manolakou's questions. Although it seems to me incomprehensible for public officials to have underestimated the safety conditions of a construction - and that is why we need to be placed, if there is a question - and that they are in agreement with owners about the state of the house, institutionally and only without approval of any such case of consultation, if it has happened, I would like to tell you that there is the possibility of a reassessment and that there is also a step back-up. Indeed, there is the other option, which I consider to be more reasonable. Do not profit the repair and ask for complete reconstruction. Because, indeed, the big repair may be profitable. That is what is planned, and it can be done and I would like our fellow citizens to know about it. As for the rest, Mr Kutsukouko, I have obviously not mentioned anything about the issue of responsibility. I've referred to a factor that, if we underestimate him, he's going to avenge us again. I guess I referred to two factors. In climate change, which was poorly underestimated by what I said that we are living globally and we need to think globally and act locally. I do not think we shall all disagree with the democratic wing, the democratic arch in this matter. The second is that the paradoxes and violations of urban and environmental legislation must not be repeated, because they have also contributed to a large extent to these tragic phenomena either of Mandra or of the eastern Attica. I'm not saying we're changing everything that's contributed to the disaster. I say that we are discussing here together to launch sectoral and political reforms so that no new Mattie is repeated. I asked for this to be done in the way of rebuilding the area and also in the forestry strategy and in the prevention of forest fires and in the flood risk management plans, Mr Kutsuko, who entered the drawer in 2012 and came out in 2016, because this government chose to complete it and why we were a step before the condemnation to the European Court of Justice. We don't put it all in the previous administration, but don't we have to capture the reality? It is like saying to the FBI that I do not see the complaint about 'NOVARTIS', I close my eyes. What will society say next? He'll say everyone can get some air loans. Forgive me, but we cannot allow this, Mr. Kutsuko. This is democracy and equality, prerogatives and honesty in our country. But what about the reconstruction? First, don't shoot Mr. Spirtzi all the shit. He didn't bring up a revised arbitrary law. Our Ministry brought it, the Environment and Energy. Because at some point you said that Spirji did that. What's the truth? It cannot settle any arbitrary with the law that was passed in October 2017, when it is on forest land or stream. So there's no such thing. Don't mess with it. It's not allowed. It wasn't allowed. I don't want to charge it to the previous political leaders. It wasn't allowed. What is foreseen in our own rules? It is foreseen that this will be the case. If the forest map shows that it's oldest forest and now another use - that's what you've read - it's the same classification as the rest of Greece. It doesn't change anything in both eastern and western Attica. In these areas, if it has a building permit, then this building permit, because it is a legitimate administrative act and has not been set up in any other way, is submitted to the forest office and is given the exception for the building permit that will be made for reconstruction or rebuilding, so that it will not be involved again in a characterisation operation. That's what he says. I said it at the Step. If, too, it is out of the woodland area either earlier or now, so in 1945 and 2007 - I am referring to the two aerial photographs, because these are the dates of the forest map posted last year for the areas of Elias that you know well - then for these AA areas it gets the certification of the forestry service, without being a characterisation act and without waiting for the forest map. These two regulations are provided for in the specific legislation of the Ministerial Amendment that we are proposing. So those who are outside forest law can immediately obtain the certification of the Forest Service with the uploaded forest map, either in denseness, in an extension of a town plan, or in a non-project area - because there is the forest map - this is the great tool, of course not yet validated, since we have now started - while whoever was in an area that was older for forest use, can, with a copy of the building permit, go ahead and get the assurance. Because there is another question about whether special rules are needed for the arbitrary things that have been settled - I am referring to Mrs Christophilopoulou who has asked me this question, which I think has also come to parliamentary scrutiny - I would like to say this: the arbitrary arbitrary which is settled is not on the forest. They are therefore subject to the first arrangement that I have already told you. Because, in other words, they're not on a forest land, they immediately take the non-forestry certificate. So that's true, too. They take the certificate immediately, but to go get the repair license they need, because they have to build their house, three windows, one door, half a room, everything that is planned to be done in a reconstruction. So, I think I've answered that. But there is one issue. Are we going to build the same model? That is why I said that this legislation liberalises the forestry certificate very quickly - the people in the region are evacuating at least four, five months - and we will be coming with regulation with the Ministry of Infrastructure for Urban Rules, that is to say, to keep the space necessary for the road, evacuation and evacuation plans and access to the beach. We will not repeat the same wrong urban model, that is to say building on the deadlocks and having roads that do not have access to the sea or are not connected with each other and with the main roads. This is not solved by the present. There's gonna be a new arrangement. The matter of the forestry certificate and the suspension of a forest map including the reservoir act is currently resolved. Mr. Koutsouko, because you asked if there was another arrangement for the area, I will tell you that we are not changing anything, too, in the forest map and its arrangements. It's gonna be the same characterization. The forestry certificate will be the same, except that it becomes much faster, because as you can see, we owe it to all the citizens who must be restored very quickly in terms of housing. Mr President, I think I mentioned everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u174	Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u175	Minister, I really want to tell you that it is in terms of legalized...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u176	It's taken care of.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u177	Yes, the provisions of the laws of 2013 and 2017. So that's why you've answered and you're clear. However, Minister, I do not know whether you will stay in the Chamber - I can wait and not interrupt the rapporteurs - but if you do not stay, I must now say two - three things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u178	If I have something to answer, I would be happy to hear, if the President will allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u179	First of all, we think that they should be provided for in order to answer the amendment by the Minister. Otherwise, my speaking time as a parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u180	If you can in a minute have completed, then you can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u181	I'll be done in a minute, Mr. President. I would like to ask whether there can be certain deadlines for the administration's action and whether criminal and disciplinary sanctions can be provided to ensure that this situation is not delayed, because you can see that we then exercise parliamentary control in a timely manner so that all these months do not pass by and that we have this provision more quickly, that is to say, to facilitate the situation. But the same provision does not solve everything. Your explanation now solves the problem, for it is not well written in the law. I would also like to say that after the issue of the Forest Service attestation in case this building permit exists, as you have said, it becomes binding, because we are putting an administrative burden in addition, that is to say, to check if there is one. Does it have to be checked if it exists? That is how I read the amendment. If I read it wrong, answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u182	If there's a building permit, you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u183	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u184	Obviously, there must be! I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u185	Minister, soon, please, to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u186	I'm clear. There is no provision for this arrangement to be made for those who do not have building permits...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u187	No, that's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u188	...because if anyone doesn't have building permits and they're on forest land, we're gonna have to find another area to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u189	That's not what I asked, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u190	What do you mean, then?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u191	I say if it is settled or if it is a building permit, when it is - somehow - lawful, why does it have to take a certificate that it exists again? If I read it wrong, tell me. That is to say, since he has the permission, that he does not have to take a trial, that we do not have to add administrative burden - that is what I say - to the licensee.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u192	So you are referring to an item that is not in the hands of my ministry, but I will tell you what I know so far, because we will come back to plenary with Mr Spirtzi and Mr Stathakis on co-responsibility. Please indicate whether a building permit is required for large-scale and repair constructions. Yes, there is urban legislation that imposes the reconstruction of a building permit. I cannot change that on my own initiative. And under no circumstances do I have any competence to amend it. Now a building licence is required. We, as a ministry, come and contribute to speeding up the forest certificate that is my responsibility. You will allow me to say that there is indeed legislation on the issue of a building licence. We must also see that this is done without administrative burdens and time burdens for the citizen. This is the next stage, however, for which I cannot take any opportunity to intervene at the moment. We shall, however, be in a position to regulate towns and cities in a satisfactory way so that new phenomena are not repeated. For it is not just to quickly take up building permits - and I close, Mr President - and not to make deadlock roads and blind plots again - together we will discuss this here - but it is the next stage on building permits, which are legally provided for all these activities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think there has been extensive debate and debate on the amendment. Surely each of you and each of you will be able to be placed. Before I summon you to Stepma, Mrs Manolakou, I would like to make a statement to this House: the Standing Committees of Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Trade present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2016/1148/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems throughout Europe". Here, Mrs Manolakos, you have the floor for 15 minutes as a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u194	The draft law seems to be a formal procedure for ratifying five acts of legislation. However, it is of particular interest because these have already been implemented, they are being implemented. We therefore know very well the disadvantages and the inadequacy of solving these problems on the basis of what has arisen in the process. Of course, as much as the Deputy Minister has tried to make them look good, I will say that the reality is very hard and we are very afraid that the amendment will be more confused than it will resolve issues. And the wounded are in despair and insecurity from your policy. And let me tell you something since you're here, Minister? Why didn't you bring her sooner? So we would be able to make comments and improvements. But you bring it as a fragmentary measure, and we don't have the image. And now I'm going more specifically to the articles: I come to Article 1 on the extension of the reduced VAT for five islands only until December with the refugee issue. Eh, it is unacceptable, because the financial compensation is identical to the acceptance of the European Union's dangerous reaction choices that turn the islands into a permanent place where refugees and migrants are caught in violation of their rights. The reduced rate on all islands was a fair request and when it was achieved there was no refugee. It is a measure to reduce the consequences of large transport costs and other adverse factors which make life difficult for islanders. Today, in the islands where the reduced rate has been abolished, accuracy has faded compared to that of mainland Greece, more than 15% to 20%. Anybody want to talk about gas? Samos is 1,8 euros and next door, in Ikaria it touches the 2 euros. The same in heating oil and so on. Of course, its price is very expensive for both islands and for all of Greece. And to tell you it's no coincidence that the islanders and mainly Ikaria travelled and were in the process of mobilization in Athens precisely on these issues. The equivalent of transport so far is without a reflection. All they've got is four more euros refund from financial position tickets. What we have to say is that the JRC has taken the lead in the struggles and in the legislative initiatives for a reduced rate and we will continue. We have tabled an amendment to maintain the reduced VAT on the islands, without being linked to the refugee, but to the difficulties in the lives of the islands. Of course, I would remind you that in the third memorandum of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which the other parties voted, there was a commitment to abolishing the reduced VAT on the islands. That is why you are obviously voting for the article and the bill as a whole. With regard to Article 2 on the establishment of a special account and its management for wounded, we had detailed information from the President of the Parliament. It does not ensure that the problems will be solved after four months after they continue to exist. In fact, Article 3 that ratifys the specific measures for the affected and the restoration of fire damage indicates how inadequate they are. Firefighters are experiencing it. They experience shortcomings and are mobilized. That's what they did on Sunday with the Marathon road. They also stated that they were running their own "Marathon". The wounds are still open. The residents are trying to get back on their feet. It is therefore reasonable to require immediate compensation to 100% of the total loss. Of course, however, the deficiencies in the fields of forest protection and firefighting must be addressed immediately and a plan for dealing with such phenomena must be drawn up. The more time goes on, the more the problem is revealed. That is why we must address above all the real causes of the disaster. Therefore, in addition to the inadequate measures in the legislative act, there is also the following: much of what was in practice or other commitments made by the government, whether they were not implemented, delayed or applied with exclusions or exceptions. Can I talk to you? Hospitals are hospitalized by burners. Exclusive nurses are burdening the patient. Is there another burner that continues to treat at home, and is the EPPY treatment not covered at all for the drugs he's taking? The zero participation referred to in Article 15 is therefore on paper, and should have been given immediately. Or you are still setting time limits until the end of the year for a number of needs, when they should be extended. Rehabilitation or repair of dwellings. We are still in the application phase. And if we bear in mind what I said to you, Minister, and the fact that they were asking for the houses to be called yellow in their desperation, while the disaster was greater, you understand what has to be done. The payment of allowances is 5,000 euros per residence and 8 000 per microprofessional. However, these too have not yet been given to all the affected, while firefighters who for several reasons have been late to submit the documents by going to the municipalities, meet with refusal of employees to receive them, as they are late. But even when they take them, they make it clear to the wounded that their application will not proceed, after the dates have passed. We need to extend all the procedures and we expect to hear that you are committed to this. Hospitable at camps: There is no official announcement of the time when firefighters could be hosted in these structures. We believe that the hospitality of these people in these areas will have to be considerably extended, given that the compensation is being delayed, and of course all the necessary measures will be taken, because we are entering winter and these infrastructures are insufficient. On the occasion of this, I would like to say that the rent subsidy has been improved - they recognise it - in relation to the kilometres in which if firefighters have a secondary residence, they are not entitled to the subsidy. However, there are still exclusions, while the amounts are insufficient, following the sharp increase in rents in the surrounding areas and the shamefulness of the situation. Disbursements shall be made every month. Taxation: We talked about it and we say it again. It's a joke. In fact, there was a postponement of the payment of the instalments of income tax until 31 December. They're crumbs, they're less than crumbs. They lost everything. What's to pay? Anti-military works: There has been nothing to do with that. Some attempts have been made are sloppy locally and certainly without an organised plan. Cutting and collecting burnt trees: Although most, logs and branches have been left on the ground until yesterday I spoke with them. Remuneration of professionals affected: It has not been substantially advanced. Time suspensions exist in insurance arrangements, as was the case in the collection of specific tolls. But that was not even for five days since the fire broke out. I mean, nothing. Not a single card requested by the firemen to move intact was given. And yet, at the same time every year in NATO you give 4 billion or more. Amyantium removal: unfortunately it has not gone any further. There are still stacked bags at points in the area, while it has not been removed from the majority of burnt settlements. Accelerating with special public health protection workshops is needed. Burnt cars: No compensation has been reported, except for deletion of registration permits. Okay, since they've been destroyed, what kind of traffic charges should they pay, by the way? Depollution of the area: There is no official notice from a state body. Only the results of the 'Democritus'. Neither by the Ministry of State, Minister, nor by the Ministry of Health whether this has been completed, whether necessary measurements have been made and what results have been obtained. Modulations and conversions of the firefighting students: There is a complete inconsistency between the programme of legislative acts and the commitments of the Minister of Education. We're waiting for an answer. The moleculosis for admission to the HEIs and TEIs was only for the last year's graduates of the Third High School. However, it is very important to mobilize these children this year, given that especially these children will have to prepare for the examinations within extremely difficult conditions. Like also being not only for those who have been called'red' or lost their own. And what we are talking about in the Parents' Federation with the Ministry of Education has made a commitment that this will change with further regulation. But nothing has happened. But also in the restoration of the environment there is a salt. You tell them one thing: "Don't cut the burns", then 'cut 'em off'. And what does it refer to in the legislative act? The autopsy before and after rehabilitation. The complexity of procedures and bureaucracy characterise everything and people stay, who deserve and need help. Therefore, the immediate simplification of all procedures. What I am saying is the amendment you have tabled. Finally, with regard to the fourth article, the reference to demolition essentially relates to the vast majority of decisions prior to the fire, which were not implemented, that is, without the killing fire, you had to implement them. These are fences, walls and others in the areas mentioned. We say that these are fragmentary and exotic cases. But you have used it too much to cover up your own responsibilities and the previous ones and to charge to the people themselves the cause of the disaster. The anarchy of the capitalist development path, as there is in all areas, also exists here. This arbitrary state has been aroused for years by the capitalist state itself and to give way to the pressing problem of housing, because it never had a project of populace work, but above all because speculation on earth helped the bourgeois class and its parties to make alliances with wage-earners, while at the same time giving a quick profit to the capitalist construction industry. Residents have been paying for years as well as for settlements and loans and electricity, everything to be able to stay in the area. No one is allowed to dare to blame those people who have spit blood on them to build a house, no one is allowed to identify these people with the majestics who have trampled and legitimized state forest land for villas on the globe. This is the way in which you have tabled your amendment. So, we're asking, are they for the large-scale fire that is arbitrary? With the progress you have on the two thousand seven hundred acres of joining the town plan of Rafina, as well as the settlements, you increase the built-up area to 182%. There are no guaranteed infrastructures so that they do not become a new Eye again in the coming years. The question that comes in, therefore, is the design from the principle that will ensure the conditions for safe and modern popular residence and not fragmentary measures that you bring to pieces. That is why the reassurance of the people and the concealment of the shortcomings of civil protection before disasters are just as permanent for the urban state as mockery and disorientation for the real causes of disasters. Unfortunately, such situations will have as long as the priorities, hierarchies and criteria for action of a state and an economy are the pursuit of capitalist profit and not the needs of man. This is an example of the floods in Mandra. One year has passed and you continue not to have any confrontation with the eligible budgets, because they do not leave any profit to the big-workers and groups. In other words, we can mourn new victims. That is why we call on the islanders, the people affected by the murderous fires and the people as a whole not to get caught up in crusts, because the policy of urban governments and especially in election times is to give one and then take 10, condemning the majority in poverty, misery and unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u197	Minister, you have the right to take the floor, if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u198	Just to clarify, because I am present and cannot answer, because it is likely that the citizens will also be informed - and I hope the citizens of Parliament will be informed, Mr President - that there have been measurements at sea, at atmosphere and measurements on radiation from the Committee on Atomic Energy, the 'Democritus', the PPE and the National Observatory. There is no overrun of any parameter. Everything has been announced in public. We are not allowed to jeopardize and prepare public health and safety for life. That's in your answer, because you left a suspicion. Secondly, there is no legalisation regarding the infringement and the commercial exploitation of forests or public property by means of the amendment. Only areas not covered by forestry legislation and having building permits quickly obtain a certificate. It is a right to live, and if you deny it, you deny the right to redress for citizens in the region, which many are both in the labour layers and in the small and medium-sized strata of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u199	On the contrary, we're asking! You distort the position of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u200	Please, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u201	I have shown a sense of understanding and, Mrs Manolakou, you cannot squash them. And because you said about major and not fragmentary changes, the national forest strategy, forest maps and forest fire prevention are strategic reform areas so that we do not go to fragmentary policies and that is what our government has chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u203	What do you want, Mrs Manolaku? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u204	It cannot distort the position of the JRC. We for the perpetrators have called for the preservation of all housing, but at the same time we also demanded infrastructure, so that we do not see a new Eye again and we fear that this will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u205	All right, Mrs Manolakou. Your position is clear. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr. Katsikis for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and Minister, we are discussing the ratification of the four acts of legislation, of which three were formed as a result of the extraordinary needs arising from the devastating fires that hit Attica last July. In addition to these three to which I shall refer overall, the other legislative act concerns the extension of the reduced rates of VAT to five Aegean islands, Lesvos, Samos, Chios, Leros and Kos, which have borne the main burden of managing the humanitarian crisis in recent years. As was quite rightly pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the act of legislation on the extension of reduced VAT rates on the islands mentioned above, at a time when the government is actively proving its social sensitivities and thus ensuring that it extends the period of tax relief for local communities. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] At the same time, the measures for financial support from the inland regions of the territory are further strengthened through the introduction and implementation of the transport equivalent, a law that is working as a countermeasure to the practical difficulties of the citizens and strengthens islands, complementing them for the benefit of incomes, households and professionals. Because we have heard critical and critical comments from this Step by colleagues in the Anti-Population Committee on VAT, you see, ladies and gentlemen, that when VAT rises by a single unit - from 23% to 24% - we are badly criticized for a policy that is being pursued against those who are called to pay VAT by a unit greater than that which you inherited from us, from what we inherited from you. You reached it 23%, regardless of whether by far-reaching decisions you were uploading it, and you made it an elevator, depending on the needs and impositions that you had accepted from the lenders. You've reached 23%! Of course, today with a plan from the Ministry of Finance, which will come, it will go down below 24% and the high and low VAT. Therefore, when we talk about VAT, we should be careful how you legislate, how we legislate and, in any case, let everyone make his self-criticism in this measure of VAT, which was really afflicted and - to be honest - it continues to be afflicted, because of the high rate of the present taxed Greek citizens and especially entrepreneurship. These in response, therefore, to those who have criticised the period of extension of the reduced VAT rates, as I have heard comments that it is allegedly aspirin without any substantial benefit. I would like to point out from this step forward that this act of legislation is not introduced fragmentally, but is part of a more comprehensive political planning that the government is now implementing with great flexibility than in the past, unfolding aspects of social care, which is possible today with greater ease, as a result of the recovery, economic sovereignty and autonomy that we have gained. Ladies and gentlemen, central political planning and multi-level implementation are a reality that is already in progress as much as this causes discomfort in some of Parliament's wings. With regard to the three legislative acts dealing with the management of exceptional needs arising from the fires that hit areas in the Attica region on 23 and 24 July 2018, regions that also coincide with being regions of my constituency, where I personally experienced the grief of my fellow citizens, I believe that the need to help our fellow people in a tragic position and the self-determined debt of the state to indulge on the paths leaves no other margin of argument. It condemns the consciousness of many other political criticism attempts with a clear aim to serve a short-sighted micropolitical purpose. I believe that with the memory of the dead, the innocent victims, no one should play. The management of the crisis arising from the murderous fires of July must find the whole House united in the service of our fellow citizens who have been in a bad position. This is the highest priority which we must serve, at least until the firefighters and their families are back on their feet. This is what we do through the legislative acts that form the draft law of the Ministry of Finance. This does not mean that we refuse to investigate and account for what has happened tragically. No one supports that. Justice has already been taken over, and I am now expressing my complete confidence in the work of independent judicial authority. Mr President, I have to repeat what I have said in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the objections which have been expressed and, today, on this step, on the arbitrary buildings. It will prove this and the research under way and the findings of which will be given to us by the public prosecutors and other authorities, that perhaps the existence of arbitrary buildings have mainly contributed to mourning ninety victims today. Some began to renounce their own responsibilities for arbitrary and infringing town planning provisions and to blame them on us. I would like to remind them that the demolition protocols for buildings which have illegally been eroded in forest and resurrected areas are issued by the Decentralised Administration by a decision of its Secretary. Then there was a secretary, today it's called a coordinator. These demolition protocols shall be implemented, when accompanied by such expenditure, when supported by such expenditure, expenditure without which no workshop and any Secretariat of the Decentralised Administration may carry out such demolitions. I would like to point out to the House that such demolition protocols, ladies and gentlemen, had been adopted since 1992, 1993. Why, until 2014, when you handed over after the popular verdict the power to the current SYRIZA - ANEL government, have you not demolished? Because you really never wanted to put in the State budget the expenditure that would support these demolitions. Do you know when you put such costs in the budget of the State? You put them in December 2014. Do you know why you did it then? You know why you did it then. You did, because you knew that you were leaving power, you were moving away from it, and so you thought that in the field of bad political tactics, the sterile political confrontation, which distinguishes you and characterizes you, you would have loaded our own shoulders with this suffering of demolitions. In fact, however, what has been said is true, because meetings of two former ministers of the Ministry of Interior have led to delays in such demolitions. And one of the main reasons for this postponement was the forest maps, which today are posted to ratify and clarify the matter of forest areas, will characterize the areas of forest or clean areas, so as to know whether the property of the one who built a house to house himself and his family is such that it is demolished or described as clean in order to get rid of demolition. That was the first reasoning. The second reason, of course, is that in these cases our policy has nothing to do with the irreversible social policy of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is now time for us to consider the share of responsibility that lies with him. And when I say "sitting from us" I include the whole of Greek citizens, because the pathogens of the past haunt the entire Greek society today, and unfortunately we experience the consequences of the mistakes and omissions that have been recorded over decades. In any case, we must do everything we can to mitigate similar dramas in the future. Against, of course, in nature and power we will always feel helpless, weak and small. What we can do at least is to increase the opportunities for vigilance, reaction and awareness of the difficulties. It is now time to set solid long-term planning bases, invest in prevention and knowledge. The vote in favour of the four other legislative acts, which are contained in the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, is for us Independent Greeks a political decision of self-evident nature. Mr President, we are in favour of this vote, and we believe that another step is being taken today in favour of addressing both exceptional needs and time-consuming situations. I would like to say a few words about the amendment tabled a moment ago by the Minister responsible, Mr Famello. We support it suddenly and we support it, because I want you to know that I experienced the agony of my fellow citizens, who were hurt by the murderous fire, who did not just lose their relatives and we fellow human beings and our fellow citizens, but who also lost their residences, lost the tile they had in their heads. So either by strengthening the state machine and the state's financial support - things that the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, referred to very thoroughly at the beginning of the meeting - have either wanted to re-establish or restore damage and damage to their homes. They were confronted with a decaying obstacle, which was an essential testament to fill the town file in order to carry out the above mentioned tasks. Today, this amendment solves the problem that really prevented them from re-engaging or repairing their homes, because this certificate is issued by the Forest Service, which is necessary to complete the file and to start the process of restoring or restoring the damage. Because it was imperative, therefore, to listen to the local society, ladies and gentlemen, after a sad tragic experience that passed, to legislate in this way to alleviate as much as we could, their pain, but also to behave properly, we wanted with this piece of legislation to prove that we heard the agony of local society in Matti, New Buja, in the Rafina region, in Marathon, and we did well. In conclusion, I would like to say once again that this amendment, which, unfortunately, some minor or major objections and objections have been raised, ladies and gentlemen, must be voted on by all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way in which this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students, and three teachers from a school in Finland. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dannelis, a special speaker from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we are adopting a series of legislative acts which came into force during the summer, including important and urgent arrangements for various ministries. I will begin with the PNP introduced by Article 1, which concerns the extension of reduced VAT rates to the islands of Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios because of the consequences, in particular, of the islands in question on the front line of refugee and migratory flows. I think we should be honest and accept that a temporary measure, like this, obviously relieves these islands of great burdens, but obviously does not solve the issue. Of course, we must realise that the lifting of the problems created by islands, and indeed the dual islandity, and the Archipelagos of the Aegean, require a more comprehensive policy, a set of concrete measures, which could always be lifted by the inequality created, in relation to the mainland. The equivalent of transport, which is a positive measure, obviously does not solve the problems either. It provides a small relief to the large costs paid by islanders, those who live or live on the islands. We must also conclude that for years the application of VAT on the islands has not brought the results we expected and had to bring. The price reduction has never been achieved to the last consumer or user of services. We all have to recognise that a series of distortions and pathogens have been created, which, in the end, have inevitably disproved the anticipated outcome. Of course, it is not productive, ladies and gentlemen, to forget here today by declaring in many respects the reduced VAT on the islands and its reintroduction, that it was a Memorandum of Understanding and, of course, it cannot be lifted. We can, however, pursue the results we wanted to have with the reduced VAT on the islands with a grid of other legislation, which we must do. With regard to Article 2 by which the Act of Legislative Action of 24 July - which was signed on the day after the fire, which concerns the setting-up of a special account for the help of the affected - the resources of the special account of the Bank of Greece come from deposits - we say earlier - from the state budget, from the public investment programme, from contributions from natural persons, from public and private legal persons, from foreign countries, from international and supranational organisations and, of course, from amounts deposited to banks for this purpose by individuals. The method of managing the account is laid down by a decision of the Ministry of Finance. The existence of a special account to help those affected by the fires is obviously necessary and rightly done. But all these months, then, is the account fully operational? We're wondering. Because there are many complaints that large donations announced immediately after the fires have not yet been filed in a fund and will therefore never reach the beneficiaries. The special account has been deposited until now EUR 37.6 million, of which the 20 million were provided by OAED, the 10 million by the Greek Parliament, the 5 million by the Bank of Greece and the remaining amount comes from two thousand seven hundred citizens who have given up to 300 euros, while sixty to sixty-five agencies, agencies, municipalities, embassies, companies have submitted from 3,000 euros and over. Therefore, the money deposited by large donors has not yet entered the account, nor the sums raised by solidarity concerts or other events. Another key problem, identified, is the simultaneous operation of other accounts. Iranian accounts we have from the Municipality of Marathon, the Municipality of Rafina and the CEDE. The sums collected in these accounts should have already been transferred to the Special Account of the Ministry of Finance, so that the total amount collected and the administration of this account by the Ministry of Finance is finally known. In any case, there is also a question of transparency and rational management of this account. And, of course, other colleagues have also mentioned the negative experience we had from the corresponding tragedy several years ago in the Elias Prefecture. Since 2007, the famous Molyviats Fund, for which we still do not know what the funds were managed, was the total deposit of the sums collected by this account and all the rest. In relation to Article 3, in which a legislative act of 26 July 2018 on the damage caused by fires and other areas of the Attica Region on 23 July and 24 July 2018 is ratified, the measures provided for are known. And, of course, they were intended to bring the victims of the terrible disasters to light immediately. It is true that the consequences of these disasters are being dealt with by this act of legislation. We must, however, anticipate and promptly take measures so that we do not find ourselves in the face of such unspeakable tragedies and disasters in the future. Of course, I think it is essential to complete the work and implement a comprehensive spatial action plan immediately so that we do not have a repetition of the conditions which have led to or widened and deepened the tragic outcome of these disasters. Mr Famelos told us just before that there is an attempt to have a direct statement of the procedures which must be legislated, so that we can go to this regulation of the global and synthetic plans and spatial interventions which we must do. It is, however, very serious, Minister, that time will also be required for proper implementation in practice. But why are we now talking about reconstruction without having, of course, plans for territorial intervention? I must refer to a recent letter of protest, which sent the Minister for Infrastructure in mid-October the Coordinating Committee of the residents, whose members we saw last Sunday on our screens during the Marathon. In their letter, they point out that many of the measures have still to be taken. For example, they say that the felling and the collection of asbestos has been frozen, there has been no serious flooding, there is still the recovery of benefits from some firefighting, pending work on the Marathon Avenue, as well as that on several roads in the firefighting areas, while they have been destroyed by the fire, they have not yet been restored. In fact, they note on 2-11-2018, then it is this document, that "today, a hundred days later, on many issues we are where we were fifty days ago". In short, there are serious problems, not so much in the composition, predictions, state relief planning, but above all in the implementation of the measures. Of course, we must not forget that time must pass for the benefit of the affected and not for the benefit of oblivion. It's nothing new for us, obviously. This delay in similar cases of state resurrecting is well known. Because it is the declared will and others the chronic diseases of public administration, the alalum with the overlapping of services, bureaucracy, the delay, which does not allow for immediate relief, which the affected need so much. The fourth article of today's bill relates to the act of legislation under the heading ‘Emergency of measures to implement demolition and restoration of damage caused by fires of 23 and 24 July 2018’. The first Article concerns urgent arrangements for the execution of demolition operations. There are arbitrary estates which prevented and continue to block access to the cavalry and many have resulted in both caging and the death of dozens of people, fences of arbitrary structures, facilities of various types and various others, which have so far not been demolished. And I wonder, like everyone else I imagine, when they're going to be demolished. It is also a serious matter where the credibility of the state is being tested and I think we should already have seen the results of the direct interventions. I must add here that the legislative provisions of this legislative act apply until the construction control services are established, as these construction control services are provided for by Law 4495/2017 on the protection and control of a structured environment. Here, then, in this law, published a year ago, the creation of the planned new structures, of these observers, namely fourteen regional and seventy-four local building monitoring centres, has not gone any further. And how will these observatories work? To begin with, there must be the electronic platform, on which everyone will have access, a common protocol, that is, and a large number of staff must also be found and trained to operate these structures. We have so far no picture of where we are going to be under the obligation to implement these structures, so we are very concerned about the fact that we can actually have the commitments that the state has made to clear up the arbitrary interventions which, in many cases, I have said just before, cost the growth of this tragedy. In relation to the amendment tabled just now, supported by Mr Famelos, we understand and agree that we should make the lives of the people of these regions as easy as possible in trying to rebuild their region and their lives. However, we have anguish and, of course, the reservation, within the darkness of the settlements, which are a hole in the forest maps, how many of these possibly illegal and arbitrary structures are hidden and, of course, covered. In any case, I may have an additional minor intervention for this amendment because it has been tabled at the last minute and we are studying it. It could, after this arrangement was ready, have been incorporated into the bill or submitted in time, so that we too have a full picture of what we are voting on and what is regulated by this amendment, which I say is otherwise necessary, because we need the bureaucratic anchor to be able to remove it from the backs of troubled fellow citizens. However, these issues must be dealt with with with the utmost seriousness. We owe it to the users in the region themselves. Mr President, we are also voting in favour of all the provisions of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Danellis. Ladies and gentlemen, before we give the floor to Mr Cavaldela, the special speaker from the Union of Centres, let me make a statement. The Minister for Civil Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Infrastructure and Transport and Maritime Policy, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on 15-11-2018: ‘Airports obligations concerning passenger records - adaptation of legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/681’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Cavadela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I have pointed out in committee, you have brought us here - I, at least, feel - as typical members of the committee to ratify a legislative act. And if the Opposition fails to ratify, there is no problem, since you decide. You have done so on the basis of the majority - against us, the fictitious majority - of these seats, which in reality do not belong to you and which is a distortion of the electoral law, where my own voter counts for 0.7 and yours for 1.3. However, because some of your actions are in progress, it would be advisable to accept the request for a package of counter-population for the hearing of bodies. We have asked for simple and reasonable information from the affected groups of the Greek people, who are suffering because of you for their problems, the difficulties you have caused them, the possible solutions that they propose. You, of course, as absolute knowledgeers, like the Pope of Rome, who has the infallibility and holds the whole truth, deny this little energy due to us, their hearing on matters that concern them. However, we realise that you have difficulty hearing things and miracles, such as the fact that the people affected by the great fire of summer have not yet received the help they have given to individuals and organisations in favour of them. You do not want to hear that you have left them, like others and, of course, the islanders, in their fate, who, like locusts, remain and insist on their damaged areas and do not give you the favor of getting out, making your dream reality, this left-hand idealism, to carry all of Asia and Africa here as investors "living". We ask you to tell who needs our support, who really comes from war zones, who must also receive political asylum. We cannot accept all of Asia and all of Africa, without looking at the cases that concern each of them. So you are thinking of our fellow citizens, without their opinion, because some of the so-called therapeutic actions which we are taking today are currently being penalised are under way, so that the last-minute mistakes could be saved, given some better solutions. If you really want to help, we need to hear the cries of despair from our fellow citizens who have passed and are going through crisis. But you do not want your responsibilities to be heard, you do not want the irrationality and the lack of the state mechanism to be heard. It is not acceptable to try to transfer your most serious responsibilities to arbitrary construction, which, of course, some of the responsibilities can be attributed there, but who could still be responsible for this? First of all, you, because you rule now. You have repeatedly carried out demolition inhibitors, which were finalized. It is a thousand six hundred and thirty-nine such final decisions. At least, they could have been demolished, walls, mantillas and other obstacles, which had already, as I said before, perfected. Let us remember, of course, that there is a decision of your own, former Minister of the Interior and the decision was adopted on 19-10-2015, where the Minister calls for the postponement of the entire programme of the demolition of arbitrary structures, without any exception, of course, to forests and reservoirs, as the title of the decision in the Municipal Democracy of Spata - Artemis writes. What about building observatories? The previous officials should not be assimilated to the settlers and the white pigeons, because their responsibilities - and their responsibilities - are enormous in the matter of arbitrary construction. You don't want to hear that you sent people to the fire, that you left them uninformed, that you didn't order their removal in time, that they fought with the waves in the hours and drowned one by one, by one. This great incapacity will haunt you forever if you have humanity within you. And I ask the following simple question: why didn't you get help from the air in this big crisis? You didn't have to get any closer. The helicopters, I know, only fly for the ministers and Presidents of the Republic, but in this case they should fly to make firefighting uniforms. They could have saved people from it. There could be a drop-off of sabotage faces, portable wires, to receive orders, ropes, lifeboats, tools, portable fire extinguishers. The Special Forces had to go down to coordinate as teamlors, the work of escape departments. You let the simple world decide about his fate, not know where he's going to leave and how he's going to leave. There are many 'why's. There are no answers easy. Perhaps your own children, your grandchildren, are at their home now, going to school, to special schools, as the children of the Prime Minister go, of course, so that they don't get confused with refugees, I suppose. Well, well, since your kids are fine, but some other children have found themselves tight, burnt in some fields. I have no words to address a cohabitation that, supposedly, came to save us. The sooner you leave - this is the opinion of a large portion of the Greek people - the better salvation you offer us. And not to rejoice Mr. Mitsotakis, because, after your incredible mistakes, he will come himself to rule, it is probably a dream of summer night. So unreasonable mistakes, costing lives, property, destroyed the country's normal life, were made. The mistakes have been made. The dead don't come back. But what is the state's protection? The 5,000 euros and 8,000 euros per case? And the dead don't need money. You do not, however, give anything essential to the living dead, to the wounds, to the burners. And they, more than the dead, need our uncircumcised care - they and their relatives, to meet their immediate needs. To them, life is now very difficult and daily needs are becoming bigger and bigger. We therefore ask that everyone be fairly compensated for all assets. Where will the money be? Cut the former Members' pensions. They don't need them because they had funds from the former Members. Another was a doctor, another was a lawyer, another was an engineer, another was a farmer. Just get their pensions from their funds. And parliamentary pensions should be paid as allowances to widows, orphans, impoverished groups, to all people in need. It would at least be a good-will move. Put economic criteria on pensions. It is not allowed, once the widows eat in the trash, to retire someone who gets from other sources of 3,000 euros a month. He hasn't come out of the turnover. It's like working. Why retire after he makes business and gets money? It does not need state pensions, the one who gets from other sources 3,000 euros, while our helpless citizens are dying of hunger and cold. Mistakes, omissions, delusional! There have been a lot of wrong moves, for example for the Skopje, which I very much fear is that justice will have the last word, because you have gone on your own, without Parliament's approval, without Parliament's debate, to make this other infamous agreement. Well, don't rest. You, of course, ironically called...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u211	What's that? Talk to the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u212	It doesn't matter. I'm talking about mistakes made. I have a right to speak, and you're judging. You won't interrupt me. You don't like these. You don't like "Paulmelettes", as you call them ironically. These people who gave their lives are immortal. We must talk about them at least sometime. Some of your people are glad they didn't go to the army. In any case, you targeted the Greek national pride, the Greek conscience. You want to erase orthodomy, Christianity. Orthodoxy means Greece and Greece means orthodoxy. The same goes for the murder, recently, of the Greeks, against Albanian oppression. We now go to Mr Mitsotakis, who tells us on this point that the language does not do to him, it does not mean nationality, but for the name is not saying anything. He's accepted the name. The New Democracy accepts a complex name. We understand that. Mrs Bakoyannis says so very well. So they represent the New Democracy and the former PASOK that they react to your own VAT increase, which, to tell the truth, the New Democracy and PASOK have taken VAT to 23%. You, of course, only increased it by one unit, you took it 24%, because it was a little 23%. And you're all giving together a performance that for two months will apply this measure that you're proposing and then we'll send them back to their bad luck. But there are elections coming, and all along with crocodile tears, you pretend to be so, you care for our locusts, for the inhabitants of our islands. Critics are the inhabitants of our islands, because we said they were still there, despite all the difficult circumstances. You are legislating to increase VAT and now you are legislating on it. When did you do the right thing? Now or then? I imagine it ever, because now it has other criteria and then it has other ones. Anyway. It is now committed - supposedly - to a reduction in VAT. And it says this without shame, because it is now also addressed to the voters. The elections are coming. But voters put their minds on it. Let's go to Article 2 on a special firefighting account. Here I ask you to tell us when you will pay back the money that has been deposited by individuals. A similar article is Article 3 to the twenty-two columns and Article 4 on demolition and restoration of losses. There's ninety-nine dead and a lot more wounded. They made a law on Samara, known as 4178, which was allegedly settled, which was never implemented either by previous coexistence or by you. The law just became for the eyes of the world. Interrogate for non-existence of application of the law. As far as our position as the Association of Centres is concerned, despite the polls by its companies plus - more than 3%, "written incorrectly", in 2015 presented us with 1.8% and 6% of Mr Lafasan. But they didn't get a prescription. They made a big mistake. We're in the House, and Mr. Lafazanis is out. And now, because they don't get the number out of them to reduce them, they're giving us 70% results, without a reduction, because we're definitely in. So we're ruining Mr. Mitsotakis' dream of self-resistance. So get a class on the subject of polling. In the forthcoming vote on the revised constitution, a definitive solution should be made to this issue. Finally, before I close, I would like to point out that the oats left at the scene of the major fires will drown everything with the first rains. We told you. Make sure you fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u213	We would like to thank Mr Cavadela, who has completed the cycle of intervention by the rapporteurs and special speakers. We will enter the list of speakers. As you know, six speakers are registered. At the same time, they have stated their wish for intervention and some parliamentary representatives. I propose that two speakers speak from the list and one parliamentary representative. First speaker is Ms. Big housekeeper from SYRIZA. Mr Athanasios will then speak and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I cannot understand why, when we have a bill of ratification, you are letting the rapporteurs from different parties talk about winds and water. They speak of bills, what has happened with former Macedonia, what will happen with religion. Is that what we're dominating?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u215	He was a former colleague of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u216	It's okay. I left and got away. I would have gone mad. I have the brakes safely. But I do not understand now talking about a thousand issues, except the ratification we have. We found a microphone in plenary, we have the Step and we can talk and dance. I shall speak on this bill, which we want to ratify previous acts of legislation on emergency and extremely urgent matters. However, I would also like to refer to some other issues that have made a terrible impression to me. Firstly, I would like to refer to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Karaoglu. The President of Parliament spoke to us a little while ago, Mr. Voutsis, and explained to us about the fund, where the money has gone, that we have not yet exploited them, etc. What did you not understand, Mr. Karaoglu? Are you underestimating your intelligence? What didn't you understand? There must be plans to give the money. We won't go like 2007 when they started giving in 2009 and after 2012. I don't doubt your intelligence. You probably wanted to do what you didn't understand. That's all right, I'll take it. However, the fact that you did not understand what the President of Parliament meant is unlikely.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u217	I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u218	Then why did you ask again how the plans are going to be and the rest? I forgive you. Let us now go to the Aegean islands where we want to extend VAT, Leros, Lesvos, Kos, Samos. This extension is given very well, because these islands - as we know - have accepted too many refugee flows. They also faced a serious problem with businesses and professionals and were best placed to refugees. The most important part we want to vote on is the fire-fighting areas of 23 and 24 July. The destruction of the people who survived has left too many open wounds. However, I would like to say that the government has done its utmost to respond to the needs that have arisen. You can't count on a weather phenomenon, a disaster with a hundred and twenty miles an hour and in an hour and a half to cope. California cannot survive, burned for four days and has all the fire safety systems and evasive ways, etc. Forty-five people have already been burnt, two hundred missing and can't handle it. At least we, with the memorials we had, with all these issues, managed to help. Will we forget about Elijah's catastrophic fires in the Peloponnese? Anyway, don't get too far. The government has decided, within a few weeks of the disaster, to take steps to help. This set up the special account for assistance from the affected and direct financial support. Let's not forget that the wounded got 5,000 euros per house, 8,000 euros, 6,000 euros, 3,000 euros, 100,000 euros, the relatives of the victims, and 1,000 euros, the children who lost their parents and others are hosted. The fund that had been made in 2007 after the fire of Elijah - then I was not a Member of Parliament, but it seemed to me - known as Mollyviat, to have raised 208 million euros, but for a two-year period it had not been exploited. In 2009, George Papandreou, our George, received 131 million euros, which he transferred to the state budget, with the then Minister George Papaconstantinou. That money went to the Investment Fund. Of course the Special Fund was dismantled and this money went through the restrictive conditions set by the Troika. So all 131 million euros go. We now have another EUR 45 million left. My colleague from Elias asked me where these 45 million euros have gone. I should like to reply to him that they have been given self-government, the municipalities, but have still not been exploited. So don't say the government didn't do what it had to do. You haven't done it for so many years, you have ruled. And then it was fat cows. They weren't petty. Now we're trying to fatten them a little. You have not succeeded and you are waiting for us - and we in the government have all happened, earthquakes, famines and oppression - to be ready. But we'll make it, and we'll make it. That is why you must say a great 'bravo' to the government and vote on all that is positive, because until now, the two memoranda you have brought were only negative. At least you should vote for some positive ones too. You like it, you don't like it, you come positive and you vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u219	Mr Athanasios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u220	Answer everything, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u221	Where should I answer, Mr. Karaoglu? The Constitution says that if there are final judicial decisions, the government is obliged to apply them. Here too, decisions have been taken on the retrospectives of the mandates for over a year and a half, have not been implemented and we have done the experiment of the legislative provision. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to talk about the first act of legislation and the amendment in question, which we tabled because, otherwise, Mr Karaoglou has dealt with the matter. Mr President of the majority, you said that by mail from the then Minister of Finance, Mr Hardouveli, the New Democracy Government was committed to abolishing the reduced VAT rates for our islands. Can you get us the email, see if it's accurate what you're saying? I will read to you exactly what Hardouvalis mail says on page 27: "The Government of New Democracy confirms the safeguarding of insular VAT as an acquis in the relevant European directive, on the other hand they refused to abolish it under the Financial Adjustment Programme". Didn't you keep this in mind? We have said that on several occasions that this is the case. Now, you do not see populism. Of course, it is fashionable now, because we have an intensification of constitutional populism and I have no time to talk about these issues. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second point you said, ladies and gentlemen, is that two hundred and twenty-one Members voted for this provision. That's true. We voted for it. But why did we vote for it? Did you ask Mr. Tsakalotus about the contacts we made? Did you then see the Minutes of Parliament? Because the whole loan contract brought it with an article and that was a paragraph of an article. We therefore strongly demanded that this provision be released, that we should be able to vote against it as an incomplete article. We have asked for it, too, and for other parties. But you didn't. As you know, according to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the articles are voted on in whole, they are not voted on by paragraphs. It's either whole or not at all. So it was not right what you said and you informed the Delegation. Why did we vote for this article? Because, then, the government's goal was to stay in the Eurozone. That's exactly why. All other measures have been voted on to stay in the Eurozone, and that is the exact reason why. Now listen to something else. The troika then asked our government twice, the Samara government - and our rapporteur, Mr Karaoglu, told you - in 2013 and 2014, both through the representative of the European Central Bank and the representative of the International Monetary Fund, Mr Paul Thompsen, who was unbearable, to reduce VAT and we did not do so. You did this this summer of 2015 with n.4334. As far as the present and the opposition are concerned, Mr Mitsotakis said at the first time that the reduced rates of VAT must come back. In fact, he said so on the occasion of the conference, which took place on the development of the regions. Therefore, it is not accurate what you said and which was supplemented by Ms. Megalo-Economics. You also said that the maintenance of reduced rates of VAT has been prolonged, after tough negotiations - I see your expression - with the institutions. When? As you know, the extension was until June 30th. Do you know when this happens? On 29 June. What day is it? It's a day when there wasn't a parliament. If you wanted to do that, you would bring it by the 28th of the month, which was working day - Friday, that is - so that it can be voted on. Legislative act takes place on the 29th day of the month, Saturday, because the first of the month was Monday and we entered July. That is why it was done by legislative act and for no other reason. But be careful, I'm just reading the Prime Minister's statement. The Prime Minister did not say what you said, namely 'following hard negotiations'. You know what he said? "As long as I am Prime Minister, the reduced VAT will not be abolished." What's the matter with both? If that is the case, then, we are helping you today with our amendment. Why do you not accept our amendment to end this for another year, much more so that our five islands, i.e. Chios, Samos, Leros, Kos and Lesvos, are at present being hit further by migratory flows? Just last night, a video was released - you should know - with shocking traffickers' conversations with their partners on our islands, but also with immigrants. They say - I read you - just: "The Greeks are idiots. Playing Christians, so you can go across." This, of course, has nothing to do with the question of VAT, where, for too many reasons, it must be implemented. As you know, it is not just the issue of migratory flows, which are uncontrolled even today on our islands, and the Minister has not yet succeeded in making decongestion, which he had said in May that it would be over in September, but we also have the additional problem of earthquakes. Both Kos and Lesvos were very affected by the earthquakes. Do you remember that at the moment in Vrisa - has it been about a year and a half - there has been no reconstruction? And not just reconstruction has not been done, but the demolition of the ruins has not been completed. Apart from that, the port of Kos is the same. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. What are we telling you? Bring in the VAT, vote on our amendment and we are committed to going out tomorrow to praise the government and say 'bravo' for what it has done, just so that our islanders can be relieved of the economic situation in which your Government has brought them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 10th Larissa Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u223	About four and a half months ago, there was a very big disaster in Matty, but not only there and Kineta. Fortunately, in Kinetta, we have not mourned victims, unlike the Eye that we had ninety dead, perhaps more. From what we learn, there may be more, unfortunately, the dead. And then we saw a government, a state mechanism, which had no cohesion, had no beginning or end. Train didn't know what he was doing. The fire extinguisher didn't know what he was doing. The ministers were "on another planet". In fact, until the end, they fooled us that there were no dead ones. By 20.00' - 20.30' they told us they knew nothing about the dead and, finally, it turns out there were dead and they knew it from around 18.30' - 19.00'. But they laughed once again to cover up this thing as much as they could. So they come today after four and a half months to offer the people there to forget their pain. Let us say it - our speaker, Mr Germenis, said it a moment ago - that the situation in Matti is tragic. The loggers have given up the wood they cut. It's horny. They're not gathered. There have been no flooding projects at all. And, unfortunately, we are afraid that in the event of strong rainfall, there will be many more problems in the region. And now they're coming to throw a scumbag, like we said, to cover things up a bit. And we go to the Aegean islands, to the islands that have accepted the entire refugee crisis in recent years, to which they say: "Don't talk. Take an extension of reduced VAT for a month and a half, close your mouth and tolerate plundering, tolerate thefts, tolerate what the vandals, who have come in and do not respect anything, tolerate tearing down the chapels and crosses, which have been built by the Greeks, tolerate all this. We will make you an extension for reduced taxation." This is what they believe in the Greeks, that they can with 50, 60, 100 euros to take his faith, what he believes, what he fights for, what he has in his heart. It's not like that, and you'll see it. You've fallen out on too many things. You're going to fall into this one. It was a great surprise to you that the world, which had not reacted to economic issues, for the memoranda, came out and reacted on the subject of Macedonia. The same will happen in the islands, everywhere, in Central Greece, wherever there are Greeks, who will fight for the freedom of our country and for our dignity. That is what matters today: the dignity of the Greeks, which is being trampled by you and you are already mocking us. Let's go talk about some of the topical issues. There has been a great fuss lately about separating the state and church. So to clarify things - and our Chief, Nikos Michaloliakos, said them and the rest of our MPs, we will see them again and we will see them where we exist and where we are - Orthodoxy is an integral part of Greece, orthodox is fermented two thousand years with Greece. No Prime Minister has the right, no Tsipras has the right, no Archbishop, if he does not really represent religion and Orthodoxy, to sell all these things out. When Golden Dawn yelled ten, fifteen years ago and said that there are shocking things going down in our homeland, when he said we would have illegal immigrants in Greece, we would give them free homes, free feeding, free electricity, then they didn't believe us. They thought we were saying things that were never going to happen. Unfortunately, we have been entitled to do so and we have come to the point of doing so. Illegal immigrants are right now living in Greece, and the Greeks are being kicked out of their homes and have no children and their families to feed. Here we are! So here we go now and where we are not talking about Orthodoxy. We have reached the point of saying that it is something special, something neutral. Something neutral? Religious religion and neutrality in Greece? Where? With 98% of Greek Christians? Are you all right? What else is there in Greece? Christian Orthodoxs by 98%! Whether you want it or you don't want it! Whether they are Christian Orthodox fanatics or not so fanatical, but they believe it within them and have it from their conscience, from their ancestors, from their fathers, from their families. So how are you going to alter them and change them? Who allows you to do this? However, we and the Greek people do not allow you to do so! We will fight with all our powers, with all the legal means, within the House, outside the House, we will rise the world. These things are not going to happen! The clergy are called upon - and they are doing well at the moment - to react. Here to salute the fighters on Mount Athos, the Holy Monastery of Entanglement, all these hierarchs, the strong, the genuine, the originals, who fight against all of this, all these years. We're on their side. We're on their side. We are not forgetting the fight we are giving. We'll fight from here, the ones from there, and in the end this disgrace won't pass. Greece - whether you like it or not - will remain a Christian, Orthodox country! For some time now, we have also seen the catalysts of the Greek police. There was a Greek police, just as the Bolsheviks of SYRIZA wanted. That's what they said when they were kids, when they were young, before they became ministers and MPs. So they wanted the police: sitting down, eating slaps, being unable to react, and if a policeman goes to make an arrest, making an ETD, because he arrested the criminal and didn't talk to him in the plural. We have reached these points! But all those who don't want the police for any other reason, at home, want it, at ministries want it, outside the House wants it. And when they go there to protest Greek citizens, then they fall chemically, they fall wood, there are incubations and arrests, not all of course. At the rallys for Macedonia and Athens and Thessaloniki and in hundreds of other cities in Greece, we saw the police perform the senior officers and behave very violently. On the contrary, when Ruvik's children enter Parliament, they do what they want and leave, the police did the wrong thing and proceeded to some inductions, the President of the Greek Parliament said: Let the free people and bring them back and with the patrols take the machines that had the kids out here. These are the anti-government and anti-democrats who all support them in here. That's the reality. So we see Greece being a barren state at the moment of a Bolsheviks state in a state of people who, because of their ideology, do not love their homeland and the nation and they say so. This is their idiosyncrasy and their ideology. Faced with all of these is a despicable Greek people, who in the midst of the huge problems he has, his economics, his everyday life, does not know where he actually comes from. He tries to live his family, he has forgotten to live as a human and fights for survival. But deep in the soul of every Greek citizen there are these feelings. And you see that in the first opportunity, as soon as a subject arises, all these people, thousands of rivers, come out and resist. We saw a few days ago discussing the issue of former Prime Minister Simitis, opening up his accounts, about what will happen, about how things have gone, about whether the Greek public's money has been stolen and disappeared. All of you and everyone who listens to us what the Golden Dawn said before entering the Greek Parliament. He said there were thieves, liars and crooks here. We are entitled to the maximum extent. And all this is to know, to know those who hear us, that it's done with cover. They don't want to go that far. They put one person here and go that far, or the whole system collapses. And he has to collapse and collapse for everything that's happened. It will be the hybrid nemesis that has taken place for so many years. So we see them reach the Simitis. But when we in the pre-examination committee a year and a half ago pointed out that the case was not just of Papantoniou, of course = it was not only Chohatzopoulou - but we had to get to Simitis, all the rest of the parties, from all the wings, said that we could not look at this. Only the Golden Dawn since then said that the accounts of the high priest, this high priest, really, had to be opened, as was pointed out at the time, except that no one touched him, this man, who along with Yannos Papantoniou in 1999 on the stock market, had all Greeks played their money, their property, and to take it down. Then it became the biggest theft in the Greek state of the last few years. All these people have been left unavoidable. And if some are currently forced to bring Simitis or Papantoniou or Chohatzopoulos before their responsibilities, it is from the presence and existence of the Golden Dawn. SYRIZA will be dragged behind the program of Golden Dawn, forced to do some things that we asked for and now demanded in the Greek society and are absolutely entitled to. When we asked, we were told that it cannot be done. In order not to go any further, we will return to 2005, when it had become a pre-examination committee for armaments again and there were only four parties in the House, PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA - coalition was then I think - and the JRC. The result that had come out of all the parties said that there is no reason, there is no criminal responsibility, not only for Simitis, but of course also for Yannos Papantoniou and Aki Tsohatzopoulos. From this Stepma, when Akis Tsohatzopoulos and Yiannis Papantoniou went on to speak, they had thanked the opposition parties for having asked for no criminal prosecution against them. This "child" was the one that broke them with her entrance the Golden Dawn. That's the way things were then, and that's the way it is now. So we'll get there. We see that, as far as the constitutional arch is concerned, you are all dealing with each other, you are all saying it well, except the Golden Dawn, with which you do not want to have an affair. We want you to see how much we don't want in relation to you! So the constitutional arch has many thieves and crooks. What's the deal? Thieves, crooks, rivals, bills. Is that a constitutional bow? Take your constitutional bow from here, sit down with thieves and crooks to drink coffee, and we will be with the Greek people to confront you and humiliate you, because they will constantly come out of evidence that proves what you have done so many years to the detriment of the Greek people. We heard yesterday about the Revision of the Constitution say many words about democracy, equality, equality, equality, and, of course, forgetting that you yourself, in the Greek Parliament, are acting in the most racist way in the Golden Dawn Parliament. And not only to us, we do not care about us, but behind us there are hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens who vote, who want to see those who represent them in Parliament who want the truth to be heard, and you voluntarily exclude us from everywhere. So if there is a kind of racism in Greece at the moment, it is racism against Greek nationalists, at the expense of the Golden Eagles, no one else. Finally, I want to mention features that we will live again in two days the polytechnic story. We arrive on 17 November, we will discuss these things again, there will be some events. I would like to ask myself in this Chamber and to be told by anyone who believes in the Polytechnics and in the race which took place on 17 November the names of two dead. Tell me two dead inside the polytechnic room. Here we should not forget what the Cheva finding said, which of course said that there is no one dead, as well as what the Rector Konofagos said, who had said in his statement on 20-1-1975 that there was no natural dead in the Polytechnics, as was no one seriously injured. The same thing was repeated for seven years later, in 1982, in a book that he had written. And so we've reached the fairy tale what you've been forty-five years. Fortunately, Greek society reacts. Fortunately, Greek citizens are treating themselves differently and we are pleased to learn that many private schools this year will not participate in this festival, in this party that is being held, in propaganda where young children have to learn in that way I want there to be dead when they were not. We arrive at the point where they deposited a wreath on a bust, on a head that exists in the yard space of the Polytechnic, where it has become the oxymople and graphical of the case: The one whose bust was alive and laid a wreath on his bust. This is your democracy, this is the polytechnic story.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u225	Mr Manda, you have the floor, as a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u226	I think, Mr President, that the Greek Parliament should adopt a position on this - how to characterise them - as edited by the Step of Parliament, especially at these moments when we celebrate the revolt of the Polytechnic. We are already at the beginning of the three-day celebration of this uprising. They may not be said by the Step of the Greek Parliament, not only historical inaccuracies, but in essence we can hear the voice of the junta reproduced here, because these claims are the claims of the nostalgics of the junta. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u228	Here you go, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Why do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u229	For exactly the same reason as Mr. Manda. [[Noise - Laughers from the Golden Dawn wing]] Laugh, you're not ashamed! Yesterday, Mr President, Mrs Ghost reminded everyone here in Parliament - those who belong to the constitutional bow at least - that we passed the laws to catch those who put the finger on honey and steal. But the laws on murderers and criminals must be seen again, because democracy must stand up to them. And what has been heard here in the temple of democracy is unacceptable, unacceptable and disgraceful.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I would like 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u231	What exactly do you want, Mr. Rabbit?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u232	Give me the floor to tell you. I would like to say that the views of two speakers, two representatives of two parties, have been heard. The name of the dead at the Polytechnics University didn't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u233	We will not resolve this issue now. We don't talk about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u234	And a second...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u236	No, because they tell me I'm lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u237	There has been a position by both Parliamentary Representatives of the SYRIZA and Democratic Association, possibly by other parties, if they want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u238	In a few seconds, if you leave me, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u239	I beg your pardon very much, but we will not get into this process that you have previously put in from the Step of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u240	Theme two...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u241	That's historically registered. You can't falsify the story. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u242	Forty-five years you have manipulated the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u243	You don't have the floor. What can you tell us? Tell us the same thing? Tell us that you are nostalgic of the junta, as was heard here yesterday by your Chief, by the President of your parliamentary group? Hymns to junta and fascism? We don't accept. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u244	There weren't any dead. Tell me the names of the dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u245	Remove the floor to Mr Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u246	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Carras has the floor. Please close Mr. Bunny's microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u248	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u249	You don't have the floor. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u250	Fascists!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. I have to say this in the Chamber. Fortunately there has been the Polytechnic!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u252	Fascists!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u253	I shall repeat that with a strong voice. Fortunately, there has been the Polytechnic and we have a democracy, otherwise we would not have the happiness of talking in the Chamber today!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u254	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u255	Fascists!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Carras, continue, please. Let the tons fall. Make your intervention. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u257	I've lived at the Polytechnic School. I think I am also offended when I hear such positions. I think it's a personal insult. I was a student in 1973. I was living there, I knew the area, I knew what was going on. But in any case, I will listen to your opinion, Mr President. I will try to bring down the tons and get to the agenda. In any case, it is true that we must also honour and remember the Polytechnic and the Polytechnics, and it is not possible to forget it, to abandon it, and we must not only in the present circumstances, where we often see a revival of mentality and ideologies, but we must strengthen it as much as we can. I am therefore going to the subject of my speech, Mr President, which differs from what has been said by good colleagues and from the issues that have been raised in order to remedy the damage caused by the murderous fires. I have said many times and will repeat it today that the Constitution does not only provide for the repression of natural disasters, but also for the preventive functioning of the state. Unfortunately, today we are discussing something that demonstrates the lack of preventive function in the protection of the natural environment. It is a fact that natural disasters in many cases cannot be dealt with when they are to a large extent. But in particular, when we are talking today, on the anniversary of one year of Mandra's murderous floods and a few months after the murderous fire in Matti, we must open up the prevention debate as much as possible. I have said something that may have displeased some people, but I will say it again, ladies and gentlemen. We need the missing heroes of disaster prevention and not the TV stars that appear after the disaster and say they are saviors. We need that, but no such policy has been seen in recent years in the prevention of natural disasters. We all know that in a short time the floods will not be able to contain the fires from climate change. But if we look at it in economic terms, if you like, prevention is much cheaper than compensation for damage. According to statistics, the cost of prevention from the cost of rehabilitation following a natural disaster is 11 times lower. So we must also say this from Parliament, so that the phenomena of this extent are not repeated with the hundreds of victims. So we have to look at these issues, which are a constitutional check. Since the debate on the Constitutional Review has begun - even if Article 24 of the Constitution is not proposed, as it has been understood, to be included in the revision - we can see it in paragraph 1, and we can clarify and complement that the state may or must take preventive measures. But let us say what these must be, so that there is not only one declaration in the Constitution, that it is not just a proclaimed principle of the Constitution, but that it leads to a need for concrete measures which, at least in a concise way, will be referred to in the Constitution. I have to make another report, which has been annoying for me lately. We lived the floods of Mandra. Is it only Mandra who was at risk or at risk of flooding? What were the causes of these floods? The causes, of course, are usually the unregulated structure, the closure of the rafts, the change in the geomorphology of areas. According to a recent study in Greece, Mr President, there are five hundred geographical locations similar to those at risk of flooding. So if these five hundred positions - I am referring to geographically - have a flow of natural catastrophe to the extent of the phenomenon, one every five hundred years at the point where it will happen, I fear that we may have a natural disaster every year only by flood. I will mention an example that I have seen in the last few days. There is a lot of discussion about the floods, but it is still at the theoretical level. What's the theoretical level? There are many scientists who are involved, there are studies that are submitted. But what do scientists tell us and how the alarm bells are hitting and we have not yet seen that we need to take action? The measures are not only the anti-military projects that we are creating in the direction of rainwater. It's technical, and I don't have the expertise to develop it any more. However, I shall use one word and say that there are no measures to halt the floods. These measures do not exist at all in Attica, because at the moment the cities have risen to the mountains. Whether we like it or not, the cities went up in the mountains and there can be no natural drainage of a flooding phenomenon, intense rain, a rapid rainfall. I have here the plans - and I shall put them before you, Mr President - from the study of the National and Kapodistrian University and the Regional Association of Municipalities of Attica, where the dangers from the flood appear. Here is the Poikilon Mount, which we do not give him much importance, because we say it is a low mountain. The highest altitude that has been set is 420 meters, but the housing interventions and the pressure that has been taken leads to such a point that the risk of flooding in Peristeri, Aigaleo, Cameroon, in Agios Anargyros is high on the Hazard map. Mr President, I give you the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All these waters are led to Kifissos. So there is a risk that they will not be absorbed after the enclavement of Kifissus. There is no possibility that these rainwaters will be directed and we will have a huge flood, similar to the floods in 1961, 1977, no matter how much we want it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall be very brief, Mr President, if I have any tolerance. I am therefore appalled by the danger that scientific studies which already promote the protection of these regions should be carried out. But how will they be implemented? Before I finish, I have to say that. Only after the flood of Mandra, this murderous flood, were remembered by the Attica Region to ask for a study to be carried out to protect these areas. And o of the Greek rhythm, o of the Greek miracle, do you know how much time the study was given to submit? The contract with the design contractor was signed in September 2018, he was given a very rich period of two years to submit, during which three years he would be approved, five years to look for the implementation funds, I do not know if the next NRP could include the aid for the flooding projects in Attica. At times a lot of money has been given, we have not seen results. And we're starting to talk about the next decade. I fear that we will see similar phenomena both in the future and in the near future and in the next part-sessions of the House we will say 'we are giving support to the victims'. We don't want any victims. We want there to be no victims and the burden of putting it in prevention. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. When the convicts of the murder of the antifascist musician and the murderous attacks on trade unionists, communists and immigrants try to hide their criminal activity and ideology behind the scandals, which the system itself - which actually supports them - bears witness to them, we have nothing but to say that these collaborators, descendants, political descendants of the Hippies, Tamalayas and German gypsies are going to be the patriots and morally irresponsible. Now let's get to the point. With the third memorandum of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, which was voted for not only by the co-government, but also by the other parties, the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami government, they committed themselves to abolishing the reduced VAT on the Aegean islands. It is known that the reduced VAT, when introduced in 2002, was a measure - compensation for the consequences of the people's lives on the Aegean islands. The temporary maintenance of the reduced VAT on the five islands until 31/12-2018, but in connection with the refugee issue, is an act of legitimising the European Union's dangerous and reactionary choices that turns the islands into permanent places for the caging of refugees and migrants. The JRC claims to abolish VAT on popular consumption, and in this context proposes the permanent maintenance of the reduced VAT on all Aegean islands. That is why we have tabled an amendment calling for the reintroduction of the provisions of paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of Article 21 of Law 2859/2000 concerning VAT reduced by 30% in the Aegean Sea, as was the case before the abolition of the relevant reductions imposed by subsequent laws and regulations. At the same time, we call for the abolition of any provision of law or regulation which is contrary to the provisions of the article which is repealed. Ladies and gentlemen, the deduction of VAT was not due to the islanders, it was conquered after long and persistent interventions by the JRC and mass mobilisation of the people, and the demand was - and remains - 50%. It was a fair and necessary measure to alleviate the consequences of the problem of increased transport and life costs and was conquered long before the brutal attack on people's rights and incomes took place and is therefore more necessary today. It has, and has nothing to do with the refugee question, and it is unacceptable that the association between the government and other parties and bodies be established. Today in the five islands, Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Kos and Lero, where the reduced VAT still applies until the end of the year, the price of gasoline is about 1.65 whereas for example in Ikaria it reaches 2 euros. The same applies to heating oil, which is 1,20 in Samos and 1,37 in Ikaria and is likely to exceed 1,45 euros per litre. After all, it is no coincidence that according to official figures, the demand for heating oil has declined by 72% throughout the last 15 years. As far as the equivalent of transport is concerned, it is without objection, because this in no way replaces the losses that residents and visitors of the islands have. And when we say to people, we mean, above all, the workers and the people, who are the vast majority of the people, and so they are, to the extent they are, the most advantageous of the reduced VAT. With the abolition of the reduced VAT on most Aegean islands, which of course include Ikaria, the accuracy is glowing. For this reason the day before yesterday Tuesday, Mayor Ikaria, Stelios Stamoulos, along with members of the municipal council and union delegations of the island, such as the Trade Union Building, the Association of Workers in Tourism, the Technical Association of PPC, the Association of Self-employed and others, gathered in front of the entrance of the Ministry of Finance and asked to meet with the Minister of Finance. Instead, their delegation met with the Director of the Minister's Office, Mr Papaconstantinou, because, as the Minister said, he was missing. The main demands were: Permanent reinstatement of the reduced VAT on all Aegean islands. Elimination of taxes on heating oil and fuels. Active reduction of the electricity price. Financial aid to vulnerable groups that cannot set up heating oil in their homes. Extraordinary aid from the state budget to supply oil to all schools, with a direct increase in the operating costs of the school committees of the Municipality of Ikaria. The same applies to hospitals and public infrastructures. The representative of the Minister gave no response to the fair requests of the islands, as they were set in a detailed manner both by the mayor of the island during the meeting and by letters from the previous days. On the contrary, Mr Papaconstantinou claimed that the problem is solved by the application of the transport equivalent, a measure which, he said, does not simply compensate for the cost of the islands of the increase in VAT, but is even more equitable as a measure, because only islands are fruited by the islands and not by the visitors of the islands. In other words, a Greek worker who wants to go to tourism in these islands must also be charged with increased VAT. Did the municipal authority stress that it is unacceptable to ask ‘food or heating?’ - because this is the way it is said, choose between Scylla and Harybdis - and invites the people to participate in the mobilisations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Four months after the fire in Matty with the hundreds of victims, what do we have? Inadequacy of firearms and fire protection measures. Regardless of possible malfunctions during the fire, a lack of measures and personnel to deal with, a timely response to the fire and to avoid or at least minimise the disaster. One year after Mandra's murderous flood, people's compensation measures are tragically delaying, as well as anti-military measures. Over a year, more than a year from the destructive and murderous earthquake in Lesvos and Kos, delays in compensation, delays in taking rehabilitation measures and earthquake shielding. ‘Why?’ Someone's going to ask. Just because the costs of anti-nuclear, anti-military and earthquake protection are not eligible by the European Union but also by our country. And the reason why they are not eligible is as simple as that. Because they do not offer the desired profitability to the private operators concerned. We need a fight - and this is obvious - to take some relief measures, but we know that in order to tackle these problems in an integrated manner, earthquake, anti-military and anti-military protection is needed another organisation of society, which, in its aim, will not have the maximum profit, but will have social needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u260	Thank you. Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, I have requested the floor in substance to refer to two issues. The first concerns the wounded. And they're not just the ones in Matty, they're the wounded of Mandra. And the second is the amendment tabled by the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr Famelos, before the start of today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the 100 deaths in Matti and the twenty dead in Mandra leave no margin for either whining or comparisons of what is happening in other countries. What we have to do, beyond memory, is respond with concrete actions for many things. The next day, our Prime Minister said, for the Eye and in general for civil protection, it must be such that it does not have a point of reference in the previous one. The Prime Minister particularly referred to twenty interventions. There's a lot already going on. I would particularly like to focus on this prevention, which must be done at two levels: first of all, fire or flood and, of course, the next day. Because, for example, we cannot at this time respond to the great problem of our fire-fighting model, especially when prevention is the weakest point. So we don't have to rethink things there? Don't you have to have a forest service, which should be present when its object is destroyed, when you have residents, in the mountainous special areas, where when smoke comes out of the woods, they also look at the sky if the helicopter comes, if the plane comes? So we have to see that. But we must also see the next day in terms of prevention, because the obligation to declare resentables is an act which comes directly from Article 112 of the Constitution and does not allow for discounts. And I say that it does not allow any discounts, because if we do not do what is necessary, we will experience what has already been done in Mandra. However, I would particularly like to refer to this part concerning Matti. The government brings in an amendment which speeds up recovery procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, I am of the opinion that matters which are particularly affecting the environment or which are of an environmental nature must be approached in such a way that they do not create a fait accompli, which may be a day after tomorrow. I am therefore making a proposal. In the Eye Resurrect Declaration there are three categories if anyone sees the map. There are yellow areas that are agricultural, greens that are forest, coffee that are forested fields and reds for which it is stated that they are not declared to be resurrected for the time being, until the legality or not of the change of use is investigated. If we overcome the barrier of the forest management, which is unable to respond because of a workload because it is in progress and prepares new posts, then we must see what the manager will have to do after the confirmation that the red area is forest, so it must be declared resurrected. Then what's the problem? That's all there is to it. So what do we propose? I suggest that, if we want the certificate to speed up the work, we only find it on the agricultural land, which, in particular, in the area of Matti, is a very large part. Later on, too many areas in the Eye became forested, because they really wanted to strengthen the area with tree plantations. So, for the specific areas, we can bring in a simple provision, which says that we can give them the ok, we can give them the certificate before partially ratifying the forest maps, because that is the issue. Of course, by the arrangements it comes up, the Forest Director draws data on the extent of the area from information on the forest map in the case of approved and other plans and on the housing density which has been excluded from the suspension. Here, then, ladies and gentlemen, is something going on. We need to see what these settlements are, let alone when the process of defining the settlements is carried by the municipalities, the mayors in their hands. I just want to present you with a settlement from what has been proposed - because it is in too many areas - to see how each mayor is looking for a building that exists 100, two hundred, five hundred meters away from the settlement and creates forms of settlements - orniths carvings, so that he doesn't leave out any building that doesn't fit into the settlements. You are now aware of what may happen when we enter a pre-election period. That's what I'm telling you. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, should we not look particularly at the provision from the point of view of the declarant's declaring acts? There is a specific, explicit reference, and indeed the case law of the St.E., even though it has agreed to changes in use in many, be it agricultural or national, it has not agreed on changes in housing use. It is also a question of building up and of integrating every building in this process. So when we come to this process and declare resurrected acts, we leave areas which need to be examined if they have legal or non-use change, there is no change of use and there must be no change in the act of declaring resurrected persons such as this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Apostle, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u263	I shall conclude, Mr President. We really have to help those affected. So we need to see where things are easy by quick procedures and from there on we can get a provision. Because in these areas we must bear in mind that the provisions create data. In a country which has been the main feature of arbitrary construction, the violation of particularly forest-based soils must be a little more careful. This does not mean that we must not find a way - and indeed there is - to support those affected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u264	Mr Metarakis has the floor from New Democracy. He's the last speaker. They will, as we have said, be followed by three parliamentary representatives, then by the Minister and we will proceed to secondary education. Here you go, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of insular VAT has the signature of SYRIZA - ANEL. With your recurring and destructive claims you have abolished the most real, the most essential measure in support of islands, insular VAT, a acquis of decades, recognised by the European Union. Recall that in May 2015, Mr. Tsipras had included the abolition of insular VAT in the few measures he wanted to take before we came to the referendum, before the evaluation was closed. With the third memorandum, which you negotiated and you brought for a vote, you have dismissed the measure that was in existence, the acquis communautaire of our country, since the introduction of VAT in Europe. You abolished a measure which the Samaras government had defended during the times of the toughest financial adjustment. We then had red lines. From the third memorial and then you play the drop game. You give six-month extensions, abolishing each measure and a group of islands. So keep the island hostages in a micropolitical game. The last extension that you have made is with the MAGP that we are discussing today, which we are currently literally dominating at the last minute, two days before the deadline expires. In June, you brought an Act of Lesvos, Kos and Samos for the last five islands to which the measure applies. You've been coming here for the last time, and you've been dominating the PPA. But in December, in a few weeks' time, the six-month extension expires again. Clearly tell the islanders what you intend to do. Tell the islanders clearly that today, despite the title of the bill, we are not talking about a new extension, we are not talking about an extension until 2019, we simply validate what is only valid until the end of the year. Of course, there are your officials, there are ministers who go back to the islands and they are teasing that while SYRIZA is in the government, the insular VAT will not be abolished. But you did not include it in the budget scenarios. There is no preliminary draft budget for the government to maintain the island VAT, nor does it seem, Minister, that you are currently bringing in some sort of regulation. New Democracy denounces these micro-political games and we bring an amendment for once, asking for the annual extension of the island VAT until December 31st 2019. Seventeen colleagues are signing the amendment with a general number of 1799 and a specialist of 267, tabled in today's bill and it is the only prerogative of the government whether to accept it or not. In this context, you are holding the island hostages in a micropolitical game. It is the last extension that you are giving if you do not accept our amendment today. Ladies and gentlemen, despite your great promises, you have failed to bring in a support measure for islanders that corresponds to what you are abolishing. The transport equivalent is an aspirin, because it covers a very small part of the burden that islanders will bear because of increased VAT. One thing too, Minister, which is very important, is that the transport equivalent does not at all support our country's tourism product, which is the main industry for the islands. Let us remember what has happened in recent years. You have multiplely affected the competitiveness of the islands. Firstly, you brought VAT up to the focus from the low to the high rate. Secondly, you have increased the standard rate and the whole tourist product has now reached 24% for most of our islands. You have imposed the night's charge, giving a final blow to competitiveness and on 31 December, if you do not accept our amendment, you are abolishing the insular VAT on the last five islands in force. You are exterminating local economies. You exterminated those who are producing, who are struggling. In Greece that wakes up early and strives to survive, you have declared war. You also turned our islands into soul storehouses the way you operated the migratory crisis, further undermining the development prospects of the islands. You who are evangelizing humanism made with your inability and the ideals of Moria, Vial and Vathy. So accept and vote today on the New Democracy amendment on island VAT as a minimum aid to the islands still affected by the migratory crisis. I would like to say a few words about the measures to support those affected in the eye. First of all, these people must have our support, both material and psychological, and respect for their losses. Furthermore, the state must ensure that such disasters do not happen, on the other hand, if we happen to establish a more permanent, more stable support mechanism and not act on a case-by-case basis. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years you have constantly stressed that you will solve the problems you have created. If you were not an island VAT, we would not have experienced the eruption of the migratory crisis, nor would we have discussed the strangulation of the economy and society. Citizens know that and the polls will soon show you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Akrotiou Kouupidion Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Foreign Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we must not proceed without placing ourselves on what was said a moment ago in this Chamber. Forty-five years after the Polytechnic uprising the battle of youth and the Greek people against the junta of the colonists, the battle against fascism and racism even today inspire and demonstrate the irresponsible way against any form of fascism and racism. Especially today that we have issues with the extreme right in Europe that raises a head, we must be against some who are still unrepentant in this Chamber. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] In the first place, I would like to say that we have to complete the ratification of the 'other provisions' today by accepting the amendment by a general number of 1800 and a special number of 268. Today we come to vote in plenary for a series of Acts of Legislative Content that have passed this summer on various issues. One of these, perhaps the most important, is the Act of Legislative Content of 26 July 2018, which concerned the emergency measures that we took to support the affected and restore damage from the fires that hit the Attica regions on 23 and 24 July 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures were necessary and it was self-evident that the state's response to an unspeakable tragedy, a disaster that took with it people and the labor of life. From the first moment, as we said, nothing and no one will be forgotten. From our point of view, we are trying to do everything in our power to deal with the consequences of the disaster, so that the people affected can be helped in their struggle to rebuild their lives. As far as our portfolio is concerned, I would simply remind you that on the basis of the current NPA, it has been extended until 23 January 2019 for the payment of the confirmed and regulated debts of those affected by the fires and is suspended, until 23-1-2019, by 23-2019, by 23-2019, the payment of their dues. In addition, as it was of course, the affected were exempted from the payment of the HPAI for 2018, while an extension was made for the submission of E9 to 31-12-2018 for real estate changes in all areas affected by the fire in eastern and western Attica. We stress this because it has been heard in committee and here I would like to make it clear once again that anyone who has been destroyed or cannot be inhabited because of the damage can say it by 31 December in the E9 to get rid of the HNVY and for 2019 and then, if it is not inhabited again. It was also decided to remove the bank accounts seizures until 23 January 2019 and until the same date no new seizures shall be imposed and any confiscations paid or due to be attributed to the tax administration from 23-7-2018 to 23-1-2019 shall be returned to the beneficiaries without being offset and without any proof of tax information required for their payment. From there on, on all these issues, our communication with the firefighters, with the two DUs coming to serve the firefighters, is lasting and our ministry is always open to the questions and requests of people there or to whatever one needs and we will take further measures at any time. Ladies and gentlemen, since 29 June 2018 we are also taking the legislative act to extend the 30% reduction in VAT rates to the islands of Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios. There was never a factor of 13% on the islands that went to 23% or 24%. We have to clarify this here. The standard rate was 23% and then 24% and the decrease was 13% and there was always a 30% reduction, no matter what the rate was. Whatever the rate, there has always been a 30% reduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u268	The focus from 9% went to 24%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u269	A great deal has been transferred, Mr Mitarakis. From 9% went to 24%, yeah. But from there on, that doesn't mean anything. It means that 30% reduction exists up to now. I think we don't have to say much here. It was a negotiating success of our Government that we managed to lift a burden imposed on those islands that have been most affected by the refugee crisis. It was a measure that supported islanders last summer, supported tourism, economic and social life. In this sense, I think it was a national success and we all know that these successes are going on. Already in the Euro Working Group, it seems, there is a positive position on the non-repair of pensions. Our country manages to achieve the objective of a surplus and the positive measures included in the Greek budget are considered by the Euro Working Group to be in a development direction. I shall refer to a number of questions raised yesterday and I have to answer them today. To date three thousand two hundred sixty-five applications have been approved, a thousand seven hundred thirty-nine applications have been rejected and six hundred thirteen pending some corrective elements of the beneficiaries, and a total of EUR 15 269 135,84 has been allocated to three thousand ninety-one affected - natural persons. A hundred and fifty-six applications have also been made for affected enterprises and the sum of EUR 607,300 has been allocated to eighty-five firms affected. There has also been the issue of demolition certificates involving both the permit to demolition, obviously in order to facilitate citizens. Dangerous, prepared buildings autopsy protocols have been issued. And specifically for the East Attica, the buildings are thirty-thirty-six and eight in West Attica. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, there has been a decision to demarcate the area in order to obtain compensation from the Ministry. We're waiting for the evidence. And as soon as he's in the Treasury, the relevant decision will be made. I will also testify to the ministerial decisions and the POL for the use of any, made by the Ministry of Finance and the ASE. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, because there has been some discussion - I do not see Mr Koutsouko - on the Molyviat Fund, I would like to say that in a reply we have received as Ministry of Finance regarding a timely question - which, after completing the rest of the information, will be given the answer to the House - from the Bank of Greece is that the balance of the firearms relief account under number 2341103053, 10-10-2018, was 67.226,327,56. This account - I read just the document of the Bank of Greece - is part of the single government account. It is charged with orders from the Ministry of Finance - Directorate of Accounting General Government. The funds transferred are credited to the account 234800001, contributions by bodies to the implementation of the reconstruction work of the Ministry of Economy and Development, which is responsible for financing pre-specified public projects. There are other documents in the Ministry of Finance. The timely question will be answered as soon as the services complete all the actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, too. Three parliamentary representatives will follow from twelve minutes, Mrs Christophilopoulou of the Democratic Partnership, Mr. Treasury of the New Democracy and Mr. Mantas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, until Mrs Christophilopoulou comes to Stepa, I would like to say that I have first seen the Minister hear our calls. Because I have called on Mrs Papanatsiou twice to answer me, namely to do the work that the government should have done with a written answer for a year. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u272	That's good. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to comment on a broader development now taking place in the country for a moment. It seems, Minister, that the social security system that you are here with us is a green light - I remind everyone that we can now draw our own path - from Brussels and I am obviously certain that you will clear out the extreme and unjust and unjust provisions of the Katrugalo law on pension cuts by abolishing them. And of course we would remind you that a full, full proposal for a law has been tabled by the Democratic Alliance. And of all parties, of course, it has been tabled, but I will speak about our proposal for a law. It's a chance to vote on it. And don't forget the widow's pensions. You were the only government, Minister, who gave the Troika widow's pensions dry. So come on in and clear out what you have voted for yourself, and we will of course vote with you. Ladies and gentlemen, a year has passed since Mandra, a year since the murderous flood and the twenty-four dead, a year in which this city, with a great effort, is trying to find its pace again and has not found it. Still too many of the projects are slowing, delaying, blocking. And above all, Minister, the world in Mandra feels that tightening of the soul a year later that, perhaps, than people in Mandra tell me, now, a year after the mental burden is worse. So we must all stand side by side, the state and, above all, the government, the inhabitants of Mandra, and help to get away. What Mr. Skouros had left, and Mrs. Dourou had put them in drawers now, they must run. Let us hope that, because it is a pre-election period, the regions will run. So that's it for Mandra and we're going to the national tragedy in Matti. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not my intention to go and speak pettyly on ninety souls that we have lost. Nor is it my intention at the moment to abandon any responsibility to any factor, nor even to climate change, which has come to remain. Nor is it my intention to say that it does not block - and in other fires it has blocked, for example in 2009 in North Attica, in Agios Stefano - the issue of'stricken construction'. However, Mr Famelou's words do not give rise to controversy, but to remind the House of some realities, unfortunately. The Change Movement from the first minute, minute to minute, recorded, as our rapporteur has already told you, events with evidence and evidence. I don't want to tire you, it's not the time. But this is the time when he saw the light of publicity and which we continued to update with new information that came in the next few weeks and months - they are almost four months - to present it to Parliament's Minutes. We have a debt. I am therefore tabling the time of the fires, because apart from climate change there have been too many mistakes and we must finally learn from our mistakes in Greece. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm also sorry to remind you, but I have to do it in the memory of the dead. Don't have that look. I am sorry, not for Mrs Papanatsiou, but for Mr Famello, but unfortunately she touches the whole governing side. We heard the Prime Minister yesterday with how much he talked about. Is it possible that night to know, why are there unnecessarily evidence that you knew we already had dead, and that there are television conferences and the Prime Minister will be uploading photos on Instagram at 24.00 hours at the time of our fellow citizens drowned or burned? I put the photo to the record so we can remember it. There's a timeline. [[At this point the honourable Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And is it possible on the 26th of the month to hear from the Minister's lips at that time, Mr. Toska, that "I am trying to find the mistakes that have been made", I read it from inside, "...but I can't find any big mistakes"? And is it possible to sound from the firehouse, from the Chief, "if I came back a year, wouldn't I do anything different?" However, I want to slowly come to how this tragedy does not happen again and how to restore the people who are still affected and are in great difficulty. I should like to say that on 9 August the Prime Minister - and I would like to ask the government or the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - is making splendid announcements that the civil protection system will be changed. And they have been heard here by a number of colleagues and by various wings, and by Mr Karras of the Democratic Alliance, by our rapporteur Mr Koutsoukos, by Mr Apostleos on the SYRIZA side, proposals for changing the civil protection system. The Prime Minister on August 9th made a pompous announcement about a new system. At first sight, it seemed heavy. I have it here, and I can testify to it, but that's not the point. The point is that four months have passed and there has been no legislative initiative for this new civil protection system. Are we going to put the finger on the type of sunshine to see if we can be better or everything will be a communication show, as it seemed at the time we were dead? Finally, I think I have to submit to the Minutes again for the memory, but also for the fact that we do not forget or forget the letter of the young people from Matti about Mr Polakis' vulgarity with his post. It is also tabled in the Minutes because we must not forget. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Paraskevi, presents for the Minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, because this story has taken the way of justice, we as a state must, in addition to the civil protection system, unite our forces and do our best for these people who survived, for those people who are trying with all the power they have left to re-establish their lives, to rebuild their families, to rebuild their settlements and are really in great difficulty. You will also hear from our rapporteur, Minister, that we are voting on the legislative act. We had said that from the very beginning. However, it is our duty to highlight problems that exist, whether they concern your Ministry, which I think most of them do not concern your Ministry, or do they concern the competence of Mr Famelos or other Ministers, and I think they should be heard and heard. And here I agree, because the whole opposition had asked for it at the time, the proposal was for Officerial Response, but all the parties agreed that the commissions of the residents should come here and not just, and other bodies that we see, which we are talking about regularly and which highlight the problems. I therefore have and have tabled a similar statement, Madam Minister, and questions. I have heard Mr Famello say about environmental, anti-military and anti-corrosion projects of EUR 3 000 000. However, what is urgent - and no one objected and hastened to the process that he has mentioned - is the immediate treatment with more sloppy, smaller projects, studders and barricades. There, in the off-project area, there is also a study. Please, look at this. Now that winter is coming and November is a difficult month primarily in West Attica there is a greater risk. Besides, the maps Mr. Karras showed show this. But in Eastern Attica too, it is a pity to mourn damage, and I hope not to be victims this time. But this must be done quickly. Second, we heard about the asbestos. It has started, but it does not go as fast as it should and as far as we know, it does not go on in the pavement and other common points. And while the buildings have started work, on the sidewalks and in the public spaces it is not moving fast. Finally - and this is the big SOS - I will tell you about the coastline in Matti. Ladies and gentlemen, now that winter and rain are coming the coastline in Matti will retreat, it will disappear, it will fall, Mr Manda. So there's a lot of need. Because I have heard the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, say about these 35,000 euros, I would like to say this: I have asked the inhabitants - because we all have various offers from EUR 5 to what everyone can give - and what people have told me is 'do something for the coastline'. In addition to the great damage to the environment, the coastline, Minister, will retreat in winter. The roots don't last. The trees are burnt. I propose that all parties in Parliament support this because it is environmentally and economically correct. Don't forget that in the area of Marathon and Rafina we have six hotels, if I'm not mistaken, and several businesses. It attracts tourism, it's the Marathon, it's historical. Even in September of my repeated visits on the spot, I would say with some satisfaction that we had tourists in some of the hotels that stayed upright. So there is a great need, Minister. And please too, for something that also has economic, but also social importance in terms of protection, and that is that they have not entered security in the streets near the cliff in Matty. There is no electricity in some places, so it is difficult to cross vehicles. Please and the government to see it with our own actions while we can move. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. This has been done to other colleagues. I'm talking about specific things. For Article 12 of the MAGP, however, which concerns the provision of telecommunications needs, I must tell you that there is a chaos. I will say this with one example, ladies and gentlemen. In a building with eight apartments in Matty we have seven tenants taking this 1,200-euro aid and a family not getting it, because this apartment was not damaged. But he had no phone, no internet, no communication. I mean, the telecommunications impotence was there. It was not that they missed the door, but they missed it. So, since that's it, you can't tell who's damaged and broke a glass or two glasses, it's for everyone. Also, as far as the 5,000 euro allowance is concerned, I would like to say, Minister, that while the PPP is correct and we vote for it, the HR which you have issued specialises. You say about the affected natural or legal persons - I read from the inside - who are temporarily or permanently in an unforeseen, emergency situation, because of the fires, but then you forgot about that in the CSH. This was supposed to put in the DHS and put "when the property is damaged". This isn't just property damage, people have suffered...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u274	You're talking about HICPH?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u275	No, I'm not talking about HISPIA, I'm talking about the 5,000 euros allowance per housing. You'll see. He's inside the D.N.A. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am ending and thanking you for your tolerance, with two - three more thoughts. We have said many times, with Mrs Gennimata visiting the local commissions, from our experience to now - and I really want you to listen to me in this - that the most correct way of dealing with this issue, in order to avoid bureaucracy and the current one, is to have a single government coordination centre, as in the case of earthquakes. It will be a Secretary-General who communicates with all the ministries himself, it will be a Minister or a State Secretary, the Government decides, but we think there should be a single coordinating centre. Finally, two more topics. First, the integration of the village of New Voutza, either into one or the other municipality. It's a divided settlement. There's got to be a consultation. I have spoken with the inhabitants many times and have put the request for Mr Haritsis to be made myself. Second, it's the future. The renovation plans of the area, the great tool of urban reafforestation. I'm keeping what Mr. Apostle said as a forest lawman. This needs brave decisions, cross-party consensus and we need to see the capital, which is to be restored, but also to redesign in a fair manner and in a way that meets the needs of those people who have been so badly affected. Thank you very much for your tolerance. We won't forget the Matty. We must not forget the Eye, the New Buja, or the Silver Coast, in the name of the people we have lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u278	How many minutes do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u279	Very briefly, Mr President, because a number of issues have been raised by Mrs Christophilopoulou, I would like to respond to two points.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u280	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u281	Firstly, with regard to the joy the Greek people will obviously feel, because what the government has said has achieved with the pensions. I understand this joy that the opposition does not share.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u282	But we'll vote for it. What else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u283	Anyone who is listening today to this optimistic outlook for the country understands that it primarily shows and signals the follow-up. Because that's the most important thing. It is not just that we have an approval of the budget by the Euro Working Group, that it does not show that our European partners are not in doubt about the continuation of the efforts our country has made over the years. And that's the most important thing. Once again, when you have all said that this is not going to happen, you want to 'black' this joy, that is to say you tell us that you will bring your own amendment to abolish the cuts. But it's already happened, it's already gone, and it's done. With regard to the criticism of how quickly the projects, which had never been carried out in all regions of Attica, I would like to say that they had never been in the past, had not even begun. Now that they have started, that is done and are seen and seen by everyone, who opens the ravines, anti-military works are being created both in Mandra and in Matti and everywhere, and will we finally hear a 'bravo'? It is not reasonable - and people see it - to continue with this catastrophic logic. Finally, with regard to widowhood, we have to make an account of the consequences of the first memorandum. The first memorandum put 16.2% of the pension budget expenditure in relation to Gross National Product. It's known now. Calculating this expenditure, the lenders put in place that there can be no widow’s pension without limits in Greece and imposed what was in force in France. This has been said on several occasions to the institutions and to Parliament. This is the case in France with regard to the widow's pension. And what we have said is that we will improve as far as we can the measures on widow's pensions. We've done it. We have doubled the pensions of the OAU and the former IKA, we have tripled, quadruple the pensions of the OGA in terms of the minimum widow's pensions and we will take further measures. We have extended the rate of widowhood pension to children, when there are children up to twenty-four years old, and it is even extended for other schools and not just for universities. We have taken action on the deaths that have occurred - and you will vote tomorrow too - in Matti and in Mandra, especially in these cases. We have said that in 2019 we will take steps to suspend the pension provision when someone is under fifty-two years old or up to fifty-five years old. All this shows that we are improving things, too the country's commitment to limit expenditure to 16.2%, in which they incorporated and were in line, even though you do not want to hear it, and the subject of the CSCE. That was scheduled by you. And widow's pensions were scheduled by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u284	Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u285	Scheduled over, they were. And as planned by you, they were put to the discussion by the lenders. It was in no way our own initiative to take such measures to cut pensions at that level. It was a result of the great recession. It was as a result that as long as the economy was down, the expenditure rate was upwards. It couldn't be done differently. And it couldn't be any different from you, most of all, that you cut 63 billion euros all this time by pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u287	Because we're out of the bill, not leaving the conversation. Because if I give you the floor, the Minister will also ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u288	I would ask you, Mr President, to give me the floor because it has been referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u289	Personally, I mean. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, may I beg and challenge Mr. Petropoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u291	No, not the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u292	I would therefore ask that he bring us a piece of paper, not of the troika, because the troika had told us about France too. He told us about everything. To bring us a piece of paper, that we have accepted either the widow's pensions or this strange personal difference. And I would remind you that our cuts were on deficits in the period 2004-2009 that you so nicely cover the caramanli right. That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u293	Can I answer a moment, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u294	It doesn't make any sense, Mr. Petropoulou. Is there going to be a dialogue now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u295	Just a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u296	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u297	What's come out now is, finally, the truth. Indeed, in pension planning it was the cut in widow’s pensions. That has just been declared and that is what I said. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u298	By who? From the third memorial. All governments said 'no'. You're the only ones who went and gave this up. You gave it all up. All of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u299	Please! Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I shall avoid repeating what the diligent rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, said about legislative acts. I think he adequately analysed the matter. I will do and say a few things about the Matti issue. First of all, as far as VAT on the islands is concerned, the text concerning the alleged email Hardouvelis was read earlier. I therefore think it proved - and one must recognise - that the previous government had avoided the increase in VAT on the islands. That is what has been done with the present government. That's it. So, in this respect, the government has recorded a significant failure and partly now, with a slight suspension, is trying to give it political credit. Minister, it is extremely difficult for us. In any case, I think what you can do is accept the New Democracy proposal - you seem to have a very good relationship with the lenders - and go by the end of 2019 and see from there whether they can stay at least these islands under the low VAT regime. I come to the other issues, ladies and gentlemen, covered by the legislative act. I am thinking above all of the issues that concern the Eye and, of course, the flooding in Mandra, for which the New Democracy, in both cases, has repeatedly expressed its regret and perfectly, on the initiative of Mr Karaoglou, has been respected at the beginning of a minute's silence. It is heard in the Chamber by government officials and by many ministers outside the Chamber that the newly-known theory of what happened - I am now referring to Matti - is to blame for the arbitrary construction, the proximity of the forest, etc. All of this sounds like a sociological cavity. They go back to pathogens - no one denies it - of the modern Greek state, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that this does not just contradict the seriousness in itself, but it is a little exposing of those who say it. We should go to the narrow before we go to the wider. It is a matter of this: firstly, let us assume - and this is not the case - that there was a question of'responsibility' in matters relating to arbitrary construction. In this case, the present government should have dealt with this matter immediately with him who took over the authority. In any case, he has condemned the old system. He does it every day. Other information: (a) Involved in command in Genoa in 2015. So, since there is such a question that threatens human lives, extremely important, topical, the new government is oppressed and dealt with in any way that it can. I leave the pity they have heard that they have not found any funds for demolitions registered in the budget. It finds a thousand six hundred and thirty nine demolition operations. How many are running the first year? None. On the contrary, Ministers sign suspension proceedings. How many are running the second year? None. How many are running the third year? None. What are you telling us? Tell us to understand. Not only do you not perform one thing, but you start the evils with concepts, such as, for example, 'economy', which we in fact close the eye to new arbitrary buildings, with the wording of Law 4495/2017, from which the only thing you apply is the legalisation of arbitrary construction and the rest for regional building control addresses and the seventy-four building control departments you vote for and put them in the unusable locker. Nothing has happened so far. You are simply coming after a disaster that has deprived ninety-nine human lives, to tell us that arbitrary construction is responsible, without a trace of self-criticism. I'll tell you in turn. I've handled this. It's not an easy matter. I handled it for two years. At your disposal are the performance of fire and civil protection in 2012-2014. You'll see continuously lowering the burnt areas. Well, don't talk about losing human life. This is not acceptable with the means we have. First of all, who's in charge of handling it? Are there any responsibilities in the region? Apparently, there are. Are there any responsibilities in the municipalities? Apparently, there are. In the Greek state, however, who is the official responsible for dealing with civil protection issues? He's the Secretary General for Civil Protection. He is the only official who can act on his own signature, without even having to sign his Minister. Who did you choose? Who was the man, then, who had this strategic responsibility in Mandra. Do you remember who he was? What was that gentleman before, the former Secretary-General? I'll tell you what. He was an officer of the fire department. When was this fireman set up? He was judged on my day. How'd it get out? Did we make him a general? Did we make him a leader? Oh, no. He's deceived. He was deceived because he was found inappropriate to continue. The inappropriate person to continue you chose him as the Secretary-General for Civil Protection. And I'm telling you this: When I asked why I asked - why did the Council retire all the officers, to have knowledge of each other, do you know what they told me? "If we let him go, he could burn the stones," in words. That was the man who had the coordination. Ladies and gentlemen, I have seen all the flight plans. Where were the airplanes when the disaster took place in Matty? Who ordered the forces to move from east to West Attica and not to be able to return, instead of the normal design and come from the Peloponnese. Who's responsible for all this? Does the arbitrary construction have it? Well, let me know. The point where this fire explodes is where a fire is expected to explode every year, so the design shows that there is a fire car in a few hundred metres from the starting point of the fire. Was there that car or wasn't there? On whose order did he leave? When did he leave? Where'd he go? Why am I telling you all this? I am telling you that the insults in the memory of the dead constituted by reports on the alleged cause of arbitrary construction for those who have lost there. The early warning systems, all that had been ordered over my days, where did they go? Did they get it? They were working? What happened? We've got about everything. Airplanes are to a certain extent tired. By the way, this year's firefighting had a helicopter more than we had in our day. Nothing worked. Why didn't it work? The wind? Wind is not a problem when it has a given direction and a given speed. The problem with the wind is when it changes direction and surprises the powers. When you know where the wind starts and you have a weather report from the last day, you're ready for the wind. If every time a strong air was caught, the country was burning and we lost a hundred people. There would be no Greek alive today. Ladies and gentlemen, because I do not want to get far, but I sincerely regret the fact that, when there are victims, there are victims' memories and against these victims' memories, there must be great modesty and great attention, and in any case let justice do its job, not prejudge that for all it is the arbitrary construction and the Transmigration and Theodoros Kolokotronis and Charila Trikoupis and who knows who else it is. Of course, I cannot help but commenting on the irony of the ministers that the Prime Minister does not have. I'm just coming to the general situation and I'm just finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has launched an attempt to change political climate. SYRIZA - ANEL have chosen the single government as long as it is, the Scandalology as a vehicle of the political climate and has chosen the history of constitutional reform as well. As far as the issue of Scandinavianism is concerned, I would like to tell you that it is very interesting, instead of only the government dealing with anything else, to respond. There is one point on which it can well enlighten us: What has been done at the TIAD? This story of the concession of the Airport "Eleftherios Venizelos", Minister, which was initially agreed between TIPE and the concessionaire to 480 million, went to the European Commission and, when he returned, you were forced to grant it for EUR 1,382,600,000 plus VAT how is it explained? How does it explain that the privatisation body of the Greek State was ready to give the concessionaire something less than EUR 1 billion? How do these things explain? Have the facts been investigated all this time? What contracts has he made? Who's he done with? What's the price he's done with them? Can you respond directly to the opposition he asks and checks that everything is going well at the HIADED and that everything was going well over this period of governance by you? With regard to the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, I would say this: the New Democracy has tabled an extensive and serious proposal, with modesty and seriousness. In order to be able to discuss the issue of the Constitution seriously, we need a mild political climate, a political climate of consensus, a climate that will allow the political forces to see the future of the country, apart from micro-party planning and other purposes. Essential elections are extremely difficult, perhaps not impossible, but I must say that I cannot be very optimistic with the present government. However, what I hope at least is to save the opportunity to have a real, serious debate on a serious constitutional charter which the country has. Nothing is worse than a bad, presumptuous, desecrated and tiny-party review of the current constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u302	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u303	First of all, as far as Eleftherios Venizelos is concerned, we have to clarify here that it was the government that requested the review of the proposal and received the final amount, which was much larger than the original one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u304	The European Commission has asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u305	The government asked for it, and that's where it went from. From there on, with regard to our good relations with lenders, what we must say is that what we manage to achieve with our struggle and with respect to the citizens who have brought us to this government. We are fighting either in society or in our politics. That is what we have learned to do and that is what we are doing, and it seems that we are doing so very well. In fact, with the results that exist and you admit - and I would like to say this here - with your Chief - not in Greece, but abroad in the last few days - that after ten years the economy has developed. You can confirm once again and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u307	Please, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President, for your kindness to give me the floor and I thank my fellow Members for their patience. Madam Minister, I will ask you one thing: I accept what you are saying - it is not exactly like this, but it does not matter at all to this debate - that you have sent the European Commission, and that you have done so with the intervention of the European Commission, the concession, the concessionaire, to pay 1,382,600,000. The man who agreed to the 480 million what did you do? You have an agent who has the good of the Greek people for 480 million, and the concessionaire himself had agreed with him 480, comes and pays you 1,82,600,000. Didn't you at least have to fire the man who had agreed to 480? Is it ever thought that 480 is the result of a bad negotiation, full of dementia? You need to explain. It's not as simple as you know. It's not that simple. What you said most is very helpful because you seem to know that there is something wrong in the kingdom of Danimarkia than what you're saying to me. I'm not going to condemn anyone. That's not my question. My question is to explain to me how the property of the Greek people is administered by the elected government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I would like the floor again for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u310	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u311	You're probably forgetting that T.I.I.D. isn't our invention. It's something you brought to this place. H.I.E.L.D. isn't ours. It's something we found and we had to keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u312	Do we define the administration?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u313	The administration, who are the faces?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u314	The administration of HIAD to a large extent remains the one that was from your days.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u315	So it's our fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u316	Mr Mandas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u317	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me say once again that the Nazi structure, which had the terrible choice of days like the days we are living - which are day of memory and honour for the fighters, for all those who have been in one way or another in this great battle for freedom - has dared us to say names of the dead in the Polytechnics, is a misery and, indeed, of all the wings of this House, I think that there has been the reaction that has been, like the President-in-Office, as well as the President-in-Office, of course. I repeat that we must not forget this - days that are - never in the circumstances that we are seeing, unfortunately, going on, and at European level, our fight against fascism, against Nazism, against racism must be day-to-day, continuous and always vigilant. We are discussing today the ratification of the acts of legislation relating to the great national tragedy in Eye and the question of extending VAT reduction to islands, which are facing as a European entry - let us not forget this - this huge refugee crisis and which I think is a positive measure. Whatever we say - who did this or who did the other - at the end of the day is a positive measure. Minister, I think we need to see it again in the new period, in the new year how we can rethink it and extend it. And you also know that this is not done by voting without a review, with what that means, I mean, the procedure in relation to the institutions, the financial area and all these issues. At this point I am criticising you that it is populism to bring an amendment for an extension to bring the matter to an end. You know very well, because you have ruled too many years and in these memorial conditions, that these things are done through a process hard and painful. Of course, when we have an overall position of political forces in this direction, it is helpful indeed. But there are no proposals for legislation in a parliamentary procedure - you know that very well - such changes. As far as transport equivalent is concerned, which is an additional, different measure, but also the overall island policy that we are trying to implement - and there is indeed much to do - we need to make use of European experience and what really applies to the islands of the euro area and the European Union - and we will make use of them - at the right time. On the other hand, I repeat that it is positive that it is an approach taken by all political forces. You will obviously vote on it - you have already said so - all the political forces, if I am not mistaken, this positive measure that has been taken in this way, precisely to extend the measure of reduced VAT at that time. And in order for our debate to proceed, I say that there is no need at this time - only for a more central account - to say who did this, who did that or who did the other, but it is better to join forces when something can add positive things to the lives of the islands. I come to the subject of national tragedy in Matty. But I'll start with Mandra. To say two things, to be precise. One is that the Attica Region, from the very beginning, has committed 500,000 euros for a hundred sixty - eight flooding projects. In Eye, one thing that is very important - and I know it from the other projects is in the process, I would say, compromise or even start - and it was not in the previous design is the diversion of the stream of St. Catherine and the torrent settlement in Surrey. This work is for pre-contractual audit at the Court of Auditors and immediately after the conclusion of the contract will be concluded. The budget for this project is EUR 11 million. It's critical together with the other projects, but I know it a little, because I repeat that it did not exist in the previous design. It's a critical project for the region. This has to go ahead and the others as soon as possible. Of course, in these tragedies nothing must ever be forgotten. Everything needs to be explored. I think you also agree that there is a judicial investigation, which I imagine we must - and we must support this - bring all the issues to the surface, with its judgment and its independent function, so that not only will it be given responsibility because, obviously, when such a tragedy occurs, there are responsibilities and we must look for them, but also to correct in a very rapid way what we can, first of all, support the people and the region of Mandra and Matti. I repeat that the pain of these losses is unsubstantiated. It is pain that is not healed, but what we can heal, with our support and our help, we must do it and we will continue to do it quickly. All the positive proposals and remarks are there, I think, that we are listening with care and incorporating them as much as we can and as much as the financial capacity allows us. Here we must use all the financial tools we have to do so quickly. I would like to refer to the speech of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative who is not present and perhaps I am not allowed to speak. I'll just say one word. Mr. Dendias also had responsibility and he knows a number of things very well. He said some things that I personally - at least everything - can't answer. I think that he has been lured - only this observation - into an exaggeration that is not his usual style. He always speaks modestly on these issues and with caution. It is a serious matter, indeed, but what I think we should do is not invest politically in this tragedy. That's the first. Secondly, we should make it easier with our attitude and our political position to do its job, and thirdly, to speed up efforts to relieve these people and to incorporate as many positive comments as have been made by the people who are well aware of the region, I mean by the other political parties and Members who have a relationship with the region and know things well. Finally, on the issue of civil protection, because it has been raised, I think that we really need a great reorganisation in the direction that the Prime Minister has announced. There are moves in this direction. There are a lot of things that are running right now. Be sure that, when we have come to this plan, it will obviously also be the relevant legislative initiative, and that is where I imagine all the parties in this House to contribute, so that we upgrade civil protection, make it capable of dealing with even the most unfavourable conditions and, of course, operating in these critical areas. Finally, so that I do not forget it, it is a day and the one that, according to the information that comes from the EuroWorking Group, our country and our Government has a serious success that runs on the Greek people's effort and sacrifices, but it is also an effort and a concrete line and a political plan from our Government, from the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the non-cutting of the personal difference for pensioners who have a personal difference. I think that this is a very positive news added to other positive news that we have in this period and seriously and with a plan we are moving forward in this new period, in the memorial period, to alleviate the Greek people, but at the same time also to lay the basis for the productive reconstruction of our country, for a fair and sustainable development. There are many other measures that we are taking at the spatial level as well - the spatial plans of many regions and regions of the country are already coming out after the other - but also the great project with forest maps, a very critical issue which I think we have raised and implemented a step-by-step. This also applies to the region concerned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Excuse me. In any case, I think it is a period that, despite all the acidifications at times, there is a real programmed and substantial confrontation. This is the main area in which we will be judged on the next day and I think that we must insist on this in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u318	Thank you. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u319	Secondary, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u320	Secondary?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u321	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u322	Do you want a dentistry? Most people have covered the protology in time, but it doesn't bother me. Please, how many want a dentist? Everyone, from what I see. In turn, then, Mr. Symblene has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u323	Three, say. Mr President, I would once again like to insist on VAT on the islands, because there are things that go beyond reality here. Firstly, I will recall and say that on e-mail Hardouvel, on page 27, it speaks of a review of reduced VAT rates on the islands. What does it mean to review? Review may not mean further reduction when going to close the fifth rating, which the lenders do not close. It means an increase, so it had been accepted. Look at the text and the English and the Greek. So it was accepted. Secondly, VAT has nothing to do with the equivalent of transport. The islanders who have made use of the transport equivalent for up to an hour, 50 to 60 thousand - somewhere I think that it is, I do not have any data yesterday - that the use of the transport equivalent, which is spread to both businesses and fuel, is to the benefit of their income. Because he referred to Ikaria, etc. Of course it is for us in Amorgos over 2 euros, but this will all fall to the level of the 10-15-minute difference with Attica. Thirdly, I would like to say that, of course, for VAT, we will all strive for the islands to harmonise a single policy in the European Union, which will restore the island specificity as it should be. It is necessary to recognise the island specificity and through the reduction of VAT rates. Of course, we will fight and I believe that in the new phase that our country is going through, we can achieve it. The last thing I want to say is that because, unfortunately, Mr Denkias, although he is modest, has reached conclusions and has given a sense of responsibility, I would say that we should wait for the official findings and for the justice that is currently at the stage of the investigation, to see the findings and then to count on responsibilities, because it is easy to say, for example, that the Secretary-General has been deported because he was useless, but that is not the case. We need to look specifically and then, in fact, to those who have to pay tribute, to them. In any case, with regard to the airplanes which have been said, what we all know is that, with eleven bombers, they were stuck in the fifty crucial minutes in Elefsina, because the airport administration did not have the task of sending pilots into the fire at risk of their lives. All this has been a tragic occasion, which, of course, has been paid for by these nine nine people and by all those affected in these areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u324	Please, Mr Karaoglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, a great deal has been said about reducing VAT on the islands. The truth has already been heard. It was revealing that the documents were presented by a previous colleague, who assured himself that they were never in the famous 'e-mail Hardouvelis', which we should not forget that he proposed measures amounting to EUR 980,000, 000, while the lenders asked for 2,500,000,000 euros to close the second memorandum. That was then the red sail and we were moved by SYRIZA colleagues throughout the election period and finally, after they won the elections, led us to the famous 'heroic negotiation' of the flawless memory of Yani Varoufakis - of course, Mr Varoufakis was 'asset', the advantage of Mr Tsipras at the time - in the third memorandum, EUR 14,500,000,000 new measures, EUR 80,000,000,000 and all that. So there was no such matter. In any case, referring to this I could use the known proverb "Behold, Rhodes, behold and jump," saying: "Behold Lesbos, Leros, Kos, Samos, Chios, behold and the New Democracy amendment". Please very much, do you not think that the migration flows that exist will continue on a massive scale? Obviously, yes. Unfortunately, that is what it is. So vote for it and extend it for another year, to finish this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u326	We succeed with the lenders and we win some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u327	We have dared and come against lenders, when we have reduced VAT alone to the focus from 23% to 13% and revenues were more, dear colleague. With regard to the second issue, the other three legislative acts on the Eye, on the whole of the Eastern Attica and on the fires, Mr Tsipras spoke of an asymmetrical phenomenon on the night of 23 July. But be careful, often history is avenged. I read: "Your only obvious symmetry is the inability of the government to deal with the nightmare on the one hand and its excellent performance on communication findings on the other". This was a 2007 SYRIZA announcement when we also had the catastrophic fires in Elias. Did you see that a number of times the story's been avenged? I would therefore suggest that there should be a little more seriousness and a little more reflection. We must, of course, hear from SYRIZA and from the government as a whole something that we have not heard so far, namely a great apologies to the Greek people for the tragic victims of all the major disasters that took place during the disaster of July 23 and 24 with the fire in East Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u328	Mr Koutsoukos in terms of Democratic Partnership has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. At some point SYRIZA must decide whether there was e-mail Hardouvelis and what he said and not to invoke it according to the beam. Because when we told them that the e-mail Hardouvelis did not provide for the reduction of pensions, we questioned it. Well, today Mr. Symblene tells us that the e-mail Hardouvelis was talking about a VAT review on the islands. I am pleased, therefore, that there has been e-mail Hardouvelis, that it has proposed measures of EUR 980,000, and our lenders have asked for EUR 2,500,000, and with the third and fourth memorandum we have imposed measures on the Greek people EUR 20,000,000,000. On the substance. The specific nature of the island regions, Mr President, as a Member of the Dodecanese Parliament you know very well, is guaranteed in the European Union. I said to the committee that there are recent decisions that we have passed on to international conventions, where further islands of French sovereignty are recognised in the Pacific Ocean and have the prerogatives of VAT exemption. Can Greece not negotiate the reduced VAT on the islands, even now that the government claims to have 7,000,000,000 budgetary surpluses and when the General Accounting Office of the State raises the cost of the proposal we have submitted, in centimeters of the entire surplus? Well, we reinstated the proposal for a law, because the President did not bring it here the first time, as he had to, even though he had a report from the General Accounting Office of the State - Article 35 is our proposal - and we call on the government to bring it to the vote together. The second issue. Mrs Christophilopoulou has made a detailed reference to the time of the contribution. She filed the timeline in the minutes. I will not repeat it again, the government's responsibilities have been recorded. We will vote on the legislative act on the measures that have been taken in criticising what has not been implemented. And by insisting, through Parliamentary Control, that protection measures be taken, so that we do not have any further calamities from the floods that will follow. With regard to the amendment, which has been discussed in detail, I must tell you, in order to be recorded in the Minutes, that we have not been convinced that we will be making it easier and free of bureaucracy, the firefighting, because our view of home energy from the service in relation to the search for licences does not seem to be accepted. As a result, because our proposal is that we should no longer burden the already afflicted citizens, we will vote 'white'. And I hope that the amendment, as the relevant article describes, will facilitate firefighting. I'm done with this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this Chamber we may disagree politically, but we should at some point be those who have a responsible role - and the MP and the Minister of State have a responsibility - to say, at least in elementary terms, the truth on the basis of documentaries. In reply to Mrs Christophilopoulos, Mr Petersburg said once again that the PASOK government in the memorandum was committed to reducing the rate of pensions on GDP by 16.2 and that we reduced pensions by 67,000,000 euros. I would therefore refer him to page 8 of the government's holistic programme, which states that EUR 67,000,000 was to reduce the total expenditure from which a small part of the pensions were.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u330	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u331	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, pensions were reduced, not to the number that Mr Petropoulos says, but obviously our PASOK Government and then co-government had not committed itself, because there was a proportionate study that said there was no need for any further reduction in pensions. At least let's get to the numbers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u332	As I see the time and see that Mr Karaoglou had spoken seventeen minutes and twenty-one seconds, Mr Koutsoukos had spoken for fourteen minutes and twenty-nine seconds, Mr Germenis had spoken eighteen minutes and forty-three seconds, Mrs Manolakos ten seventeen minutes, I said that he should be confined to dentistry. You, Mr. Germenis, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u333	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u334	You don't want to, thank you very much. Ms. Manolakou, would you like to talk for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u336	Yeah, but we've got seventeen minutes already. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u337	Madam Minister, you answered the questions and clarified the issues of your Ministry, such as HISPIA etc. And you did well. They did not respond, however, to other ministries. For example, for High School III students and the commitments made by the Minister of Education. Also, health and home care issues remain, such as giving free of charge all the materials needed to restore their health, without the burners themselves having to run from service to service. We stress that all benefits for hospitals in medication should be free of charge as long as necessary, until full health rehabilitation. And of course, for what they're about to return from hospitals, etc., not to be trained in bureaucracy. As far as the environment is concerned, what do you mean? We say this because there is nothing to be predicted except that it is pertinent or part of the house. And why do interested parties say it and press it? Because there are cases where tools were burned in warehouses, as was done with a professional beekeeper who destroyed all his tools. Right now, that man can't live. In Article 11 in the third act, which you are talking about suspending auctions, the suspension shall apply until 30 September 2019. These people who are micro-enterprises have been destroyed and will take more time than expected to stand on their feet. I'm stressing them because they're pressing problems. As far as the amendment is concerned, we are constantly saying that, and I would ask the Minutes to write in capital letters! They need to be restored and rebuild all the homes, partly or totally destroyed, both in Eye and in Buja and in Kineta, along with the reform of the town plan, so that we do not have such tragedies again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u338	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u339	You're making this up? No, you don't. There are too many aspects indiscreet. You have brought the amendment before plenary is opened, so that it does not go hand in hand with the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. What are we afraid of? That they might be expelled and said a few, and SYRIZA's MP, a teacher in the profession. Promises can't be made. What we suggest and I'll finish. In order to ensure that the affected, we are sure that all sides will be answered clearly without questions, we propose that you withdraw it, that we discuss it in ten days at the latest - at the latest - with the affected and their institutions and we come back here to vote on it. Let's make sure no one stays out. If it is not accepted, we will not vote against it. We shall be expressing ourselves with 'the present'. I'm putting one last question marker. Why is the amendment that we tabled within the time limits not accepted? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Katsiki, do you want to be seconded for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Just for two minutes. I am sorry to note that matters which should find the consensus of all the political forces, on the contrary, are being debated in order to produce micro-policy, which will help to bring about a party benefiting from a national line that we must follow, when a piece of legislation or an amendment helps people, victims, firefighters and the victims of fire, who have been mourning a few months ago. That's what I really want to say that he feels sorry for me. I also regret that confrontation on the basis of a sterile policy, which took place in this Chamber during the plenary on two issues. VAT was one thing, and the other was the issue of arbitrary. As far as VAT is concerned, you took him to 23%, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. Don't forget. Do your self-criticism. It is now planned to reduce both high and low VAT. Co-operate with this and let us have a unifying climate between us. As far as arbitrary, true, since 1991, 1992, 1993, you have had demolition protocols in your hands. You have not demolished them and blame them on us for leaving the homes of poor people of labor and fighting upright. We didn't tear it down. Since 1991, in 1992, in 1993 why didn't you demolition them? And not only did you not demolition them, but you also made two - three laws to legitimize the arbitrary structures. Oh, my God. Don't blame where they don't, renounce yours. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, too. I would like to add something because I was invoked by Mr Koutsoukos as a Member of the Dodecanese and to be in the Minutes, because these have been declared. It is not that I make use of the President's position, but I want it to be written in the minutes that, in the first memorandum, the lenders have been asking to take part in the matter called VAT, to be equitable with the rest of Greece, without wanting to be found equivalent. So, then, and personally, and other colleagues themselves, with representations to the President of the Republic, we raised the national issue, namely what the Ottoman sultans, who had a special tax regime for the islands, have respected, in order to keep the populations on the islands. So now that the islands accept this 'invasion' of migrants and we do not know how population distribution is taking place, if they do not have any support, their economies will not be able to compete. And I say this in particular for the islands close to Turkey, where their economies will not be able to compete with the other side, so there is a risk that they will suffer a total catastrophe. That is why I personally said - without being regarded as a matter of a low level of policy - that I would not vote for the memorandum. The question was raised by the President of the Republic at the time and did not come to the House to vote on the relevant article, even though it was clearly written in the memorandum. My proposal and everyone - I imagine - is the government to take this issue back and bring it here and vote with pleasure, because the economy of the islands is in real danger, Minister. After that, I give him to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u343	I take the view that I and the entire government, Mr President, have your proposal, as well as the proposals of all Members. I said before that it was a measure that supported the islanders last summer, supported tourism, supported economic and social life and was a national success. We'll continue our struggles. From what you can see, we're going on. I also said in my speech before that the results of the Euroworking Group are positive. The pensions won't be cut. So we are doing our fight and we are bringing the results that we need, within the financial framework that we can have. In reply to Mrs Manolakou, I would like to say that on the issues of education and the relevant Ministry, as well as the Ministry of Health, your concerns and your proposals have been conveyed to the relevant ministries, as have the other speakers. We could not have some concrete results today to pass them on to you. I've already brought you evidence and answers from other ministries. In the next few days, we'll see. We are in contact with both the affected and the actors, and we are looking at their requests as best as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance : « ( a ) of 29 June 2018 Act of Legislative Content « Extension of reduced VAT rates in the Leros Islands, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios ( I 115 ) » ( b ) of 24 July 2018 Act of Legislative Area " Establishment of a special account for the relief of fires broken down in areas of the Lesbos Province on 23 and 24 July 2018' ( 135 ), ( c ) of 26 July 2018 Act of Legislative Area of « Extraordinary Measures to support the affected and the restoration of damage caused by fires in areas of the Region of Attica on 23 and 24 July 2018 » ( 138 ) and d of 10 August 2018 Act of Other Territorial Actions of the Region of Atticament and of Greece ( 2 July 2018 ) ( 2 July 2018 ). We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would remind you that the vote includes the principle of the bill, four articles, one amendment, the hotel article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. So please make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After you register your vote, you may change it or revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please, please, to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u345	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u346	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u347	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance : « Clear a ) of 29 June 2018 Act of Legislative Content « Expansion of reduced VAT rates in the Leros Islands, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios » ( A' 115 ), ( b ) of 24 July 2018 Act of the Legislative Content « Establishment of a special account for the relief of fires broken down in areas of the Region of Attica on 23 and 24 July 2018 » ( A'135 ), ( c ) of 26 July 2018 Act of the Legislative Area Act of " Exceptional measures to support the affected and restoration of damage caused by fires hit by Attica on 23 and 24 July 2018 » ( A' 138 ) and ( d ) of 10 August 2018 Act of the Legislative Content « Emergency measures to execute demolition and restoration of damages by Attica on 23 and 24 July 2018 » has been adopted by the following provisions :
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u348	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u349	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-15-S1-commons.u350	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.01' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 16 November 2018 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the proceedings of the House: (a) a reference to the Anniversary of 17 November on the insurrection of the Polytechnics and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate.
