ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the SYRIZA and forty-nine Members of his party have submitted a proposal for the revision of the Constitution. The proposal will be printed, distributed to the ladies and gentlemen and followed by the procedure laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. I also have the honour to inform you that MP Pierres Konstantinos Koukodimos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from December 11, 2018 to December 14, 2018, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-05-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you at this point that there were four topical and eleven second-round questions in the agenda for today's topical and urgent debate, but according to an update from the Government Secretariat, none of them will be discussed for the following reasons: The first, with number 109/29-10-2018, top-stage question by MP Kilkis, New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Proclamation against the commander of the Kilkis Hospital for laboring", will not be discussed as a result of a hindrance - cause: workload - of the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Polakis. The second, with number 100/25-10-2018, timely question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Evia) Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the hands of the Greek Police, while the illegality rises to the Greek universities", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasili, due to the misappropriated obligations. Also, the first under number 110/29-10-2018, a topical question by MP Larissa, New Democracy, Maximoumos Charakopoulos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "New outbreak of violence by marginal spaces", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasilis, due to unsuccessful obligations. The fourth under number 115/30-10-2018 topical question from the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "For redundant workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa, Elassonas, Farsalon", it will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, because it is in the Eurogroup. Also, the fourth under number 80/19-10-2018 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Constantinople to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Procedure for the licensing and retrospective taxation of online betting companies", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, because he is in the Eurogroup. The fifth, under number 77/17-10-2018, topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Recapitalisation and reordering of the Greek banking sector", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, because he is in the Eurogroup. The tenth under number 19/3-10-2018, a topical question by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The remainder of the Molyviatis Fund, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, because he is in the Eurogroup. Eleventh question under number 17/2-10-10-2018 of a second question by MP MEP I of the Thessaloniki Union of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of the account of the contribution of Law 128/75 to the aid of the East Attica" will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, because he is in the Eurogroup. The second question, under number 101/25-10-2018, on the second question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "Conspiracy of Children", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - because of the burden of work - of the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Kalogerou. The sixth question, under number 68/16-10-2018, of the second question of the Member of Parliament Phytiotidas of the New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Finance of actions from criminal actions against the Greek government and the allocation of funds for social purposes", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - because of the burden of work - of the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Georgiou Tuliarakis. The ninth, under number 36/8-10-2018, a topical question by MP Phytidis, New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "An overview of general government expenditure, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - cause: workload - of the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliarakis. The third, with number 99/24-10-2018, timely question for the first cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "The need to increase military service" will not be discussed. The seventh question, number 55/11-10-2018, on the second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the refugee hospitality centre in Scaramaga" will not be discussed. The eighth under number 2/1-10-2018, a topical question by MP II, the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Ancillary violence was carried out by EL.AS. The demonstration of Thessaloniki that took place against the Prespecies Agreement will not be discussed. Finally, the third under number 111/29-10-2018, a timely second cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassidiari to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Damage management of secret funds", will not be discussed, because the Minister answered a similar question of the Member of the same parliamentary group and considers that the case has ended with his written reply. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-11-05-S1-commons.u3	With the consent of this House at 17.10 p.m. the sitting is closed next Thursday 8 November 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
