ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-4-2018 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting of 18 April 2018, with regard to the vote in all draft laws were confirmed by the Bureau:]] (a) 'Preparation of the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Hasimite Kingdom of Jordan and other provisions'; and (b) ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of Canada and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Romania and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Slovakia and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the United Nations and the Ministry of Defence in the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the United Nations’. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 20 April 2018. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1508/16-4-2018 by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “The corrosion of saints and effects on coastal areas of Achaea”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1403/27-2018 topical question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on "No discrimination in the banking supply of credit and debit cards". 3. The 1388/23-2018 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Turks are engaged in smuggling tobacco within Greek territorial waters". 4. The 1404-27-2018 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Construction within areas within the jurisdiction of the port administration and exploitation bodies". 5. The Question No 1378-22-2018 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the hazardous waste of HYTEA in the Hellenic Republic. 6. The 1261/6-3-2018 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Sustainableity of the Factory of the Greek Sugar Industry of Orestia". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 1792/4-12-2017 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "A programme for cross-border cooperation between Greece and Italy (2014-2020) with regard to the Municipality of Paxon". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 4126/217/3-2018 of the PASOK Democratic Asylum - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the public's contribution to cover part of the debt of natural persons borrowing housing loans and the need to extend the contribution to the guarantors as well. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS According to the statement by the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou to Parliament, sixteen questions will be discussed today and eight will not be discussed for different reasons. The first question with number 3945/28-2-2018 question of the circle of petitions by the MP for Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “The problems of the irrigation - drainage network of the Prefecture of Ilias are being multipliered. “Government fish” shall not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad.’ The third, with number 1487/12-2018, a top-stage question from the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Expansion of the Rescue to Fichtia - Monastiraki - Mycenas", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Apostleos. Cause: government mission. Similarly, the eighth Question No 1375/20-3-2018 by Mr. Pellis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Continuing to remain incomplete the customs producers", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Apostleos. Cause: government mission. Also, the tenth question under number 133/26-2018 of the second-round question of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chryssolou Katsavria - Siloropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The upgrading of the Centre for Animal Genetic Resources Karditsa, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr. Apostolou. Cause: government mission. The Fifteenth under number 1149/26-2-2018 topical question by MP 2 of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Knowledge of the para-state website became the unprecedented attack on the A.T. Cesarean’, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska. The seventeenth under number 1151/26-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Questions regarding the case of agent based on the revelations of P. Kammenos", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Toska. The second question under number 1495/16-24-2018, topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Law of Serres", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport. Cause: Confirmed program. After the deletions, we move on to questions. We begin with the seventh under No. 1394-26-3-2018 topical question by Attica MEP Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Delays in the process of issuing the new identities'. The Deputy Minister of Interior will answer Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Please, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We had already discussed this on 14-2-2017. It's been a long time since. As you know, the issue of the extradition of new identities is a central issue - as I understand it, there is no political disagreement on this issue - and it is fully linked to the issue of the security of the country. It is linked to dealing with terrorist threats, linked to border control, is linked to the service of citizens. So it's a very critical issue. There is no policy against it. In other words, there has been no one who says that for some reason we should remain in the old identity cards and not proceed with the issue of new identities. So here we have no political debate. We have a question of implementing what needs to be done. So the last time - and I recall that this was on 14-2-2017 - Mr Toskas informed me that at the time the whole process was at the stage of evaluation. It has been a long time since, and I want to know where this process is, what we are doing if we are moving forward. Surely this story must be finished, completed, published, because it is also one of the points where we are controlled at international community level about what we have done. This omission is one of the points on which there is a more general requirement. I am not saying now that our priority or priority must be to place the international community - although it must also be taken into account - but we must do what we need to do, because it is right to do. I would therefore like to know where this process is, how it goes, how quickly we will have these identities ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Voridis. First of all, let me remind you of a few things: in 2000, a decision was taken in the European Union that by January 2006 all the countries of the European Union had to adapt, modernise their identities for their citizens. In 2013 it was submitted by the Police to the then Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Order, Mr. Andreoulakos and the Minister, Mr.Notice, an initial proposal of the Police Committee for the preparation of technical identities, which did not proceed. We even started from scratch. The competent committees of the Greek Police have drawn up the technical specifications. We got standards from all the modern, main European countries. The technical specifications have been drawn up. There have been corrective steps, because when you start with zero this is happening, and at the moment it is a matter of days, not weeks, the invitation to companies in particular of the European Union, in order to start the process of issuing identity cards. As you know, the Commission's communication on identity issues throughout the European Union and other countries came out the day before yesterday. There are also large countries which do not have modern identities. They may have much worse identities than we have. The fact is that at airports and where there is a check, the check is beginning to take place electronically. There will therefore be too many difficulties for citizens who travel with their identity if they do not have a modern identity. In relation to the 'Visa Waiver' programme you mentioned in your question, I would like to inform you that after two annually successful US evaluations there is no problem for Greek citizens' travel to the United States with visa. It can be done without a problem. The American side is absolutely satisfied with the actions that have been taken on bilateral security issues and on the issue of identities. There are also corresponding reports from 'EUROPOL','INTERPOL', which refer to very few comments, many of which are in classified documents, and that is why I cannot present them here, but I can show them to you. There is therefore no problem with international cooperation. I'm coming back. It's a matter of days and not a matter of weeks to get the ID notice out. This will be combined with the extradition of eleven other public documents, printed by the Greek Police, because in March 2019 the contract for all these documents expires and to achieve better prices we make this combination. I can brief you on the details, of course, anytime you want. Therefore, it is a matter that, after many sufferings, many delays, which are not mainly due to the era of current governance, I think it reaches a happy ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Vorides, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Look, I hear that within the days, as you say, a proclamation is going to come out. I would like further information on the course after the call. In other words, after issuing a notice which dates are set, what time will it be reserved for anyone who is to be guaranteed, what characteristics does this notice take, who is called. I would therefore like you to say a little more about how this process is progressing. One is that. Secondly, although it is not part of the question, I think you are obviously aware of the increased sensitivity that the international community now has, and we must all have, in the areas of terrorism, the fight against terrorism and, in particular, international terrorism. I am bringing this to you, and in my capacity as chairman of the Special Committee on the Fight against Terrorism of the OSCE parliamentary assembly. It is a very high priority. Recently adopted in December 2017, a resolution by the United Nations, adopted unanimously by the Security Council in 2396, and there has been no reservation from Member States and which has made recent obligations, to which I shall come back with another question. Because there we again have additional obligations in relations, particularly with flights and international cooperation, which must also be involved in the exchange of information in the very direction of ensuring, ensuring, maximum security and maximum control by terrorist threats. Now, what I'm saying is that these are important things and they have to run at a very high speed. I am not going to go into a debate now 'the previous ones', 'we get 'we', because I do not think this debate is productive. You are three-and-a-half years in the government and you have the responsibilities for a government which has been at the wheel of the country for three and a half years. What is very important, however, is that, from now on, this thing moves forward, as is the country's obligations, linked to dealing with international terrorism, to being fulfilled and fulfilled in good time, with particular sensitivity. Why? Because Greece especially has the features of the country that is accurate in relation to the European Union and therefore it is a country that crosses migrants and refugees. This all raises additional issues of border security and border control. Therefore, various things that are linked to the development of systems, particularly technological, which allow this kind of security, clearly need to be the absolute priority, especially the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Interior in general. I have this sensitivity - let me tell you - the political priority that you need to give to these things. And I would just like to know more about this timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u7	Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u8	Mr Voridis, I would be happy to hear from you in the next few days, to talk to you and to inform you of the details it needs for the course of the ID program. As far as the general issue of security is concerned, you know that currently our country is a pillar of stability and security. We do not just say that to bless our beards or serve our interests. Foreigners say so. When you come to the office, I will show you confidential documents from foreigners, who are flatteringly speaking about cooperation on security and protection against terrorism and extremism. The question of security is one of the main priorities of this government. Indeed, our country is geographically at a hub point and is a first-line country in which there is very great instability. We must and are in constant vigilance and constant cooperation with the respective police or services of other countries in order to ensure the security of both Greek citizens and the rest of Europe. This has been recognised in writing by my oral counterparts, like in France, in the United Kingdom - whom I recently visited - as in Germany. There is excellent cooperation and I can say that our country's cooperation with these countries in dealing with terrorism is much better than other, more modern countries in Europe. I would like to inform you of the issues you have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. The twelfth will be discussed under number 1326/16/3-2018, a topical question by MP II Athens, the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Police at the VIP guard." Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to remind you that at some point in August 2016 I had asked a relevant time question and then they had come out of the four hundred fifty police officers from the offices. Yesterday, in interviews you gave, I was glad to hear that about eight hundred policemen will come out on the streets, patrols, etc. I'm not one of those who's blindly criticised. First of all, I would like to say a bravo to the police and for the shining plants and for Georgian and for many other things that he has done. The statistics really deserve you. I also want to say very quickly that university asylum is not about the police. It's a central issue of the Ministry of Education and we'll have to see it sometime. It's not about the police. A lot of people are throwing you responsibilities that don't belong to you. There are many words about Exarchia and Ruvikon. With simply Greek, whoever violates the law wherever it is, you agree, and I think that's the right thing to do, it must be punished, the law applied. In particular, I would like to say the following. Activistic organizations, in fact extremes, there are many. When an action touches the lawlessness, I think it should be punished. For me, it's unsolved issues. There's no ghetto of Excavations or anything. I'm one of those people who's going to Exarches too often and I don't mind. But that is my point, Minister. I'll talk to you with numbers. France has sixty - six million inhabitants and has a hundred forty - five thousand policemen. I keep a reservation to fall out of two or three thousand, because there are reclassifications. Ten million French people are policed by twenty-four thousand policemen. That's what the number says. Spain has forty-six million inhabitants and has eighty thousand policemen. I'm telling you neighbouring countries. I don't want to go to anyone else. The ten million Spanish - the population of our country - is policed by twenty - twenty - one thousand police officers. Greece of ten million, correct me if I'm wrong, Minister, at least my information says it has about sixty thousand police officers. If I'm wrong about three or four thousand, fix me, but it's there somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u11	Fifty-two thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u12	I'll take it. For God's sake. With simply Greek, then, it seems very well that the policemen in Greece are much more proportional to the population than to France and Spain. What's my pain? I think they're also residents. A large part of the Greeks feels that many policemen are in the offices, Minister. I said again that I commend the opinion that four hundred fifty came out and eight hundred fifty come back. There are few of them in my opinion. This story has to be finished. In Britain, graphic services make them simple citizens. And police officers who have served for over twenty - five or thirty years have a right to some sort of leniency on easy targets. But they're not in the office either. What are you thinking of doing any further? Again, your decision is positive for the eight hundred fifty, positive for the four hundred fifty that took place two years ago, in 2016. I separate my position so that I don't get misunderstood. I have a very good opinion about the Greek police, and I'm telling you sincerely. However, in three and a half million people in the Lecade can not serve a thousand five hundred - correct me if I am mistaken that they may be more at the moment - and not know some policemen if they turn their night home, at the same time as for high-level politicians, for former MPs, for former ministers, for entrepreneurs, for artists, for journalists, there are more than three thousand available. Let it be less than two and a half thousand. I told you in my first question. That's a positive move. I am of the opinion that it should be strengthened. It's a requirement of objective circumstances and not my personal. This whole thing is shining, and it's fine, in my opinion. There can be no question in a country where there are four times as many police officers in relation to France and Spain as there is a problem of police officers in the offices. I say it directly and I may become an unresponsive person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u13	Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, Mr Papachristopoulos, thank you for the question and I would like to say that you are not being disliked at all. We are trying together, we are trying with all colleagues here to exchange views in order to improve situations that were constantly going worse during the previous governments. I invite you to remember if in previous years there has ever been a debate about the fact that the police have not been sufficiently reduced, and that is because there was simply no reduction, there was only an increase. Only upwards were the numbers for the guarding of anyone who asked for a police officer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u15	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u16	And you know, it's not an easy case to spoil acquired assets that have been established for too many decades. Ask me, as soon as I announce a reduction of some police officers, what strikes I take underneath. No one comes to tell me "why you removed the cop." He finds a newspaper, finds some means and hits. We believe, however, that this is the right path. We decreased, as you said, four hundred and fifty people. We aimed above, we reduced four hundred fifty, and now we are reducing eight hundred. Of the two thousand percent so many, eight hundred are an important number. The largest number relates to MPs, government officials, members of the governing party. Although SYRIZA does not have a history of many years of government to accumulate these police officers in old politicians, old MPs, old ministers, yet to give the good example, we are reducing - the committee responsible is looking at cases and reducing - from too many categories of people who have police officers, mainly because they want to present a status of power and not because there is a real risk of security. Security seeks - and so it must be - each Greek citizen and much more the weak Greek citizen who needs more security. That is what we are seeking. We are in this direction and we will continue to be, because there will be another phase of reduction, so that we can reach the standards of the European countries you mentioned. There are, of course, some peculiarities in the distribution. There is the geographical distribution of our country, the island needs, mountainous areas, etc. We do not have the level of territory of other European countries, the single geographical area, so that there is a central presence of the police which will easily be directed where the problem exists. There's one excuse, but that's not the only problem. There has been a distorted distribution for so many years. It became the reorganization of police stations with many glimpse of local actors who wanted to have a police station, a flag there, and let it be an empty building. It became the reorganization after a lot of consultation with local players, they were persuaded in most cases, they saw in most cases that this is productive, that is, it is effective to concentrate people, because if there is only the empty building it does not provide security. They are steps that break bad habits of many years, but we try and keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u17	Please, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u18	Minister, first of all, I doubt nothing you say. You're at a Ministry of Silver Warehouse. It's not easy, Ministry. Let's be honest. However, the numbers help you. Reality helps you. Allow me to say a little "objection" to you that I am one of the MPs I have no security, and I do not feel the need to employ a police officer and I would feel very guilty, very guilty, to have a police officer when I don't need him. And I'm telling you, I haven't had anything to do with it. And I'm running around with a machine, and people see me, someone can tell me a word. I say this because I believe that there must be consistent projects and speeches. What do I mean? "Love and boldness want freedom," Calvos said. Will you dare, Minister? Because I'm talking to a lot of police officers, too many police officers, I'm going to tell you again the number, which I want to clarify. Is that so? Are there a thousand five hundred policemen? Because I know that in some police station the third shift doesn't exist, Minister, it doesn't come out. There are areas, especially in Mesogeia, where the third shift doesn't come out and it's a skull place. You will also be in favour of the government, especially in favour of the country to see police officers on the street again. I'm on it again. It sinks the universe positive energy with the four hundred fifty, positive with the eight hundred fifty. I think it's not enough. I was pleased to hear your interview - and you have repeated this yourself - that this will continue until we reach the level of other European countries. That is why this is being done here, parliamentary control, so that we can improve. I'm telling you, there's nothing wrong with the cops either. I also told you in my previous question - and I repeat it now and I am not talking about the policemen guarding a minister or a Member of Parliament, all right, let us leave that - in many respects, in favour of policing, so that I do not use another word, you can apply Rotation. I did it as a director of my department at the hospital "Evangelism". He didn't want anyone to go to the O.R. or to the labs, because that's where he doesn't have a client. They all wanted to be in the outer office. Every six months, then, he had a rotation. I can't keep seeing the same young people. There is the Triangle House - Maximos - Presidential Palace. I'm telling you again, I'm being mean, but that's the truth. For God's sake, no one says they're not gonna police. I'm not talking about it. I think it is too much, you say that, without reservation. I can't see the same young people twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, thirty-six years old, because if it was a cop who served thirty years, I'd say fine. That's what I told you all along. That is what I believe can be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u19	Please finish, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Mr President. In Great Britain only the ministers have police officers, the MPs don't. That's how Joe Cox was murdered. I'm not tough. I'm not saying that people shouldn't have any, not the D.I.A. or any of the prosecutors who deal with a case. For God's sake, that's where I'm going to criticize you if you don't have any police. See it again. And what you said you were taking a lot of phones, I know. It is a virtue and bold desire for freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u21	Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u22	Only for lack of boldness have they blamed me so far. Mr. Papachristopoulos, because you spoke of the triangle of the center of Athens, if it opens up, today the radio will hear about thirty people in West Attica, Corinth and other areas that have been fraudulent with car sales. You will hear about the arrest of a "Great Mafios" in Thessaloniki. And you will hear many other successes of the Greek police.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u23	I told you in my first speech and congratulate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u24	On the question of reorganisation, on the question of the redistribution of staff who will increase and increase the effectiveness of the Greek police, we are moving forward. We are moving on to a time that has particular problems. Remind the nine hundred, about, police officers who have gone to the islands to help with the issues of immigration, situations where there were no other times. We have to work in many directions, but I think it's going very well. And we will continue in the direction I told you before, in the direction of rationalisation and in the direction of reducing staff from prisons and spaces, even if some people want a little more time to get used to the idea that they can live without excessive guarding around them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u25	Minister, because I, too, had asked a similar question, but to a previous Minister from you, it is another - and you said so - the preservation of the VIP and other representatives of Parliament because, as Mr Papachristopoulos said, a Member of Parliament killed it because he disagreed with her views. In other words, it is not personal to keep Members, the Ministers, etc., but it is in the performance of their duties. This thing cannot be violated, which is proved to be invaded elsewhere. In my view, therefore, it is important to distinguish VIP guards, because they may have their own security, most of them having financial self-interest, from the mandatory guarding of the representatives of the people, who can often be abused and abused. That's a place that I think you're in love with.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, you are right. We won't fall into the popular mistake of leaving the politicians or other citizens who...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u27	They represent people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u28	We need balance, and we are moving in that direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Next is the tenth third under number 1316/13-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Increase in insecurity in areas of Patras". Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think I'm going to surprise you positively today. We won't have the usual controversy between collision and confrontation. I want to convey anxiety, I want to convey my voice to fellow citizens on issues relating to insecurity and crime in certain areas of Patras. I take this opportunity to tell you that I have also given public congratulations to the Achaea Police Directorate for the excellent work it does, with whatever means it has, and with its submissiveness, I would like to come back and discuss in particular the means available to deal with infringements and crime in particular in the mountain volume. But both the Achaia Police Department and the Security Department are doing an excellent job. I think from the statistics, which I can use, it comes out that the area of Achaea is one of the best in the forensic statistics you have. I would like to refer to two facts which I would like my fellow citizens to discuss and receive an answer because they are following you today. The first is Olgas Square, Minister. Olgas Square is a central square of Patras. Drug use and drug trafficking take place at any time of the day, beside children's playgrounds, where especially now we have children, families, citizens who spend some hours in the square. I think that there is a need for special attention on your part, because of course it is not just the use of drugs from the Ministry of Civil Protection, but it is also a matter of policing, because traffic is taking place in the middle of the road. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for thirty seconds. Secondly, in Patras, as you know, for about a year and a half - two years we have two informal camps, anti-immigrant and refugees with a view to going to Italy themselves. I will not concern you with immigration policy issues. However, I will tell you this: cases and the presence of organised crime, human trafficking circuits, migrant trafficking circuits have been detected. There have been instances of exploitation and insulting the sexual dignity of those people who live in inhumane conditions. Already Vice-President Achaea has written to Mr. Vica that the buildings in which these occupations have been held are dangerous and prepared, abandoned factories. So the residents of nearby areas are in great insecurity. I would like your position on what is the prospect and plan of the Ministry of Civil Protection's plan for evacuating these informal camps and restoring the sense of security for the residents of the surrounding area. In my dentistry, I'm going to give you certain details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papatheodorou, I am starting with the drug problem, this huge problem that is plagued by our societies, with issues affecting all areas, from health to safety, up to anything. You know, you mentioned it yourself, it's not just a police matter, it's a huge problem. The Greek Police give a very big race, both in areas within Attica and outside Attica, in order to ease, if you like, situations. It is at a dead end many times, when people sick, users, with very small amounts, which have nothing to do with quantity trafficking, are being arrested. There is the problem of dealing with these situations. I am talking about large-scale phenomena in all European countries, in all societies. So it's issues that the police are asked to deal with, but it's not just a police matter. You're gonna tell me because it's not just a police matter, are we not supposed to do anything? At the level that we are concerned with, we will look at the issue of Olga Square, because in fact, in central squares, in places where children play or are close to schools, there are extensions and young children may be affected. I shall therefore see that. I'll go to the second topic, the migration. Indeed, there is a accumulation of four hundred - four hundred and fifty people in various places, in ABEX, in "Ladopoulos" and in other places, in virtually three places, which you know much better than I do. One area is also supported by the municipality, but in some ways the other spaces are not. We have recently started some operations and controls so that those who do not have asylum documents are arrested and taken to detention centres. Also, at the moment, in cooperation with the Ministry of Migration Policy, an effort has been launched to drive minor children, about 50 if I am not mistaken, into places that ensure health and good conditions and not the ready-made buildings that you mentioned before. It is a difficult problem, it has to do with security too, and it has to do with other issues, which have been on the rise lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u34	Minister, I would like to give you some specific information. There has been a coordination of the bodies in the southern sector of Patras, which suffers from these insecurity and crime. These are the areas of Kryra Iteon, Lefkas, Naples, Glaukos, Terpsis, Patras Beach. These areas, indeed, have been mobilised. We have also participated last Thursday, along with the other Members, both MPs from SYRIZA, in a meeting with the institutions and residents. People say: "Look here we are experiencing a situation that is very difficult. We are not racists. Indeed, they are not racist. They're people living in a working quarter. Around are working districts around this area. It's just, there's insecurity, there's a risk of physical damage, there's a risk of ownership. Many mothers denounce that their children have been watched by people who behave - if you want - dangerous toward them, many have found burglars inside their home and have been robbed. I think insecurity is a bad counselor for xenophobia and racism. I repeat, these people are not racist, at least as I and other Members have discussed. But they're scared. I think it is your responsibility to restore the sense of security, because the police give about six hundred people that they are in the three factories. Some people say it's around the thousand. You said earlier that fifty minors are in these abandoned factories under inhumane conditions. When the event was reported to the mayor, Mr. Peletides sent the municipal services two days ago to clean up and disinfect the space. They're really in conditions that are unsustainable for people. Also, what matters is that it is indeed the police in the outer area who have made some incubations. Some with the help of NGOs or the assistance of the IMM when they are asylum seekers go to structures and when they are irregular immigrants, they may be detained in Corinth if my information is correct. But what we have to see is that, until now, there have been two deaths of accidents. We do not get to shed tears after the next fact, because no one knows how many people are in it, because no government agency has entered these areas. That's the one. Secondly, only non-governmental organisations and solidaritys can provide us with information, but also with the flow of information they want to give us. And thirdly, there are also lonely adults, young people, who, you know, often fall victim to sexual abuse. There's an immigrant movement, human trafficking, known in the area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] When I accepted the question, "Why don't you go, for example, to report it to the prosecutor?" I said that this thing will be brought to Parliament. I think that the police are also aware of them, and you will have to command them, so that there can be police intervention, that organised crime is a serious crime, and that crime is the most effective way to deal with certain criminal offences in the wider region.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u35	Finish, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u36	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, Minister, we must protect vulnerable people, move them to other structures, protect minors, protect the young lonely adults who are inside, break the prostitution circuits, break the migrant traffic circuits. From there on, because the situation has been deformed, I think - I have proposed it - that within the competence of the police it is to intervene to protect these people from evacuation of the two camps. I have made this a public proposal. It's up to you when and if that happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a request. Since today's questions are sixteen and then there is a bill, if we can apply the Rules of Procedure on time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u38	Mr Papatheodorou, in the area of Patras there is a significant reduction in the robbery - it is less than 25% - and the use of drugs - less than 20% - there is a reduction in crime. However, there is the problem you mentioned with the concentration of many immigrants. In recent years we have had some increases in border entrys, especially from Evros. There are issues, issues difficult and complex, which unfortunately are not solved within a day. There is cooperation with the relevant Ministry of Migration Policy and we are trying to find solutions so that we do not create a great deal of concentration, because this really poses a lot of risks. At the moment we are in a phase in which we have started systematic checks and then we will do what we have to do so that there is no greater concentration or evacuation of these spaces, which are not indeed the best in terms of health and safety for the people who live there. I can tell you that at the moment it is our main concern with the Ministry of Migration Policy. However, we are also trying to resolve this effectively, but also with respect for both the inhabitants of the region and the immigrants. I repeat, we are trying to resolve this in the best possible way. It's something we're concerned about and we're trying to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u39	For traffickers, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u40	The traffickers are a difficult issue. The traffickers are usually mixed with some other immigrants and are difficult to distinguish. We're doing everything we can, especially in remote areas. Evros and the islands have recently been arrested, because that's where our main goal is. If we isolate the traffickers and they are arrested, then they will not be able to move themselves. We're doing everything we can. Be sure, Mr. Papatheodorou. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u41	We move to the fifteenth quarter with number 1286-12-3-2018, a topical question for the second cycle of Members of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomenakis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Captaining gaps in the Fire Corps from participants of the 2011 competition.” Here you go, Mr. Balomakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as known by Law 3938/2011, they were recruited as permanent firefighters and were left out of two categories of candidates, one from the category of citizens and the other from the category of seasonal firefighters. Then, by the spirit of that law and by practice, it prevailed that the gaps from these categories were covered by the so-called 'lists', which were renewed. In fact, Minister, the power of a 'list' has expired. The other seasonal fire extinguishers apply, as you know. And right now, if my information is correct, about eight hundred, seventy-six seasonal firefighters are left in 'lists'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The point is that there are gaps in this House today, which must be covered, as everyone understands, and the request is to re-activate the possibility of these people join the classes of firefighting, precisely because the will - I imagine - of the government is once again to end the phenomenon of seasonal and contract contracts and to have stable employment relationships and, above all, to fill the gaps and needs, in view of the current anti-missile period which, unfortunately, began this year too early.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, Mr Balomannakis, thank you for the question. You are referring to a complicated subject. We have discussed many times about the various categories of fire extinguishers, who have occasionally been hired. You refer to the category of these citizens, who in 2011 participated in the tender for the recruitment of four thousand fire extinguishers five years of obligation. The reformed tables lasted three years. Subsequently in 2004 the power was extended for two additional years. In 2017, the tables were extended by Law 4483/2017 for a further two years. We are talking about seven years in total. The Fire Corps and the Civil Protection Department take into account all possibilities. You are essentially referring to a number that is not exactly seventy vacant posts, but about fifty-four of what the Fire Corps informed me. Indeed, there is a very small number, which will not seriously affect the Ministry's budget. It's something we see. At the moment I am not ready to answer you, since the validity of these tables is until the end of the year. But we're trying. After the very great efforts made to permanentize the two thousand or so hundred year-old fire extinguishers who had taken the three-year arrangement, and then permanently, the government - you saw it - far shorter than everyone expected - solved the issue in cooperation with the Ministry of Reform. We are trying to resolve situations and distortions that have been created for too many years. Now with the Pan-Hellenic Examinations, the entrance of fire extinguishers has been stabilised by the normal process, as is done in all schools. But because this is a very small number of fire extinguishers, it's something we're looking at and I'll let you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u45	Mr Balommenakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister, for I see that the government is responding to this. Of course, in relation to the two thousand hundred people who were settled, the number of fifty-four - you say - is small. In fact, however, he is still critical in the sense and the sense of the injustice that has been created so many years ago, waiting from 2011 to possibly this sort of settlement. I think the important thing is that, on the government side, it is found that this regulation we are calling for is not prevented, that it does not run counter to any law and that it is within the economic potential of the current situation. We keep your promise that you will see the matter directly and positively.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u47	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u48	It is a matter for which I will inform Mr Balomenakis and the interested parties in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. We move to the sixteenth year under No 1159/27-2-2018 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems in the Operation of the Department of Border Guard (T.A.F.)" Pyonia’. Mr. Georgades has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as we know by Presidential Decree 7/2017, you proceeded with the redeployment and reorganisation of the Greek Police services. This reorder and reorganization provided for Kilkis to be merged, united in one of the two Border Guard Divisions, the one of Apipolis and the one of Polykastro, called the "Spain Border Guardation Department". And while until then they were operating in two separate buildings - one was based by the Evzoons Kilkis and the other by Idomeni - was scheduled to operate in the Train Station of Idomeni where the old police station of Idomemenos was housed, in a large building, with many places, but a renovation, a reconstruction - is the truth - to have the right workplaces for the police, and also the right storage areas. Because - I think it is well known to everyone - the part of Idiom and the Evzones is two parts which, unfortunately, have constantly detained foreigners, who are either trying to enter or leave the country. And it is a part where it is not short-term or opportunistic the move it has and the work and the high work it has done over the years. Unfortunately, until now a year later, this process of rebuilding the building has not progressed at all. The total cost, as set out by your services, was around EUR 220,000. The worrying thing, however, and at the same time the problem is that this process has not gone any further. At the same time, at the moment, the unified section is essentially sharing in two separate buildings which are at a distance of 4 km with each other, with administrative malfunctions, but also in poor conditions and with the detention of foreigners and work for the police workers. Please, Minister, I would like your reply and the Ministry's position to inform the Kilkis people and the police who are serving in this department of Border Guard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u51	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u52	Mr Georgiod, I wish all matters were resolved in an easy way. In fact, we are the ones who, in the context of the reorganisation, have designed to coexist with the two sections in one and to set up in the building of the old Rail Station of Idomen, which I know because I have served with my previous capacity in Polykastro as commander. But we've been hit by two problems. One is the problem of funding. The cost is, as you described, around EUR 251 000, as the technical services tell me, for which there is currently no funding. But the cost is not great. So I don't insist there. I wish the problem was that's all. Unfortunately, the main problem relates to the arbitrary constructions and the legalisation of this building, and that is where we are confronted. There is a demonic situation with regard to the property regime. Data have been requested from the Guenish Treasury, the Kilkis Building Agency, the Kilkis Town Planning, GAIAOSE, in order to find a end to this arbitrary building. Kilkis Police Department has requested assistance from the Regional Unit of Kilkis, the municipalities of Kilkis and the Chamber of Commerce. Therefore, there is a problem because of the arbitrary construction in the building and there it has been impacted. We will continue to fight it, and we will continue to look for a solution to this issue. But sometimes bureaucratic problems are more than your own will and ours to resolve a matter which could otherwise be resolved in an easy way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u53	Mr Georgioda, please have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u54	Minister, since your position I have kept the fact that the economy will be easily solved. I am pleased to hear that, and I am pleased to hear it. Indeed, at the initiative of the Police Director Kilkis and with the assistance of the Regional Unit Kilkis, but also with the voluntary provision of private engineers, the legalisation of the arbitrary structures of this building is at present proceeding. It is a task which is done by diligence and supervision of the police director and is approaching its final phase, as far as I am concerned, because I am following this. Because many words are unnecessary, what I would like today from you as a commitment is that by taking care of this with the help of all the actors in Kilkis, and I imagine also with the assistance of your service if necessary in procedural matters - because most of them have been made in the area of legalisation - we will have the approval of financing for the reconstruction of the building immediately. In Idolome and the Evzones we owe it. We owe ourselves because we all know very well in 2015 with that great wave of refugees, the constant wave of immigrants present in the region, this burden falls on the police officers of the Audipolis Border Guard - Polykastro formerly, Paionia now. They've met their duties. But it is very difficult under these objective conditions, under these building conditions, to continue to do their duty. However, the country's image at the most central land entrance, which is the Evia Customs office, cannot be so bad. I think, therefore, that everyone would be helpful and I keep your commitment that the economy will be solved once the others are settled. So I want to believe that with your own assistance, we will move on very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u56	It is true, Mr Georgioda, that the economic situation will be solved as soon as we can and can, once we solve the other, bureaucratic problems relating to arbitrary and property. The common will exists on these issues. Yes, we owe this region which has suffered for a long time. And I owe it to myself because I have served in this area. We will therefore continue to fight it in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the next topical and urgent question. It is the eighteenth under number 1311/13-2018 topical question of second-cycle Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject of “Extended Crime in Athens”. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in recent years, Athens has again been in an uproar of crime at all levels. We have repeatedly tabled questions concerning the incredible situation in the capital of the country and, Minister, it is good that you are here today to give us answers. As a member of the First of Athens, I am in contact with citizens, with traders, with workers, and I am being conveyed not only the sense of insecurity but, I would say, despair, because the state does not take the necessary measures to ensure the peaceful living and fairness of every rule of law. Mr Minister, unfortunately, violence in the centre but also in the neighbourhoods of Athens is escalating and in some cases takes uncontrolled proportions. Thefts, house and car burglars, injuries, arsons, drugs, prostitution, accounts cleansing and much more is on the agenda and, unfortunately, the city seems to be undisturbed. Also green areas have been converted into public camps, in areas of infraction. The area of Mars has been abandoned in lawlessness, despite the fact that it is the only lung of green, despite the fact that the sports facilities of Panhellenic are there, where children are being sported, and despite the fact that there are nearby hotels and that tourists could benefit from the field of Mars. The surroundings of the most important Museum of the country, the National Archaeological Museum, and the adjacent streets are almost daily battlefields. The inhabitants are suffering, they cannot have normal everyday life, and this historic point of the city of Athens is the focus of violence carried out by groups of offenders. As if that were not enough, for many months now, we have experienced the phenomenon of attacks on public services, on foreign embassies, organised violence, car fires and long-term incidents without a state response. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, you cannot believe that violence, which is gradually escalating, is a normal situation in a democratic society. This escalating violence cultivates fear and insecurity among the inhabitants and visitors of the capital. It's a town that looks unguarded, where everyone can do whatever they want undisturbed. This is the image of Athens. That is why, Minister, I ask you: why have you inactivated the Security Body? Why don't you react to limit the lawlessness that spreads downtown? Why do you facilitate the violence of marginal groups, despite the fact that you see what happens? Do you have a plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kefaliannis, only you didn't tell us we were in danger as soon as we got out of the hall. The image you described has nothing to do with reality. I, as the Minister responsible and a member of this government, have to speak with statistics, with figures. From that point on, if some people want to talk in terms of certain SMEs, I cannot enter into a debate unless the debate is conducted with specific elements. In front of me, unless you don't trust her, which, for 2013, talks about three thousand robberies in Attica in shops and homes, for 2014 for three thousand two hundred and five robberies and thefts in shops and houses, and then we see a downward course that, as far as the specific two months are concerned, we see a significant decline between 2018 and 2017, which even reach 30%. So we see a continuous downward trend from 2015 to the day we speak. From there on, of course, one can focus on specific incidents to create impressions, but I will continue to insist and speak with numbers. For the first time, we are reducing the police officers - and let us not like this - from the guarding of persons and spaces, where they are not strictly necessary, in order to strengthen the security of citizens in the stadium and especially in the centre of Athens, and this is what the whole world sees. There are now extensive businesses and businesses in difficult situations, in the Mars Field, where there are sick people, there are drug addicts and you know how difficult it is to quantify charges for people who have a gram of cannabis on them. In difficult situations, then, we are doing everything we can, with much of the police on the islands because of immigration. We are making moves, however, which you have never dared. And you never dared, because your main concern was to serve certain people and interests, which is not our concern. We are concerned with the security of the public as a priority and then the security of other people. These steps are taking us. Despite efforts, I say, some media to distort reality, people know, the public knows and sees it every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u61	Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u62	Minister, we are not going to stop exercising parliamentary control over the decomposition of the Athens centre. The evidence you mentioned doesn't convince us, because the reality is what disguises you. It also does not convince us that your attempt to degrade the fact when you tell us that the situation in the previous government was the same and invariable, because you know it was not. The steps taken between 2012 and 2014 on security were huge, with significant successes at all levels of dealing with crime and violence and, of course, with the moral and political condemnation of these phenomena. The New Democracy condemned and condemned violence in any form. In the case of the current government, however, we have systematically and consciously an attempt to evade these phenomena, as if they were part of a normality that you want to impose. The government cares about law-abiding citizens to support - why is that? - all groups of violence that multiply in Athens, all those who systematically undermine the everyday life of the Athenians, contributing to the cultivation of the climate of insecurity, abandonment and fear. Potentially, the situation of controlled political violence serves the purposes of your Government. But under no circumstances does it serve democracy. We therefore call on you, Minister, to assume your responsibilities towards the city of Athens, towards its citizens, to offer good services, because indifference against violent everyday life is challenging. What are you waiting for, Minister? The streets of the center of Athens again give birth to insecurity and fear and I don't think you either think that should be Athens. We cannot hand over the capital of the country to infraction, because as the capital of Athens it is a point of reference for the international community in the country. You, with your tolerance, let her desolate and now tell us here that everything is going well and that is what concerns us most. We therefore call on you to assume your responsibilities, to allow the Security Body to do their job, to limit crime in the city, and at last to enable the citizens of Athens to live civilisedly, as they deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u64	Mrs. Kefaliannis, here we are not dealing with the descriptions of philosophical styles and political controversies to create impressions. Here we are dealing with a reality. And the reality, unfortunately, disguises you. Remember, if the New Democracy governments ever arrested terrorists. Never! Think and remember what we've done these years. At the same time as we were talking yesterday, we arrested the biggest mobster in Thessaloniki, in cooperation with police forces from another country. Right now that we're talking, the police are announcing the arrest of a large circuit that was stealing cars. Every day there are huge successes which serve the safety of citizens. You know what? To jeopardize a government is a small evil. Risking the escalation of huge tourist waves is a great deal of evil. Please, look at things the way they are. Speak with numbers, as I speak with numbers and from there on, we can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. The second question under number 1506/16-4-2018, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, New Democracy, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Destructive consequences of illegal immigration to the port of Patras”, will not be discussed due to lack of competence, because the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 6 February 2018, Thursday 8 February 2018, Friday 9 February 2018, Monday 12 February 2018, Thursday 15 February 2018, Friday 16 February 2018, Thursday 22 February 2018 and Friday 23 February 2018 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u66	The minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 6 February 2018, Thursday 8 February 2018, Friday 9 February 2018, Monday 12 February 2018, Thursday 15 February 2018, Friday 16 February 2018, Thursday 22 February 2018 and Friday 23 February 2018 were validated. Pending the Minister of the Interior, who is on the road because of a traffic problem, we will obviously have an interruption for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The fourth question under number 1512-17-2018 of the Greek Communist Party MP for the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Ioannis Delis, will be discussed at the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Security of the right to work for the workers with a "block" at the Water and Landscaping Company of Thessaloniki (EEATH S.A.).) SERVICES S.A.’ The question will be answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Skourlet. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much. Minister, we are currently bringing to Parliament the issue of the eighty-seven dismissals of the Thessaloniki Sewage Company, who have been struggling every day for several days for their right to work. These workers, who were hired under the disgraceful status of the service card, the so-called 'block', were fired in cold blood some time ago by the current administration of the NSAF, which was, of course, appointed by the SYRIZA Government. These redundancies in the OLAF, which are not an isolated phenomenon, since they occur throughout the entire state sector, in our opinion, once again confirm the painful consequences for the workers of privatisation, which are generalised in the public sector, through the process of the so-called surplus fund. The course of privatization of the IACC is typical. Since 2001, it has been converted into a limited company and is listed on the stock exchange. As a public limited company now, in 2007, in order to reduce its labour costs, in order to increase of course the profits of its shareholders, it establishes its subsidiary "NATIONAL SERVICES S.A.", in which it assigns a number of technical responsibilities, from technical services to the drafting and implementation of its investment programme, hydrometers, the distribution of accounts and several others. It is this subsidiary of the IACC that has since started hiring the cheapest blacklisted workers since then who have been constantly increasing, because there have been permanent retirement departures and, on the other hand, because the NACC network is constantly expanding. Of all these workers, who today are eighty-seven, as I said at the outset, you are about throwing them into unemployment. Are you going to do something about these workers who are absolutely necessary at the Thessaloniki Water and Wastewater Corporation? Do you intend to proceed with their recruitment with full rights? Finally, do you intend to abolish this disgusting employment relationship with the block and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, first of all, I would like to say that there have been no redundancies in the public and public sectors in recent years. Not even one job on the SYRIZA Government - ANEL has not been lost. On the contrary, others have been created. So we are talking about cases of contracts which have expired or, like those which you are referring to, workers in the IAEA, with an indiscriminate status in the air, with the responsibility of the previous administrations and governments, which we have inherited. And in an effort to put order on this crucial issue of employment relationships, as you may know, but you did not mention it, today's administration has made three tenders through ASP and has already hired thirty-seven young workers, with permanent, stable employment relationships, which are the subject of today's public service, the wider public sector and the CEC. This is the basic orientation of today's government and you have seen it elsewhere and you see it in cleanliness. And I am opening a parable to say that I have never seen a representative of a communist party - not you, but in general - opposing the prospect of promoting permanent jobs, as you do in the area of cleanliness. And when ten years later, there is the greatest competition, undeclared and open, for permanent jobs, which shield local government, you come and undermine it, creating false expectations for workers, while you know that it is not redundancies, but contractors. In particular, the latter knew that their contracts would expire in December last year. They, however, were extended until 31 March, due to the critical area of cleanliness, where they were working and we proceeded to an open competition. Instead of welcoming this, instead of welcoming the fact that there is a gradual resurgence of employment relationships in the public sector - something that is crucial, that is to say, to limit the ruthless forms of work, because we are not only protecting workers in the public sector and in the EKO, but we are also sending a message to the new period that opens up before us and to the private sector - you are coming for others too. I don't understand that left populism. And that is why I am very strict because yesterday's statements are recent. Yesterday, Mr Karathanasopoulos welcomed the extraordinary CEDEFOP conference and HNPE was won against this competition. In particular, therefore, we inherited the flawless status of these workers. Their contracts, anyway, ended in December last year. They were extended until 30-6-2017. There was a competition for permanent recruitment, appealed to the Court of First Instance, lost the decision. Everyone knows that there can be no permanent recruitment of people or, in any case, a relationship with the company cannot be recognised if they have not been passed through the ADP. Because they had not crossed the APA not on their own responsibility, but on the grounds of customer relations, because the previous ones made their secrets. But what can we do? Should there not be a rationale, a resolution in this area? I do not think, therefore, that you are defending permanent jobs if you want to cover everything. You can't cover everything. You have to make politics with principles, with stability. Here too, you must recognise beyond your rest of the criticism that steps are being taken in this direction. Nevertheless, with those workers who are protesting - because I accept that it is not their responsibility to hold a hostage in their need to find a job, others are responsible, they are not from the position of the strong - there is dialogue, they are meeting with them. But when we make a political criticism and when the debate is being held in Parliament on more general political issues, you must be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much. Here, Mr Delis, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u72	Minister, half - perhaps more - of your protagonists dedicated it to defending the tender for cleanliness. To say a few things, although I don't have too much time. First of all, this competition does not cover to a large extent the needs that exist today in all municipalities, especially in large cities. The second element of this tender is that you are linking the payroll of the recruited workers to the remuneration fees, i.e. not even EUR 1 from the State budget. And the third element is that you respond to these contractors, who had no choice at the bottom - but through eight months of contracts, which were extended and when they were not, they worked for a few months. And through the competition, I think that even 15% of these people will not find a permanent and stable job. We will, however, have another chance to talk about this issue and about the municipalities and cleanliness. You said, in relation to the issue that was today the occasion for our question, that you inherited, in any case, a regime in relation to these workers who were unspecified and who are trying to find a solution. We directly asked what you intend to do with them and we did not get a reply unless you have something to say in your dentistry. We remind you here, by linking it to what I said earlier and to the course of privatization of the ETH, that we recently had the great water interruption in Thessaloniki, that we had a case of initial contamination in the large tank in Sindo, and the third case is the losses of these blocked workers. We believe that the signs are clear as to where privatisation leads. We believe that with an act of Ministerial Council you can regulate the employment status of these eighty-seven, ninety-seven workers - I think that they are eighty-seven workers - and continue to work in the company, in which they are, of course, absolutely necessary. We are impressed by the fact that you - not you - the Ministry itself, namely the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace calls them in its official document, in response to our written question, free professionals, who, in other words, legalize the employment relationship with the block. Let us say here and in reply, if you wish, to your argument for the thirty-seven, who are now engaged in the competition, that even these thirty-seven staff are far short of the necessary number, based on the company's organizational plan, which reaches about six hundred. And these hundred thirty-seven, that is, these ninety to work, other workers will be needed, given that the company is expanding. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute. I think you have been rewarding, Minister, for the entire time, all over the past few months, in relation to contractors and extensions and, once you find the opportunity, as now, you are invoking the judgments of the courts and dismissing them. They are fired, Minister. They're fired whether their contract is over or anything else. So you're making redundancies too. Only you should know that the courts decide on the basis of the legislative framework that your own government is preparing or maintaining. It is the legislative framework of the previous governments, which you are maintaining and strengthening.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u73	Please, Mr. Delis, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u74	We would therefore recommend that you do not hide behind the judicial decisions, which are not final, and that you do not look for an alibi, because you know you remember the patron sanctuary who seeks the court's custody because he is an orphan. You say - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - that you are paying the sins of the previous governments. We would like to ask you frankly, Minister, how long will you have any responsibilities? Five o'clock? Ten? Are you now in the fourth year of governance and all this anti-legislative framework, which undermines permanent and stable work, lives and reigns - or is it not? - and with your own government. And not only that, but you are strengthening it and of course you are also blocking the strike, you are dismantling the collective agreements and so on. This is nothing but the contribution of your Government to the so-called 'capitalist growth', which means the growth of profits and nothing else. To conclude, I say this: do not make redundant workers and all the workers back and claim their right to work, multiply and intensify their struggles against this policy that you are also serving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u75	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to say - and that was the reason for my delay - that I come from a meeting with representatives of the WTO - OTA to sign a sectoral collective labour agreement for workers in self-government with private-law relations. This is in relation to your question about what this government is doing in the field of collective agreements. A similar contract has already been signed a few months ago, a contract which had ten years to be signed in this area. But today's JRC ignores them. He's making Pontius Pilate. It doesn't matter. Everything will be solved by magic in a far-reaching future. How long will this endless future, when the workers will suddenly solve their problems? You underestimate the day-to-day games. You underestimate the connections that are created in society. You underestimate small and large changes, because you are committed to an obsolete, outdated strategy that marginalizes the Left. That's your greatest responsibility. Grab the thread of at least the processes of the JRC in previous years, which, although it did not lose its strategic goal, could and did alliances, could and would be militant at the specific battles for changes that would improve everyday life. I'm not asking for much. I invoke the memory of the old left-wing communists. It was a practice that eventually led to the dominance of the left, although it did not always have the required percentages. In any case, however, we are not taking a strategic lesson today. Today we are talking about this particular issue. I repeat, therefore, that these workers were not even contracted. It was, as you said, with a block - we did not - and with unspecified criteria for their relationship, as to how it was done and how they were chosen. These laws today lay down certain conditions and I repeat that I think we need to draw up a red line from here and now towards ensuring permanent, stable jobs, but on criteria, not on the basis of a 'logue', not on the basis of an adequacy. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u77	For everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u78	For everyone! And in that sense it is worth the big contest in cleanliness. That's what you can't understand, and you're asking us what? Should we have a closed photo contest, as New Democracy is supposed to blame us? What do you have to say to the hundred and thirty thousand candidates for this competition? Was she a sucker who came and applied? Were the suckers the people who wanted a job on the waste? Need for work. Can you solve them as magically all the problem? No, of course not. I don't even know about socialism that you dream of if you can solve employment globally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u79	Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u80	I have such concerns sometimes! From there on, now on, what are we doing in the given context? So, please welcome - and I give you, if I may, this advice - these small steps that are taking in this course of country's rescheduling. You said about privatization of I.D.H.I.E.L.D. I want to tell you this. First of all, it is a given that the 'fifty plus one' will remain in the public service. This issue has been closed once and for all. In fact, yesterday, I was able, by presenting some of the provisions of the new bill on reform of self-government, 'KLITHENH', to refer to the new possibility that we give the municipalities - which we did not have on the basis of the current institutional framework - to participate in the share capital of public limited companies in the field of public utility, allowing the eight, if I am not mistaken, metropolitan municipalities in Thessaloniki to participate in that part intended for further privatization, in the capital of IATTH. It is an alternative, convincing proposal against the prospect of privatising an additional part of the company. I think that perspective can't be lost. We are also able in these difficult circumstances to formulate alternative proposals which have a different sign. Once again, although there are legal obstacles with these eighty-seven workers, there is a meeting with their legal adviser to seek a legal solution, if possible, to their employment issues. However, the most important of all is what we are doing, how we have been building stable employment relations in the public sector from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. We move on to the debate of the third under number 1505/16-4-2018 on a topical question by Arcadias of the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Information on the “integrated planning for the promotion, development and exploitation of Lake Ladona” in the Peloponnese Region”. Please, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. Minister, you were accusing the KIC for left populism and I just want to remind you that the bill for the sale of PPC's units came, and I mention it because you were the minister responsible. To us, in Megalopolis, there's a gathering for this. But that's not what we're talking about, and I'm going straight...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u83	Who's talking, anyway!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u84	I told you that it is true that you remind me of the banner in Mr Tsipras' speech: "You are selling water, you are selling PPC, you will also sell Komotini". Do you remember that banner? In any case, we also have your own statements, when you were a Minister you assured - and to your honour at that time - with the President of the General Assembly - PPC, who spoke very well about you, that PPC will never be sold. There are statements by you in the House in plenary. However, there is an important issue in Arcadia in relation to the Ladonna Lake, which we have discussed before and, unfortunately, we cannot get an answer. Lada Lake is one of the areas that can be developed. In 2014, there was a study by the Municipality of Gortynia, which involved the project to attract visitors to the lake of Ladona, amounting to 1,289,000 euros. Unfortunately, so far there has been no development. The regional director and the regional authority shall not be informed. We, as parliamentarians, can only ask Parliament through the House and the relevant Minister for the Interior. In his last reply, when Mr Stathakis said that the money was lost, because the region did not quickly proceed with the tender for a section dealing with a particular road in this region. But the region has said that there is a specific project. I would like you, Minister, to tell me whether your region has actually informed you and there is a specific plan and whether this money will be used for the benefit of this region.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u85	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. Mr. Constantinople, I will make a little comment on PPC. I said it before. Who's talking, who's fighting for the PPC case? The ones who had passed the law on "little" PPC, so that 40% would be sold - and hydroelectric and clientele and lignite plants? Those who wanted to privatize 100% of IPTO? And, indeed, the New Democracy - I do not know if your party says so - is even asking for it now. Now that we have succeeded and acted in guaranteeing the public character of the country's high-energy networks, it is coming back and it says that everything is being privatised. He doesn't understand anything anymore. He's got a obsession destructive. She was obsessed with the DESA, for the gas. Fortunately, this tender has been chartered and we are now going bound by their own signatures on privatisation, at a price much higher and having, above all, changed the shareholders' agreement which, listen to - listen, the ultra-patriots of the New Democracy gave the opportunity to the Azeros who had won the tender at the time to sell to anyone who wants the network, without asking the Greek state about it. And the relations between the Azerbaijans and Turkey are well known. These were the ultrapatriots who defend development. They even wanted the national gas network at these difficult times to sell it to anyone. Instead of telling us that you are confirmed by this battle - elsewhere they are victorious, something is improving - you are now coming to make comments on privatisation. In any case, I am saying this for the Minutes and for the record. But to come to the issues of your region, which I understand - logically - you have an increased interest, because it is a project that really has a developmental character, which will highlight the beauty of the region, give a boost to the tourist movement. It is very important that the Lada Lake region should also be raised, but that the road network should also be developed in the wider area. As you know, the study has been - you mentioned it too - and it has been approved by the Arcadia Architecture Council. Some opinions from the Department of Forestry as well as the Electoral of Antiquities of Modern Monuments are expected, while there has been some way of highlighting and exploiting the lake of Ladonas in a budget of €1.180,000, which is part of the Arcadia's "TATOK" programme. On the road network, the budget was EUR 500,000. PPC had committed itself - unfortunately, it has now withdrawn this commitment, due to the delays - for an amount of EUR 250,000. In the search by the region for how to cover PPC's VAT analogue, we finally had a reversal of the data. PPC, that is, does not currently have the intention to do so. I understand that there are delays, which may be the explanation of these new obstacles. The region is responsible for these delays. We'll tell the truth. We won't hide or make things look good. Of course, on 17 April - the region has informed us that any problem with the financing of the project will be covered by the region's Public Investment Programme. She realizes, too, that the work must be done and that it is of great importance. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Ministry of Interior for 2017 had given the amount of about EUR 3 million for the road network and a corresponding amount is provided by the CFP to the region and for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. Again, Mr Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u88	Minister, on the rest of the issues we talked about, we have the bill to discuss them. I would like to insist on this work, which is very important. It is important that you say that the delay - for four years now - has been a delay in the region. It is the first time that a region has 1.5 million and cannot exploit it. It is important that Mr Stathakis clearly said last time - of course, PPC could not withdraw the funding, but I understand the difficulties and problems it has had - that the money was lost to build part of the project, because the region has, on the basis of what the Ministry said, delayed the entire process. Minister, it is a unique phenomenon in the country to have the money and not to be exploited. I don't know how you can intervene. But you must intervene. I don't have the power. We are MPs and we can only ask you. This is the way in which the institutional framework is used and we fully respect it. You know, in a month, we'll be here again on this subject. However, I would ask you to send a message in your speech today that the region is not just enough to proceed with this process, but that it should also be checked in a way. I understand she has her autonomy. However, I have to do with this money that is at the TATOK - which I do not know if it works and I hope it does not become a political support fund for the choices made by the regional manager and his family - in fact the next period immediately and quickly to implement this project. Consider, as far as I understand it, that there is no notice of the study, that is, a notice to take over these works. So you understand that to do something in the Peloponnese Region, with the money data, it takes four years. I have nothing more to say, just something last and important. We may disagree, but Mr. Skourletis, in relation to other ministers, comes to Parliament and answers questions. We have to talk positively about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u89	Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u90	Mr Constantinople, I think it is absolutely right that you said that on the basis of the consolidated constitutional autonomy of the First and Second degrees, there are some responsibilities that the respective levels of self-government should assume. I would very clearly like to send this message that you are saying, that there is a matter of responsibility for priorities, steps, planning, planning on the part of the region for this project. I hope that what he informed us on 17 April is not just a wish, not an answer to overcome the delays, but a commitment from the Peloponnese Region to proceed with the project. It is indeed regrettable in these circumstances that, when money is secured for some projects, we should let them glean, not take advantage of them. We are trying because sometimes there are responsibilities, if you like, and the government in this respect: when it has not made the necessary changes that will remove bureaucratic obstacles, help to run the procedures. We're working on it. A lot has to be done, because there has been a cynical barrier, bureaucratic obstacles, polynomialism, which has been shaped for many years now, for many decades. But in this case, I really think there is a clear responsibility on the part of the region, which must finally speed up the implementation of this critical and important work for the Arcadia Prefecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u91	We move on to the debate of the sixth under number 1501/16-4-2018 by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Scandaceous legislative favor for the incompatibility of the parties! Rusfetti for Mitsotakis and Genuines who voted for the amendment together with the government....." The immovables?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u92	'... and other relatives'. Have you heard that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u93	The impersonals seem a little weird to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, Minister, a few 24 hours ago - as all the information says - is published the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's loan to the parties, you are here today, to answer the question put by the Christian Democratic Party. We are here with open ears, not only those who are in the Chamber, who are few, but many, who are currently watching parliamentary control, to hear whether it was really fair what happened. So what? To be inconsistent with 50% of state funding for the loans of the old parties. If that is the case, I say it is fair and that is why we are here to hear whether it is also right to do the same for bio-producers, for those who are part of the market, for professional borrowers, who have even given personal guarantees for their own loans or for their own obligations towards the public, where, as you know, there is no such misappropriation of 50% of any income, from where it comes - in this case, of the parties - we are talking about the state grant. We are still here, Minister, to hear from you how you have managed and 'frozen' Mitsotakis, who is not 'frozen', nor in national matters, to join the Government, here to close the eyes of the burner, to tighten his heart and to vote for an amendment of the Government. Bravo! It means either man now shows understanding or something else happens. But we are also here to tell us if what you did was symbolic, as it was written, a gift for your upcoming "incense" with Mrs. Gennamas' party, if it was the ring of "Arbena". Why? Because it was written that we have a party that operates with three VDUs. Yesterday, on Sunday, at the 'DOCUMENTO', there was a report saying that a cleaner of the PASOK offices who are not paid, went to the courts, made decisions and said to her, Mr President, 'Who are you'? Here we now have a "PASOK VET", a "VET Democratic Cooperation", a "VET Change Movement".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u95	Democratic Reconciliation? It's four!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u96	So, then, we are here to listen, to learn, to learn, to learn, to learn, to learn, to learn, to know how the Greeks and the government understand it. The financial prosecutors are listening, because the day before yesterday Stournaras sent them the same from the Bank of Greece to testify. Minister, these were also made known in the Committee of Inquiry into the parties' loans, their statement came. You won't believe it, Minister. Is it self-sufficient? Well, boy, I think you can say - not you, friend could say - "our Father," a mistake you can make. These representatives, Mr President, sent by Mr Stournaras, submitted for the parties' loans to the party. There are in the Minutes. And a statement that only you need to read it takes three quarters, they did the same time - two together - in ten minutes. And there's no question. No, it says Dragon and the others. So they listen to us today. Would you like to cover up these? Because if we take various initiatives, why should they be tortured and made bad and threaten them and call them gangbangers, Toulupaki, others? If they see here, there's another way they won't pay. So we wait with interest. To tell you the truth, and I, in agreement with my colleague just before, did not expect you to come forward with a reply, because I think that here really needs a political attitude to show whether or not you want to get the same attitudes, now gaining the know-how. How did my colleague say so? STECF. Tatilis will tell me what that TATTOP is that I heard. Perhaps my colleague said it because we read it again yesterday - and the question was asked - that 'COLOMY S.A.' - Do you remember that? - he gave the election, he says, 6.200,000-- you hear? - in the media to tell the world what the law obliges them: to go, he says, to write. In the elections. And who took it? A company that Mr. Mitsotakis has today and they drink coffee, coffee. This is probably the STECF, the 6,200,000 that my colleague said. And he tells you now, that's how the know-how will do it in Arcadia. Do you now also acquire know-how of old parties, which is why you brought this arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Nicolopoulou, you made me feel like telling you the truth. I heard about engagements, about "I believe" you said. However, because we have not the same age, but we're a little older if you didn't learn "I believe" in school, you didn't make it, you didn't get a grade. So that's where we're going. As far as the engagements are concerned, you know because we are a little open to social issues, we do coexist with coexistence and we do not always exchange rings. I'm more traditional to them. I'm wearing it. From there and then I understand your question as a possibility to dissolve a misunderstanding, a mistaken impression that may exist in the world. I understand that there is a great deal of sensitivity to the issues of the funding of the parties, much greater to the present conditions of hardship, poverty and poverty, of real poverty for a large part of our world. Of course, this situation should not lead us to views that say that we should abolish the funding of the parties in democracy. Because the abolition of funding means financing from strong economic centres. It means that the parties will become annexes to the oligarchs, major businessmen and groups. I don't suppose you obviously have such a perception. But I would like to clarify something, because sincerely all of these considerations are not in the realm of regulation. The labels you made, the description you made, could be about other times. But over here what we did with this interpretative provision was not to increase the improperness to 50% - it doesn't say that - but the unexpected one. The other is the unaccompanied, the other is the irresponsible. Let me clarify this a little bit more. The inconvenience is that the legislature considers that it should not be taken by the banks, but that it should be kept by the parties not to satisfy other needs, but to pay for the contributions of their employees, the rents of the poor owner who has rented the offices in the party. It was decided that a 10% should not be. But the irrevocable 50% is something different, and it is this amount that cannot be allocated, to put the party on a mortgage to the banks to be licensed from future funding over the next few years. And he says that you can't do more than 50% of it. Up to 50% you can empower. So it's two different things. And this was foreseen by the law from previous years. So it's not a new legacy. It's the law of 2002. So it is a purely interpretative provision, which has nothing to do with either the forthcoming adjutant, the conclusion of the prosecutors for the parties, or with all that you have said about double, triple and quadruple VAT. So away from us, these perceptions, these practices. These are two different things. The unaccompanied, beware, is respected up to 50% in those cases where the loans are served. When these loans cease to be served, they become red, they fall down on contracts, then the issue of default, 10%, so the remaining 90% can be seized. That's the way it is. It has nothing to do with all the rest of the information you have referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u99	Again, Mr Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u100	Minister, I am sure you will tell us in your dentistry what the need was, who came and said to you: 'We want you to do this, because we have this problem'. Why, look, 'up to 50%' means that it can also 10%, and it gets even worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u101	It's not irresponsible, it's irresponsible. Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u102	Yeah, unaccompanied. So what does it say 'unregulated'?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u103	That the amount can't be transferred...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u104	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u105	Towards the bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u106	Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u107	Watch out, give out to mortgage and get a loan against this funding. Because the funding is given in section rather than all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u108	That's right. So here we want to hear what the reason for this initiative was. They went to the banks and asked for new loans and they told them this? Because, as you know, Minister, they went to the banks the same day as the State grant guarantee. They told us in the committee of inquiry - listen to fraud! - the people who are here. And people say, "Here, you, you horn-eye-eye-eye-do-do-do-do-do-eye-eye-eye-eye-eye-do. That's why it's all this now. What do you say to us?’ Would anyone else do it? On the same day he went to the four systemic banks, the party's chief executive gave the letter and said that "for the loans I'm going to take, I give it to you for a guarantee". The same day all commanders had contacted each other and with the same guarantee, i.e. the assignment,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u109	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u110	Not today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u111	It used to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u112	But I referred to the Committee of Inquiry and the Committee of Inquiry, as you know, was examining those loans. So today what do we have? With this arrangement, there is concern that they will never pay, nor in 2500. Why? But you know why. I say this perhaps to give the floor again, because you understood it correctly. I wanted to give an opportunity to put the government in place and to hear what its deepest thoughts are until it does. If you want to make a coexistence agreement with Photini, with Mrs Fofo, live well and with our wishes!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u113	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulos, do not express yourself like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u114	Mrs. Fofi, I said. Why? It's bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u115	It's Mrs. Gennamas and Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u116	Aren't you Physicians telling her? Alexi, isn't it? Is baptism bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u117	Please, we're in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u118	So with Mrs. Gennamas. Good for you! I imagine Mr Katsikis will not be saddened by such enlargement. Mr President, you too will have a better future. Because it turns out - you saw yesterday's polls, I imagine - there's a big cry. There to see what happened. So elsewhere is the prospect. But the reds speak, and elsewhere the chickens give birth, he says. That's what polls showed yesterday. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Minister, is this theme on which the world is going to pay? Because you said well, not 'pimps', donors to the parties, and of course I would not accept it. Constantine Karamanlis was the first to bring the funding of the parties from the state grant, precisely so that they are not the parties captive. And you're absolutely right and we agree on that. I imagine, however, that you, too, agree that the citizens will not pay the funds of the parties, the gyms of Giorgakis Papandreou and all the others. Because that's how it works. And with the change of VAT you close your eyes and at the same time, we have as a state in these banks public representatives. How do we ensure the public's interests for these sea loans and other arrangements? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u120	Mr Nicolopoulou, I will not go into the fields of justice at all in a case that is already under way, as I think we should not do in other cases. Public dialogue is good, but it cannot under any circumstances replace the role of justice, because at the end of the day there is a risk that this process will be degenerated, in a political struggle that obscures the deepest causes of the problem, overshadows the process,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u121	Minister, you haven't heard of the Kaloude finding that in the end, with amendment, legislative...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u122	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u123	...for loans...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u124	Wait a minute. Let go of me!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u125	Why are you telling me 'but we won't do it'? Since it's happening now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u126	You guys talk about everything and you won't let me say a word more? You're talking about everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u127	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you had most of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u128	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u129	But Mr Nicolopoulos is always torrent and I would say enjoyable sometimes. From there on, I say we should always be careful. We must express our absolute commitment to revealing any scandal, but leaving a point and then, having done what is necessary at the political level, justice to deepen and to do its job. This applies to all cases, also to the case at hand. So I repeat that this provision is purely interpretative. It was requested by the services of the Ministry of Interior because it facilitates the distribution of funding. I can inform you that no side effect has been achieved by this provision, nor has it given any opportunity for further borrowing of the highly indebted parties in the New Democracy and PASOK, where they have to see how they, their grandchildren or their grandchildren, will pay back what they have taken as loans in the way they have taken them. This is another issue, you have raised it sufficiently, but we are not talking about this now. We must now respond, so that we do not leave the slightest shadow of hiding anything in this specific interpretative provision, which - I repeat - clarifies the existing regime. And I remind you of something else, which we have to say. Over 55% of state funding has been reduced in recent years, from 2010 to today. The parties have not been left in the unavoidable, barely, and you know that. And this, mutatis mutandis, has also happened to parliamentary compensation and to various other things. Do we want to go further? Let's see it for essential reasons. When society hurts, when everyone suffers the effects of a levelling-up political austerity, no one should be excluded and I would say that the political world should set an example first. But I think we're also in a phase of relocation now. In front of us, we have good things to see. The hardest thing we've left behind. In any case, in order to conclude, I think and would like to assure you that there was no purpose of any kind. There was no closure of an eye, no slight possibility of moving, practices to which you refer. That's about other times. Things are moving transparently and we really honor this money, which democracy must give, but it is the money of the Greek people and should in no way know where they are going and how they are distributed and spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u130	Are you going to make any decisions on the three VATs?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u131	Thank you. We move on to the debate of the first under No 1497/16-2018 in the first cycle of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Serious complaints of workers of the National Theatre". The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Connordou. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on January 25, 2018, the employees of the National Theatre in their letter to the Ministry of Culture and Sports make major complaints against the artistic director and the chairman of the board of directors of the theatre, concerning the working conditions and the implementation of the collective labour contract signed by our Government in July 2017. In particular, they refer to unpaid rehearsals, which have been baptized in seminars, the systematic avoidance - for almost three years - of drawing up and depositing internal working regulations, so that we have a delay that forced them to resort to the Labour Inspectorate. It should be noted that, following this complaint, a trialogue meeting was held in which the Secretary-General fully justified the workers for the non-drafting of rules of procedure and for the circumvention of the collective agreement. Finally, workers refer to the fine of EUR 100,000 imposed at the National Theatre for undeclared and uninsured work and for the recruitment of strikers during the day before work. So, on the basis of the above, what are the initiatives you intend to take to stop these sad phenomena, namely the violation of the collective labour contract, the recruitment of strikers, and the failure to draw up the rules of labour in the first state stage of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u133	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u134	Dear Mr. Darkness, I'm happy for the question. I am aware of your particular sensitivity to the theatre area, which I share, having served this area for years and indeed the area of the National Theatre. The collective agreement shall be concluded between the trade union and the employer and shall lay down the terms and conditions of employment and other relevant matters. Collective labour agreements are guaranteed by the Constitution and are complementary to the general terms of employment laid down by the relevant laws. In order to reach agreement between the parties on the signing of the collective labour agreement, the Ministry has made a decisive and mediated contribution to suspending the mobilisations and further actions to the Secretary-General on this matter. The Ministry's initiative is now. The Ministry, as it had provided for the signing of the collective agreement, will, in the same way, once again, intervene, in order to implement the collective agreement without any derogations. Currently, issues arising after the signing of the collective agreement have been resolved, as three days ago a memorandum was filed with the Ministry of Labour of the National Theatre and the National Lyceum on the issue of the unhealthy allowance, which was the main demand of the workers. The remarks made by the Association of Workers of the National Theatre were taken into account in the memorandum. On the question of operatives, which is an allowance for some years, the National Theatre has written the relevant expenditure into its budget. But this will be possible if an acceptable solution is found from the General Accounting Office of the State. We now come to the issues you have mentioned about the recruitment of strikers. According to the data I have requested from the National Theatre and presented to me, the subject you are referring to relates to a single case in which there was planned projection from the Workers' Association, as this was to be done at night, except for the working hours of the National Theatre workers. The workers refused to make the transfer, as they were entitled to, and that is why the National Theatre was directed to the Union of Loaders. Finally, the administration decided not to make this evening's transfer so that there would be no unpleasant incident, and the issue was resolved peacefully. Consequently, what is presented as an intake of strikers is inaccurate, as at the time the workers concerned were working there was no active strike. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I need a little more time, Mr President, because it is quite a bit of a matter. I would like to stress that the right to strike is a legitimate right of workers, constitutionally guaranteed. The Ministry is in favour of defending all workers' rights - and those laid down by the legislation and those reflected in the collective agreement. I now come to the question of the drafting of the Rules of Procedure. In the context of the renewal of the rules of operation of all the supervisory bodies of the Ministry and the drafting by the authority of regulations, where they do not exist, the competent bodies of the National Theatre had been asked to send a draft proposal for a renewed regulation to this effect by the Ministry's services. Under the new law, the administrative financial manager is the only person responsible for submitting the draft regulation to the Board of Directors for approval, and therefore such recruitment was a prerequisite for starting any review of the operating regulation. In March 2017, the tender procedure for the recruitment of an administrative director began. This competition has been fruitless. Finally, in October 2017, a new administrative financial director was hired, who activated the required procedures. In January 2018, the National Theatre Workers' Association began consultation and on 18-4-2018 his proposals were tabled. The issues are resolved through working groups set up by all sides and working with a rapid pace to draw up the draft regulation. We stress that what was submitted was a draft. It was not the final one, because it must be co-formulated after consulting the parties involved. One of the main issues raised by the club concerning organic positions has already been incorporated in the preliminary draft. In any case, the National Theatre has already established rules of procedure since 1997 in the form of a Presidential Decree. We should mention here that the new rules of procedure are being reformed and put on new bases a multi-year regime, chronic organisational problems are solved, and the theatre will proceed as a modern organisation and on the initiative of the Ministry, and at the same time it seeks to ensure that all actions of the supervised bodies are carried out in terms of legality and transparency. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I must insist. At the time of the memorials, the previous government of the New Democracy and PASOK destroyed the collective labour contracts in March 2013, resulting in the literally plundering of the free theatre and the taking of our state tents. This government within the narrowness of the memorials, within the obligations and under the vigilance of the institutions, had the courage and signed collective labour contracts for the theatres it defines, i.e. for the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece, collective labour contracts for both actors and technicians. We do not just hope for it, but we have been working with Mr Nefeloudis for the preparation of collective labour contracts and the free theatre since August 2018, where with the clear exit we will have our hands broken for more moves. The policy of this government on collective bargaining at the state theatres is a given one. But is there, or is there, a fine of EUR 100,000 for undeclared and uninsured work of a strike mechanism? There is. And as far as the rules of procedure are concerned, we are told that 1/7 of the Rules of Procedure have been given for now. In any case, the Director and the Board of Directors of a public body cannot ignore the contracts signed on the initiative and responsibility of the Government. They cannot hire strikers and we cannot tolerate non-training yet in the rules of procedure. They must apply the decisions of the Government. That's their job. If they want to make another policy, let me say, the policy of other parties that have previously made it, they cannot do it with that government. New Democracy and PASOK did that. Here we are as a party and as a political space towards choices of this kind. And I would ask you, in particular, to take action to ensure that collective agreements are applied, that legality be restored to the theatre, because that is our mark, that is our vision, that is what this government has done and that things cannot be blurred or done differently from those which have been professed and for which we are fighting every day as a government, as a party, as a political area, as a left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u137	Thank you. You have the floor again, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. For the first two topics, I have answered you, on the question of strikers and on the rules of procedure. So, for an economy of time, I can't come back. Regarding the issue you raised about the fine of EUR 100,000 for undeclared and uninsured work, I would like to say that it is well known that in the past it was a common practice for workers to be used for specific secondary, unpredictable, temporary, temporary work, impurities, excavations on off-site tours, etc., especially during the weekend and to be declared on staff tables on the next working day. The case complained of one case in Herodion in a post-night performance that had to be loaded during the night as it followed the following day. The statement in question was made on Monday. While discussions were taking place on this issue and there was assurance of the administration that the workers who work normally will be insured and that within the winter season the artistic directorate and the ERCC together would find the way to resolve the issue, there was a complaint during the summer season at a performance in Herodion, resulting in a fine of 80,000 for the non-compliance of the staff table and not for uninsured work. It is therefore about the issue of the communication, the announcement and not the insurance of workers. For the fine the National Theatre has appealed to the administrative courts for its annulment but the case has not yet been dealt with. This has been the practice of the last ten years, but there is now a concern that there should be active contracts in advance and that there should be permanent staff who are sufficient and qualified. With regard to the unpaid rehearsal you have mentioned, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Culture and its supervised bodies, such as the National, State, the Greek Scene and the Athens Festival, are perhaps one of the last places where labour contracts are truly respected and are carried out in favour of both the technical staff and the actor sector. The National Theatre therefore makes at least five months of contracts on the basis of the collective labour contract, the performances do not exceed two and a half months, so all rehearsals are normally paid on the first day. The State Theatre of Northern Greece does the same. The National parallel also has a huge variety of educational work aimed at children, older people, adolescents and has never raised any such issue, nor has it ever been a complaint from the Greek Actors Association. I know that for so many years, the theatre function is very important and in order to have high-quality performances and every employee, of all specialties, plays a very important role. That is why we must take care of all contracts of employment and defend their rights. We know that the practice of recent years has been broken in the free theatre, which is why we have set the free theatre grants for jobs and the insurance of workers. This is one of the criteria on which subsidies are given to the free theatre, precisely because we want to try to put a rule in this anarchist landscape, which has been left to its fate. I would also like to reassure that the Ministry of Culture with the National Theatre, the State and the other bodies with similar problems helps on a daily basis for all the difficulties that are presented for their proper operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too. We continue with the first with the number 1507/16-4-2018 topical question of second-cycle Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Dangerous the smooth functioning of archaeological sites". Please, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since 15 March 2018 we have tabled this timely question on the delay in the recruitment of seasonal staff of museums and archaeological sites. One month later, after the extended summer hours have officially begun, the issue seems to have been settled in at least some archaeological sites and museums with emblematic solutions. The main issue, however, remains. Why does the Ministry of Culture lose all deadlines? It is clear that it is not the services that used to operate smoothly and in good time. The slow-moving political leadership is responsible for it. Minister, the recruitment of seasonal staff must be planned in time, given the time-consuming procedures they require. Without this staff, the archaeological sites and museums are unable to function properly or is a sign of administrative cowardice this battle over the year for two consecutive years that we see from your Ministry due to the failure to prioritise the needs. We know that for the time being the needs of seasonal staff are covered marginally and only in some archaeological sites and museums with staff whose contracts end directly. Is it reasonable to assume that political leadership is working to meet the established needs with a different approach? To delay the repetition of the process you are obviously working on other scenarios and perhaps even changes in the candidates' formal qualifications, to facilitate your party clientele. You are not interested in the reduction caused by the delays in recruitment to the EDF, because if you had taken serious care of the management of museums and archaeological sites, then you would know that you are moving marginally and would avoid diligence. Despite the occasional announcements, the revenues from the visitability of museums and monuments have not increased. The increase you are celebrating is simply due to the doubled cost of the ticket and not to increased traffic and, in order to increase these revenues, programming is needed, deep sectors. You haven't succeeded in either. We have repeatedly placed ourselves on these issues through parliamentary control. Apart from the candles which we have had for two years, in addition to the regressions we have in the field of electronic ticket, we now have to worry about the timely recruitment of seasonal staff. Madam Minister, we're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u141	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kefaliannis, yesterday for the Southern Aegean Development Conference I was in Rhodes, and I visited Lindos. At 12 noon, eight and a half thousand visitors had already passed with a previous record of five thousand. This was confirmed by the workers there. This, in fact, is an impressive increase in visitors, which is a proof of the opposition from what you are doing. And that's what we expect in all of Greece. Let me refer to the online ticket. Already in Olympia, the first places are placed for the online ticket, which shows that there is no regression. This programme is progressing normally and will be implemented pilotally this summer and directly in the next large spaces with the know-how that has already been acquired. The increased needs of information personnel, archbishops and night watchmen are a major issue, which we all know is a major issue, and we all know how much this problem is intensified each time due to the gradual reduction of permanent prison personnel, mainly due to retirements, but also every autumn after seasonal staff leave. In the context of the difficult budgetary conditions that we all know and the country's monumental commitments, the Ministry is making every effort to ensure the proper operation and preservation of archaeological sites, monuments and museums within its competence. We act systematically, Mrs. Kefaliannis, to meet the needs of prison personnel. Recently, the recruitment process has been completed and they have served four hundred people of different specialties, daily guards, night watchmen, cleaning workers with five-month work and were distributed throughout the territory. It is also ongoing to recruit thousands of three hundred and fourteen people with employment for a fixed period of seven months, a thousand hundred and sixty three days of antiquities, ninety - nine - night guards, five accountants, forty - one assistant staff, six persons of assistant staff. So this makes us a total of over a thousand seven hundred for this summer, while last year we had a thousand three hundred people. These will ensure the smooth functioning of our archaeological sites and museums. Already in thirteen inquiries have posted the lists of successful ones who are invited to take up work. Other services are expected to complete a process immediately within the next few days. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Therefore, by the end of the month, staff needs will be almost fully met for the proper operation of museums and archaeological sites. Since your question also concerned the cost of recruitment, it amounts to nearly EUR 16 million, of which approximately three and a half million are contributions to insurance agencies. I think I can go on with my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u143	Yes, Minister. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u144	Madam Minister, we have listened carefully to what you have prepared to present. But you mentioned to us evidence without a reflection. We have constant concern that the preservation and operation of museums and archaeological sites is precarious. Even the EDF's revenues are not in a position to invest properly. Last year they reached 17 million, this year at 25 million. Any justification for the lack of credit for the recruitment of seasonal staff is therefore rejected. With effect from 1 April, the extended working hours shall apply. The tourist season has been officially opened and you still have not completed the recruitment procedures of seasonal staff in all the museums and archaeological sites of the country. If this situation adds the closed cans, the licensed sales to museums and archaeological sites, then what exactly is happening to your ministry? Every day that passes, the concept is consolidated to the people that ultimately this moral advantage of the Left in relation to culture is a myth. Not only are you not able to protect culture, but you are destroying all successful practices, without compromising the impact on society in the coming generations. We are a European country with an invaluable wealth. Museums, monuments. But the experience of our visitors is not the same. To improve our offer, it is not enough to repeat the procedures for recruitment and staffing in the archaeological sites and museums in time. A study should be carried out to improve the services provided, to compile new experiences for visitors, to upgrade these services as a whole, and a lot of issues should be addressed from the guards' uniforms to the design of attractive sellers. The management of the cultural reserve requires specialised knowledge, vision, design and early implementation. Only under these circumstances will the monuments and museums of the country be able to offer experience to visitors, which will be commensurate with their reputation and historical value. Obviously this simple finding has not been recorded in the planning of the Ministry's leadership over the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The departments, Mrs. Minister, of the Ministry are very well aware of what they should do with appropriate planning on the part of the political leadership. We know they can work properly. The evidence is that in 2015 the same phenomena were not observed, because in fact everything was ready before the January 2015 elections. And I close, Minister, with an observation that for a long time there has been a systematic effort - not by you - to shrink the Ministry. We see that responsibilities of vital importance are removed, for example cinema, and this, together with the lack of planning and inappropriateness of the Ministry, creates an explosive design, a design that seriously harms the interests of the Greek culture and depreciates a very important Ministry. Minister, act before it's too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u145	Mrs. Conniordos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u146	Unfortunately, Mrs Kefalayannis, you raise so many issues that we would need a whole day to answer you. Of course, all this is being put to the fore to create impressions. I would like to stress, however, that, in fact, I am impressed by your obsession with some of the issues, because in the past there has been a huge dismantling of resources in the EDF. There was also inefficiency known to everyone. There were machinery in the archaeological sites, which did not work, for which too much money was spent. There were expropriations that waited for decades, because some people went in front of them. We had the very poor sales of misery which is not a current phenomenon. Now there is a great effort to get a new seller into new, modern methods, enrich the sellers with objects not only with important copies but also with modern objects. There is a great effort to reform and we will soon see its results. I would now like to refer to what was your main question. The Ministry of Culture, unlike previous governments, is trying to cure this permanent problem of security. That is why the new organisation has increased the number of organic posts, especially prisoners, which will enable the country's finances, whenever they allow it, to be recruited permanent staff or to have vacant posts for the implementation of the mobility of officials. Furthermore, it is important that a request has been sent to the AACC for the issue of a proclamation for the filling of two hundred positions, i.e. a hundred and seven permanent organic posts for the storage of day-to-day guard information and fifty and three permanent organic seating positions of the bay-keeping industry for the entire archaeological sites and museums of the country. It has already been approved, first of all, by the AACC and, at the same time, the relevant credit certificate from the Ministry of Finance is expected to be issued in order to make the notice. By October, therefore, this recruitment of permanent officials will be completed. Also, as you can see, we do not act timely but systematicly to solve years of problems. In addition, the Ministry will acquire additional staff of various specialities by completing the procedure for waiving the State's dismissal of the media pursuant to Article 47 of Law 4440/2016. This complex administrative and legal procedure is at a final stage. This will enable staff to be recruited with an indefinite amount of time, which will be about three hundred people of all specialties. It is surprising, Mrs Kefaliannis, that you are constantly coming back to an issue, which is well known in the Greek that since your policies have led us to the memorials, it is not simple to resolve, because of the known restrictions imposed and even when there are sensitive areas such as health, for example, when in better economic conditions and as a government you have not been able to resolve them permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u147	We thank the Minister, who completed the last question of parliamentary scrutiny for the day. There is still another timely question, which will be discussed after a few minutes' interruption, because there will be a slight delay by the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Mr Vassiliou, as we have been informed. With the reopening of the procedure, that is, after the debate on the topical and urgent question, we will continue with the legislative process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is continuing. We are entering the last for today's topical question. It is the fifth under No. 1514-17-2018 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the serious problems of the National Komiberium of Heraklion (ESAKI). The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. George Vasiliadis. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a common assumption that the National Swimming House in Heraklion, LINTO, the only public swimming pool, is in a very tragic situation, despite the superhuman efforts made every day by the few employees - it is nineteen if I am not mistaken, while doubles - coaches, parents are needed, so that it works in an unreasonable way. Of course it's the National Stadium. That's another conversation. We'll come back sometime and talk about it separately. For the swimming pool, we have to tell you he has old and unconscious facilities. They pose a serious risk to the health and physical integrity of the hundreds of young children who are engaged daily in the facilities. The rooms are inadequate, the rooms are dirty, the showers are damaged and all kinds of sanitary are worn down. There are many problems in heating the pool and incomplete lighting. The facilities only have a small-capacity latitude with a rustle frame. The surrounding area is shaped with inappropriate old materials, closed with sheetings, at risk of injury to athletes, escorts, swimming workers. All these problems make it impossible to hold all the Greek championships in Heraklion, even fights at pre-agonist level. In other words, they gather in a pool hundreds of classical swimming athletes, polo teams, synchronized swimming, and at the same time they are doing swimming lessons in the small swimming pool next to the big one. Would it be exaggerated to say that a national sporting area, such as EASA, should it have an organised gym, medical care, doctor, nurse, physiotherapist? It has nothing of this! If we wanted to talk about the full satisfaction of Heraklion's needs in wet sport, the country's fourth population city, then there is a clear need to build a new modern swimming pool with the sole responsibility of the state in finding space, study, construction and operation. In any case, do you not see it as Minister of Sports? Haven't you been informed by the administration of this tragic situation? I don't think - a rhetoric is the question - you reasonably know that. We simply believe that this situation is not merely the result of a lack of information, of knowledge of problems or of indifference even by the government. In our opinion, this is a planned option for both the previous and current governments, which sees the right to sport as a cost from which the state must get rid of and reduces the benefits in the field of sport, which is why funding in the ECA is being drastically curtailed, and not only with a view to establishing remuneration - that is our view and so things are evolving - and, of course, to open up the way for investors and for sport in this case. We ask you - and I thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance - what measures will the government take to ensure the immediate, safe maintenance and operation of the facilities of the National Swimming Swimming Centre, and in particular of the rooms, the laundry and other public spaces, as well as the heating of the swimming pools? Secondly, in order to increase the regular budget grant to ESDC for real and not marginal needs and the necessary staff recruitment, i.e. maintenance, technical staff, administrative staff with full, physical, wage and pension rights. But we're asking if you have anything to tell us about the construction of a new modern swimming pool in Heraklion, which is necessary from what it looks like. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u150	Mr Vasiliade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. The National Sports Centre of Heraklion includes the facilities that operate and supervise the legal person of the National Sports Centre of Heraklion. The aim, Mr Syntagakis, of the respective administration of a sports centre - which, as you know, is to make effective use of mobile and immovable property with a view to the safe operation of the facilities it operates, taking into account the economic and social dimension of its users. Despite the very narrow financial framework that you know is in place, we have managed with sound financial management, the level of the regular ECDC grant to rise - I tell you for the last two years - from EUR 662 000 in 2016 to EUR 780,000 in 2018, i.e. we have had an increase in these close frameworks of 18%. Usually in the end, on the basis of economics, some larger liquidity injections are also made. In all this, of course, there is also an old debt repayment programme that has accumulated. We're in good condition on Crete. The situation in other R&D&Is harder. From the amount of state grant which is indeed several times marginal, I will admit this - I cannot hide it already, it also comes out of data - the payroll of both officials and the costs of repair and maintenance of all the sports facilities operated by the ECAF should be covered, given that for many years they have been unconscious. The payroll, to see, from the total amount of the 780,000 euro grant is 300,000 euros a year. The cost of oil for running the swimming pool at 174,000 euros. Because there has also been a problem and you have asked me a question about it before the beginning of the year with the heating of the pool, there has been a change in the supplier who signed a new contract on 8/1. Due to costs, water temperature to some extent had decreased. Today this has already been restored. The cost of chlorinating the other materials for cleaning the swimming pool is EUR 150,000 per year. So the fixed costs we have are 624,000 euros. With these economic data from 2015 until today we have restored the rooms of the small pool and changed the electronic table and touch plates so that they can host high-level matches, although much work still needs to be done. We changed the lighting, from which, of course, we saved money, because we put on the new systems that burn less and cost us as well 20 000 euros, and the next time we cooperated with the Region of Crete, which will take up the cost of rebuilding the rooms of 150,000 euros, we have included further work to restore and maintain the facilities of 150,000 euros. By August 2018, unfortunately you know that and you know it better than I do, recruitment of new staff cannot be done. Unfortunately, there is no interest in movement, for secondment and through mobility towards sports facilities. Inside the plans is the increase in the regular grant - I say that a piece is already being implemented - and we believe, seeing the financial data and the economic data, how we go, we will have a higher increase by the end of the year and even better numbers by next year. We intend to find - and here we are in discussions with the Ministry of Finance - a part - and this is an open debate, but we can neither announce it nor commit ourselves at the moment - from the taxation of bets to be reassigned to sport, particularly to amateur sport, where we have a very big problem right now, both in our federations and in our sports facilities that belong not only to the public but also to the municipalities, because that is where great intervention is needed. Now to build the new swimming pool. It is really a great need for Heraklion to build a new swimming pool, but unfortunately I cannot see it in the immediate horizon. You agree or disagree, even if we go with that logic, with the logic of the PPPs, bathing facilities, given that they must also serve clubs, are facilities which are particularly costly and do not come out economically. So it could not be built without a great deal of burden on both the citizens and the unions. In this sense, we expect the Municipality of Phaistos to bring us a study to restore the swimming pool of Phaistos, to decongested the movement, as far as possible, of the central swimming pool and to find ways of intervention. The need is really very great, but I think that administration is doing the best it can within the narrow budgetary framework. The next time we will be announcing greater contributions to Heraklion' s EPC and, in particular, to the tartan, to dismantle the Panghretio a little, and to enable more citizens to use the facility, which indeed has very big problems accumulated from the past. But budgets are really suffocating.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u153	Minister, we listen with great interest to the contributions you have made, but it is a common assumption - it may be that the government is outside this common assumption, but in any case - that parents, coaches, people who are experiencing this relentless situation in Heraklion have a different view. I say this for the following reason: You have tried to give a impression of better management than the previous governments. The question is not whether you are better or worse managers than previous managers. Alas! We are talking about a country, which is the main feature of which? The sea. Thousands of children have the need to go to the swimming pools. So it makes sense that there was a policy of such a policy, a planning for how to exploit all this potential, really push into amateur sport, the student, the worker. There are many ways of developing mass popular sport, but it is not in the political direction of this government, like the previous ones. And this situation has got to stop here. And did you even admit that what we are doing, namely these emblematic solutions, management solutions, why? Because the financial framework is too narrow. I mean, you can do more than you do. But the necessity speaks of much more. The way things are today, those who are called to support the swimming pool in Heraklion who are they? And I am saying that I did not hear 'that for all of Crete things are good'. I referred to Heraklion's swimming pool and added the swimming pool of Phaistos. I can say that there is a bad situation, extremely bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u154	It does not function on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u155	It does not function on the substance, it does not exist. It won't work, anyway. Do you know who maintains the swimming pool today? These are not the 624,000 fixed assets you say, etc., they're the unions. The unions maintain the swimming pool on the substance. You will tell me: But do unions have no obligation on the logic of subsidiarity? Obviously, no objections, but the more this is used as a pretext for the state to be discharged from its responsibilities, the more the unions will replace the state and objectively transfer the costs to parents and young people will be deprived of the right to exercise physical treatment and even more so the people in need of swimming. In other words, the concept of reciprocity, entrepreneurship and ultimately the commercialisation of sport, sport in general, is gradually underpinned. Incidentally, as the debate brought it, we have in mind the grants from the General Secretariat of Sports for 2018 to the federations. I'll tell you about the Pollutant Federation. There's a 80% cut in the budget. We are not only talking about the Pollutant Federation, but it is a part of the problem, which you realise is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u156	Reduction in budget in relation to when, Mr. Covenant?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u157	There's a 80% reduction compared to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u158	By 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u159	Since the start of the crisis, of course, you too have come to support this reduction. The last two - three years have remained the budgets. Even if they were reduced, the little money given as a grant remains crumbs with negative consequences and the result is that the federations and unions should be invited to take the chestnuts out of the fire. And when the needs are growing, in practice, even if the budgets are stagnated, it means that they have been reduced, they are not increased. Therefore, as a Communist Party of Greece, we are reintroducing the issue, that the real needs should be financed immediately, not the limiting needs of the swimming pool, and of course we call on parents and young people to fight, in order to overthrow such a policy, that is, a policy that leads to the commercialisation of a basic social asset, such as sport, which, in our view, must be a universal right to the whole people and not a luxury to the few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u160	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u161	Mr Colleagues, I think we are seeing things a little differently, although on many points I could agree with you. I do not agree with the image of the resentment. There is a problem, indeed, but a very great effort has been made over the past three years. Improved interventions? I'll agree, there's no money to do big projects. Most importantly, though, in order for you to be able to do a great job, you should also see the financial result, whether you can somehow maintain it. What happened in the past few years, which we made big projects, we delivered them to the municipalities, we cut the ribbons, we left the snakes and then we collapsed, because no one could support them, they are beyond our logic and they will lead anywhere. So what we need to do is to manage rationally, to make the interventions that are necessary to ensure safe conditions of sport for our citizens, but all this, in the context of rational economic planning. Whether or not we are interested in our children and the swimming of children has been proved by the act when this government institutionalised and extended the swimming programme for all. Not swimming, to put it right, is the lesson of avoiding drowning for children, first of all, the third grade of all public schools in the country and, of course, where there is a pool, because there are no bathing facilities everywhere, which is very successful and we are also pioneers in Europe in this field. At the moment, the Pan-European Pollution Federation is calling on the Sports Council to adopt the corresponding measure throughout the European Union. From there, let's go to another number of grants. Obviously, parents and local society and unions are involved, but I do not want to see them dramatically. Take note of all the own revenue, which is, of course, the advertising within it, but I put it in general, the total own revenue of Heraklion's R&D&I is EUR 93 000, which means that it is one 12% compared to the grant. Public sports facilities in the European Union have a return, i.e. a return to financial management, on average 56%. In Kazakhstan, with oil, it's 20%. To us - and we have been accused of what we are trying to get into a sense of involving local society in particular in these difficult circumstances - is 12%. It's not tragic. It is not tragically great, taking into account the fact that financial data are well known and has not closed a single facility. We have barely opened up to those who have been closed this three-year period. We are trying to provide all children with the main, safe conditions of sport. For the grants from the federations, you will allow me to say, Mr Synthraki, that in at least the last two years with the financial management we have made, we have achieved an increase which is a total of more than 15%. I understand that there was a huge reduction compared to 2010, but the economic reality of 2010 is different and obviously the economic model followed before 2010, again did not come out, with the grants of EUR 10 million to a federation. All the money fell into the Greek federations. At the moment, we should also have incredible facilities in Greece and unspeakable and financially strong unions. That money's gone. The federations have begun to adapt to the new economic data. Obviously, we need to find ways of financing. Obviously we have to contact the private sector, of course, by guaranteeing their public character and by guaranteeing the rights and proper conditions for children, but under these economic conditions everyone must also assume their responsibility. Even now we're doing things. I'm telling you that last year we managed and had the same funding in relation to last year, which was Olympic year. This year we raised her. And when we have an increase of 10% on average in the original budget, it means that at least 10% will be increased by the end, because in the end you know that reallocations within the budget, etc. I think that in suffocating budgetary conditions we can be a little more optimistic. Of course, the federations must also make good financial management. Because at the moment the big problem with the federations - and that is what we will try to solve with the sporting law that will be tabled next week for consultation - is that there should be sound financial management, accountability and accountability. Unfortunately, this is where we have failed. I know that in the last three years we have sent to the prosecutor dozens of files from all federations. Unfortunately or happily, this is the reality, Greek justice found it necessary to archive almost all the cases that were sent. And we're talking about federations with fake and virtual invoices. We're not talking about bad management if they got ten coaches over or twenty balls less. We're talking about fake and virtual invoices. That's how Greek justice was judged, so we're going to go. We'll try to change the context. But I do not accept the rest at all. At least in the last three years we have managed to bring a balance and give enough money to Greek sport. I say to you that we are working on a plan so that we can find the resources lost by privatising the OPAP, which was not provided for a pillow for Greek sport, and that is a very big problem. You know that all the codes are blocked, because Greek sport was served by the SPD's special accounts. There's nothing about it. However, I would like to see the optimistic side of it that, in these suffocating conditions, we are able to make substantial contributions, without again saying, to be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. I would also like to remind you that the Committee of Inquiry into Inquiry into scandals in the health field in 1997-2014, set up in accordance with Articles 144 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and for which the Plenary Assembly has set a deadline for the submission of its findings on 20 April 2018, requesting an extension of its operation until 20 June 2018. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u163	So the House unanimously agreed. Furthermore, the Ministers for Environment and Energy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Economic, Environment and Energy, as well as the Ministers of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Finance, tabled a draft law on 18-4-2018: "Structural measures for access to lignite and the further opening up of the wholesale electricity market". This draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and is referred to the competent Standing Committee. The nineteenth under number 1229/5-3-2018 topical question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Criminality and all manner of attacks by the underworld and forage rebels", will not be discussed due to an exceptionally misguided obligation of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Panagoulis, I would ask you to speak strictly for a minute. There is no provision for you to give the floor to Members, but to the satisfaction of the Members, the Bureau has consolidated a procedure, allowing Members for a minute to express their opposition and disagreement. I would ask you very much in this minute to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u166	If not provided for this minute, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u167	No, no. I've explained. I give you the floor. You are well aware of this, as are all the Members of this House. You have the floor for a minute strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. If this isn't predicted, is the Minister of Citizen Protection expected to be here, answer, and when my turn comes to get up to leave like a rabbit? Mr President, I have tabled a topical and urgent question since 5 March, and it is the third or fourth time that Mr Toskas or Mr Toskas has either not come or today flew like a rabbit. This is a serious question about crime and all kinds of Jaundz rebels who each so upsets the center of Athens. I would like you, Mr President, to convey my strong protest to the President of Parliament, because I believe he has a great responsibility. He had assured us for many months that if the ministers are still not here to answer questions, the honourable Member will be able to develop his question. Mr. Toskas is unacceptable. Mr. Toskas should answer yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u169	Please do not go ahead with the development of the question, because beyond the time that has already expired, it is not necessary. You have, I believe, expressed your objection to dealing with your question. So let's turn it off here and go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Toskas didn't come here for two reasons today. Yesterday or the day before, two kids caught in Truman's statue and took them to court. I won't say if they went well or badly or didn't. Mr. Toskas has left children of government officials arrested both in Exarchia and elsewhere and is not coming to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Panagoulis, please don't enter any further conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u172	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u173	You said what you said. Did you express the...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Toskas hates this Chamber. And I would like to ask you to pass on to the President of the Parliament to convey my wishes because tomorrow is Mr Toskas' birthday. When others were struggling for this Chamber to work, Mr. Toskas was in front of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u175	That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Competent Authority of the Hellenic Republic and the Competent Authority of the United States of America on the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions’. The draft law was adopted by a majority in the standing committee and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does a colleague want to take the floor, on the basis of the parliamentary order? Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I have said during the committee that, although we agree with this directive, we have a reservation to allow us to speak in plenary, with fear of amendments being tabled at the last minute. As there is nothing to be added from the government's side of this bill, we have nothing to do with the substance. Let us know if there is any other procedural issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u179	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u180	I have to submit a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u181	So it is not an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u182	No, I just have to report it. As I had said to the Committee, in Article 4 of the draft law, the words ‘until 31 March 2018’ shall be replaced by ‘until 31 May 2018’.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u183	I would ask that the proposed legislative improvement be distributed to the honourable Members. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor, from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, we also had reservations to make a comment in plenary, despite the fact that, as I have said repeatedly, we are consistently voting in favour of the directives and international conventions of the country. I noted this because the corresponding multilateral agreement, which we adopted by law in 2013, which is the legal basis for this bilateral agreement, which we are currently dominating, between the competent authorities of Greece and the United States, has not voted for. We have expressed our reservations about the provisions relating to the incomes of groups of multinational enterprises, which are 750 million, so they do not actually involve companies established in Greece, and the level of the fines for not submitting a declaration, which is EUR 20 000, and the inaccurate statement, which is EUR 10 000, which we consider to be too small, in relation to the size of these multinational groups. Mr President, with what I said, it goes without saying that we are voting for the ratification of the Convention, but I have taken the floor, on the basis of the reservation I had given, because I had raised two incidental issues which I would like to raise again, asking for the Minister's reply to them. On the basis of the ratification of the multilateral agreement between the European Union and the OECD on automatic exchange of information, the legal basis is - as I said - the convention, which we are voting on today, we have asked the Minister to ensure that, in the presence of the Independent Public Income Authority, we have a briefing here in the House of Parliament on what these conventions have done for our country, which we are voting on. Because after the 2013 Convention, we have voted for others, which the present government has introduced and are improving. I would like to say to the Minister that I read the report of the Independent Authority of 2017, which says he has started receiving information from the automatic exchange, but to that extent. It does not tell us from which countries it is, or at what level it is. So that's an incidental matter. The second incident, which I had put, Mr President, has to do with the government's agreement to the European Commission to delete Panama from the so-called 'black lists'. It was Mr. Chakalotos, if I'm not mistaken, who agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u185	He didn't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u186	On the same day I watched Mr. Tsipras from Patras - it is the headquarters of the Region of Western Greece - to defeat his political opponents for the so-called Panama Papers. I therefore put the question to the State Secretary, who was present because this act of the government leads to a loss of revenue. And I substantiated it by the fact that, on the basis of Law 4172/2013, i.e. the Code on Income Tax and Article 23, the costs incurred by companies established in Greece with transactions in countries, which are on the so-called 'black lists', i.e. non-cooperating lists, are not recognised. As a result, since Panama leaves the countries on "black lists", the costs of Greek businesses to the enterprises located there are recognised. Their profitability is therefore reduced and their capacity is therefore reduced. That's a loss of revenue. The Minister replied to me that Panama left the blacklists because it ratified the agreement, which our country has ratified, but was unable to answer if there is information on the companies established there. I would therefore like to say two things and I shall end, Mr President: I am either mistaken, that is to say, the Minister is right, that we have no loss of revenue, and that is why Mr Tsipras wrongly blames his political opponents for having Panama-based operations or I am right, because we have not exchanged information and lost income. In any case, since the government is now conducting good international conventions and agreements and ratifying them, it is good, when we vote on them, to inform us of the outcome, and of the outcome of the rest of its actions, on the basis of which cases are recorded. And it will be interesting to discuss the question I have tabled. Thank you, Mr President, and I am waiting for the Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u187	Good, Mr. Kutsuko. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Germenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law is introduced to the vote in the context of the well-known tactics of all Greek Memorandum governments in recent years to try to cut off the evil of tax evasion and the inconsistency of the multinational groups, through the conclusion of various bilateral transnational agreements and conventions incorporating them into domestic legislation. Such is the ratification we are debating today between Greece - which is mentioned in Part One of the draft legislation under consideration - and the United States of America for exchanging reports by country. Of course, we should remind you here that when you were still at 4%, then you were on the railings and yelling 'laughter peoples, Americans!'. You've had a big fight against the president of America, Trump. Then you become government and give help and sign such sanctions with the Americans and President Trump. It should be noted that some time ago we had two other legislations, namely Law 4484/2017, which had been passed on 25 May 2016 and another relevant multilateral agreement of competent authorities on the exchange of reports by country of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation, the OECD. It could well have been that this sanction had then been introduced into those sanctions and we should not be talking here today about a further round for the counterparties. Counterparties claim to want to increase transparency in tax matters at international level, in order to improve access for their tax authorities to information on globally allocated income, paid taxes and certain indicators for identifying economic activity between tax jurisdictions, in which groups of multinational enterprises carry out their activities. These are hypocritical declarations by these states, since they exclude groups of multinational enterprises with a turnover of less than EUR 750 million, which in this case are exempted from the reporting obligation by country, in accordance with the second article of the draft law in question. Both the government and its parties - in introductory words - must state this: we are debating a sanction which the parties, who vote against it, are supposed to take the floor, not the parties that vote for it. Mr President, you have given the floor to both the New Democracy and the PASOK to say that they are finally voting in favour of this ratification. There was no reason. Just listens to PASOK that what he said when it was a government in PASOK and New Democracy and SYRIZA was on the rails, now that SYRIZA brings them, is signing the PASOK. There's a mystery relationship. However, the Bureau gives the floor - not you in particular, Mr President, to the coroner, there is this new fashion - to parties that are voting in favour. That's the mystery of the case. It has already been mentioned that fines are funny. The fines for a company with a turnover of EUR 750 million are EUR 20,000 and, if paid directly, it is reduced to half, i.e. EUR 10 000, in the event of a late or inaccurate report. In short, multinational colosses, supposedly controlled, if illegal, face the risk of imposing a fine, equal to what is imposed on the owner of a pit or a pit, if it does not cut off any proof or if it has an undeclared worker. This is the hypocrisy, which we say, the Golden Dawn, in relation to the authors of this agreement. Honestly, it's a deal - mocking with such fines. And we're not just talking about fines, that our problem is 20,000 euros. Our problem is that in general, we believe that the fraud of tax evasion cannot be chased, when the House itself has covered the tax-gatherers, the parties, has covered "NOVARTIS", covering armaments, has covered all kinds of corruption. How will you give a good example to multinational colossal companies when these companies go up and down governments? We, in the Golden Dawn, believe that walls should be raised to such companies - colossals of globalisation - 'George Soros', to return to the nations - states, to return to national taxation, people again to decide who governs him, because they have filled all ministries and are run by people who speak the German language. That is the only way we believe that there will be a barrier to any attempt at immunity, tax evasion and fraud in these multinational companies. We believe in the nations - states, peoples, not without borders, but with borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u189	Before I give the floor to Mr Karathanasopoulos, on behalf of the Bureau, Mr Germenis, I would like to say that in the respective debates on the sanctions bills of this type, which we are discussing today, of course we are giving the floor to those who have expressed their objection, they have voted 'against' in committee. At the same time, however, we must give the floor to those who have declared reservation. In this regard, three parties expressed their reservations in the committee responsible for ratification when they were discussed in order to table their views and, respectively, the vote or the intention to vote against it. So do not confuse the Bureau, because we also give the floor to those who may then prove themselves in the Chamber to vote in favour of a sanction. This is at the bottom of the line, the right of each parliamentary group to decide, but also to change the vote, if you like. That's her right. The Bureau is not for this reason to indicate what they will vote on and whether they will vote on it. The political conclusions, depending on everyone's vote and the position that supports this vote, should come out of everyone, but also from those who hear us and see us. Mr Carathanasopoulos, on behalf of the Communist Party you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. There would seem to be a contradiction between the declarations and the supposed practice of the United States on tax justice and their concern about the fight against tax evasion and on the other hand, the bombings, the imperialist interventions that kill peoples, share markets, control wealthy sources, doing these wars. But there is absolutely no contradiction. What they do in times of war during imperialist interventions also do during imperialist peace, with the gun on the front, against the peoples, for the benefit of the multinationals. So it is hypocritical that the United States, the European Union, the OECD, the urban governments and Greece should try to tackle - allegedly - tax evasion, try to deal with the practices of multinationals, tax havens and offshore. And that, why? Because, through this process, they are trying to cover up the face of competition, which exists between the imperialist centres for which multinationals will have the upper hand in sharing, the undeclared trade war, which exists between the United States, on the one hand, and the European Union on the other, with the parallel fines, which they are putting to their multinationals and on the other hand they are saying. That interest is hypocritical, why? Because the governments of the European Union, the other countries - members of the OECD, the United States - support with nails and teeth, in every way, the interests of monopolistic groups, multinationals, large capital. Can we see the various laws that form a favourable field of action for these multinationals? Privatisations, development incentives, financial packages, tax incentives, special tax schemes? For example, in Greece we see the tax regime for shipowners, as well as a number of other measures of totalitarian attack, which take and legislate against labour rights, the rights of professionals, self-employed persons, and popular rights. Secondly, they accept, support, legislate the logic of confidentiality, from tax, banking, commercial secrecy and a number of other secrets, the anonymities of shares. So, in this process of confidentiality, all these "natures", all these "flowers" of tax evasion, the circulation of black money and all its transactions, which they do. The third element is freedom of movement for capital, goods and services, a logic which the European Union accepts, the Greek Government accepts. Fourthly, it accepts all these governments - not to say them again at the outset - the existence of various forms of anonymous companies and business activities by offshore companies, but also routes, which exist between multinationals, their subsidiaries, associates, all these so-called triangular routes and cannot be taken differently. It is, of course, hypocritical, because all of them are competing for the placement of the best, the greatest tax havens. The so-called Panama Papers did not come out at random. They just came out of the United States, because these funds, which were accumulated in Panama, want to be transferred to states in the United States, which are already tax havens, for example - if I am not mistaken - Nevada. And a number of other such states of the United States make this competition. As also in the European Union itself, there are global tax havens. And we are not talking about the overseas islands of Great Britain or other former empires, but we are talking in countries such as the Netherlands, such as Belgium, such as Ireland or even other such countries, which are the main tax havens and which, in essence, provide immunity to big capital, to accumulated wealth. Finally, it is hypocritical, because we have voted, as the previous rapporteur mentioned, for dozens of such international and multilateral contracts to fight, it is assumed, for tax evasion, and instead of the tax evasion of multinationals, large monopolistic groups, they are increasingly accumulating wealth, they are increasingly controlling larger parts of the markets and sectors of the economy. Overcompensated funds are being widened in the various tax havens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this respect, therefore, all these plans, all these agreements and contracts have nothing to offer in this supposed battle. The real battle, which you are doing in the name of combating tax evasion, is nothing more than the pretext for unleashing new waves of tax raids against people's incomes, against poor, populist strata. For example, you put in the same bag the tax evasion of billions which a multinational can do with the proof of a cheese pie that a cheese pie has not cut off. Imagine how many billions of cheese pies have to sell and hide them, to cover a transaction that makes a multinational. We say this precisely because you put them in the same bag and, on the other hand, because on the pretext of combating tax evasion, through the reduction of tax rates in business groups, you transfer tax revenues, which are necessary, to concentrate on the backs of the workers, the pensioners, the self-employed and the people's groups. On the one hand, you are creating favourable tax regimes, reducing the tax rates for business groups and, on the other, increasing the tax burden on the people. For this very reason, the JRC is also voting against this bilateral agreement between Greece and the United States.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Cavalellas has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. The fact is that there is a global need to address international tax issues that have arisen because of the integration of national economies and markets and related restrictions on tax rules. In this context, the ratification of the Agreement between Greece and America on exchanging country reports is a special agreement of the already existing Convention on avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion in terms of income taxes. Thus, with the activation of automatic country-by-country exchange of reports, useful information will emerge in the tax administrations of the two countries on the assessment of high risks, in relation to intragroup prices and other risks, in relation to the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits. All of this will obviously take place in an environment of strict provisions on information, which will be exchanged and, in particular, on their confidentiality, their disclosure restrictions and the purposes, which can be used, so that we do not have illegal phenomena, let us say, competition. This agreement between the two countries aims to enhance transparency in tax matters at international level and to improve the access of tax authorities to information relating to income allocation worldwide, paid taxes and certain indicators for identifying economic activity between tax jurisdictions, in which groups of multinational enterprises are active. This will provide significant benefits at social level too, as the sense of social justice will be strengthened, given that tax consciousness and compliance are now established, as the possibility of taxpayers avoiding in whole or in part the taxation of their profits in Greece is limited. On the practical side now: The report will form part of a standardised intragroup transaction documentation approach which will provide tax administrations in the two countries with relevant and reliable information on the implementation of an effective and reliable risk analysis in relation to intragroup transaction prices. For the purpose of the correct and effective implementation of the Agreement, the conditions for exchanges of information, the cooperation procedures of the competent authorities, the confidentiality aspects of information, the case-solving process, the penalties controlled up to the authorized provisions for the adoption of decisions by the commander of the AACC concerning the procedure for submitting country reports are laid down in detail. We have nothing but to wish, therefore, for the implementation of the agreement to be ratified to be a useful and essential tool in the redesign of the global tax environment, in accordance with the rules of the economy and markets, which require profits to be taxed where economic activities are carried out. Although we have some reservations about individual issues, such as the practical simulation of small ones with large ones, we will vote positively because it is a step towards improving the economic issues arising from external or even domestic transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. The cycle of special speakers and rapporteurs has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u195	Here, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I asked for the floor to clarify the following: Firstly, the legislative improvement that the Minister has given us is self-evident that we accept it. That's practically the way it has to be done. The second thing I want to say is that, as I said in my brief speech earlier, the reservation was that ours had something to do with something new that will be submitted. And I respond to the comments from colleagues who have heard earlier and not to give us a good reason to say the same thing and say the same thing again. And the third - and I close - on the point made by Mr Koutsuku, is that the agreements of this kind to have a practical value for us, too, would be a good thing for the Minister to come after six months and give us an account of the outcome of these agreements. Because we sign them well, but I very much fear that this may be a bureaucratic process that does not contribute and solve any problem of our daily lives. If these data exchanged are not exploited, then for free we sign, for free they sign these contracts. I would therefore say that the Minister will come after some time and give us the account of these agreements and how they have been used for tax purposes, but also for commercial purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. The circle of interventions by rapporteurs and specialist speakers has been completed. Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for two minutes, and then Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u198	I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister here to refer a little to the broader government scenario and not to the particular legislation on which I think Mr Vlachos has been placed before me. Madam Secretary, the entire government script and the entire government account, I fear, is falling apart. Debt this year is 191.3% of GDP. It is the highest percentage in the Memorandum and, of course, in the pre-memorandum period. The growth from 2.5% to 2%. The IMF forecast for the primary surplus already yesterday is below 3.5%, at 2.9%, compared with government forecast of 3%. The Council of State's decision is in the air. Honestly, the government must come and reposition itself. Mr Chakalotos should be here at least, if not the Prime Minister, and reinstated on the government economic scenario. Because none of what has been predicted, none of what has been said, nor has there been any provision for the development of the budget, any of what constitutes the government's account to the Greek society, any of this remains. Clear exits, etc., I dare no longer to repeat them because they are sounded out of this Chamber. So if there is a fundamental government responsibility on your part, we should ask the Minister of Finance and, in conclusion, the Prime Minister with the overall responsibility for the government to come and tell us what the state of the country's economy is. Because what the government tells us, if you'll excuse me, Minister, but they're the absolute fairy tales.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u199	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor, as I said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u200	I am simply replacing our rapporteur who is abroad. However, I want to say a half a word. Although the development, with the IMF's new assessment, is at 2% rather than 2.6% and some other amendments, but it has taken note of the hard opposition Members' attention that in the two adopted prerequisites - and I risk being exposed - that the pensions will be reduced and taxfree will fall, those who are present in Jerusalem are almost certain that they will not apply. I do not want to say any more because for some, disaster has become a second six. Their right. I believe destruction is the port of the desperate. The country is finally coming out of this crisis and will appear in a very short time. We are positive about this proposed cooperation with the United States, and that is what I came to express for the Independent Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor. After Mr Theocharopoulos, Minister, you will take the floor to close the sitting and follow the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, we in the ratification of the agreement are positive. We are not exercising a sterile opposition, as SYRIZA did when he was in the opposition. On the occasion of the presence of Mrs Papanatsiou, who is Minister at a critical ministry for the country and the Ministry of Finance, there must also be some answers to the wider elements currently happening. Ms. Papanaceu, let me inform you from now on. The MPs of the Democratic Integration and the River first - first - have called for the so-called'solistic plan' to be discussed in the House. It's been discussed, we're learning with our partners, with your lenders. There is no knowledge of the Greek Parliament. We are only learning them from publications and will you come to the critical moment, to what you will have shaped and say 'but, do you not want to consult parties on this matter'? That's not the way to consensual. It can't be a card. These should be discussed at the appropriate time within Parliament. You should get the Antipolistic suggestions, see them, so that a longer-term plan can be drawn up. I read Moscovisi today, which you often mention in your government. It says that after 20 August we will need a new agreement with the partners - it does not mention it as a memorandum of course - which controls reforms and budgetary discipline, that is to say, the 3.5% surpluses, which require overtaxation, and all that, despite being one of the most friendly in our country, Moscovisi. If this information is kept in the next few years, as I imagine you will not sign it for years to say that we will not stick to them or be blamed for them next, if you have the aim of keeping them, it means that there will be a kind of agreement then, which will bind the country. Hard surveillance is what is being discussed at the moment, so that we do not play under the terms. So don't lie to the Greek people. Things are very difficult. Some of which we are committed to as a country - you are committed - must change. For example, the primary surplus of 3.5% does not come out for five years. It should be at least 2%. The public debt is now in need of a brave restructuring and we have not actually seen the new restructuring. In fact, the new German Finance Minister says that in order for debt restructuring to be discussed, there should be tough surveillance. He is a social democrat, who is considered one of the most friendly in our country, but he tells you this. That is why we are saying that there should not be a new one - in introductory words - 'fraud' in our country. The exit from the crisis may exist, but brave internal reforms are needed, not ear-tracking. There is a need for changes in the state's reconstruction, in the sectors of the economy, in the sectors, in brave changes, and then, in this context, there is a substantial renegotiation of these conditions that you have agreed, because it does not come out of the way. Because it is unnecessary to tell you that if we are going to talk about what you have signed by 2060, we will always be, in fact, in a recycling of the crisis. National Plan for Productive Reconstruction: This is what we call the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence - from the very beginning. We have been listening for the last few days to keep Mr. Tsipras talking about it. But, really, three years are you in the government and is there still only in the view that this Productive Reconstruction Plan of the country still exists? To do it when? When are you going to counterpopulation? Therefore, a National Generating Reconstruction Plan was needed yesterday and has not been made at the same time, the discussion of the so-called Holistic Development Plan is being held here in the House, because it is a matter of the next years and the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u203	Mrs Papanatsiou, Mr Mandas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has also called for the floor. You'll be patient, Mr. Mandash speak first, and you'll close the conversation. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u204	I will be brief, Mr President. I heard a few of what Mr Dendias said from the network, because something happened to me and I could not be in the Chamber. I have now heard Mr Theocharopoulos and I want to make a few comments. Converting the embarrassment of counterpopulation into a country's problem is a certain distance. Where are we and what's the reality? Remember. Some time ago, the Civics, mostly, did not even say that the program was over. Over time, he slowly realized he was running out of schedule. One of the prisoners. Secondly, what do the evidence show? So, how are things going? Do we have a devastation picture? Do we have an image where, day after day, the disaster is approaching? In order to reach agreement in this Chamber and in the parliamentary procedure. We claim that we are in front of critical decisions, indeed, which will determine the future of the country, but our timetable, as we said, step by step, day by day, goes in this direction. Don't rush too fast. We will indeed see these difficult negotiations that are taking place at institutional level or, if you like, at informal level, on the margins of the Spring Session of the International Monetary Fund, etc. The reality, however, is that the Greek economy is in the process of finishing the fourth assessment in time. This is also apparent in the revision of the elements of the International Monetary Fund, which you would say can also contain contradictions, such as, for example, how is it possible to revise the assessment of the reduction of unemployment more positively and, at the same time, to revise its prediction of growth more negatively? These are issues that we will see. One could speak a long time about the estimates of the International Monetary Fund. An important date is June 21st. At the same time, we need to consult on the basis of the decision of last June on debt regulation, how this is to be done. It is obvious and it is well known that there are different approaches to this issue. But there is this decision which reminds you of two basic things: firstly, that in our country for the medium term there must be a ceiling for the money we give for the debt, 15% of GDP, which determines to a large extent the direction and substance of the minimum debt measures to be taken. Secondly, it talks about the mechanism, the so-called 'French key', in relation to growth and the degree of fulfilment of the debt burden on the part of our country. So, at the moment, I think it is awkward, hasty and much more, to criticise us by the opposition or to present a picture that we are facing a disaster. We won't do them a favor once more. They'll be disproved once more. We do not claim that the next day will be an easy road. We claim, however, that our country can indeed enter a different era - and it will enter a different era in August 2018 - similar to that which has been taken by other countries, such as Cyprus, Ireland and Portugal. We'll have a picture like that. All the other things that have been said are, in fact, excessive or embarrassment and mistrust, anticipated in expectations that will never come to them, but I hope and think that will be the case. To one or the other, they will identify in the positive direction the country's future for a large social majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Mrs Papanakisou, you have the floor and the vote will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Starting with the remarks made on the country's finances, although most of them were mentioned by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, I would like to say that what we can really say is that all the time we came to close some assessments, every time we went well, we always had the same problems. They have always said that the targets will not be reached, that the evaluation will not be closed and that nothing will be done. The objectives in previous years were covered and the surpluses were above. We had overflows. Be sure that in the coming years we will have the same. The closer the exit from the memoranda, the more pressures are intensified by colleagues in the opposition. We will certainly re-examine the targets for the next few years in the mid-term debate, as is done every time. It's nothing new. What we are sure of right now is that from August onwards our country will not be in comitology. We cannot say that there will be no supervision. There is surveillance in other countries with large debts, such as Cyprus, Spain and the other countries. Let's take a look at the bill. This draft law ratifys the bilateral agreement of the competent authorities between Greece and the United States, in which the automatic exchange of reports by country is activated and put into effect. No attempt to tackle tax evasion can be made solely by national means in today's environment. The international cooperation of the tax authorities is absolutely essential and our government is making every effort to sign such agreements at bilateral and multilateral level. Fortunately the pressure from the journalistic revelations about Paradise Papers more recently or the Panama Papers earlier has helped raise awareness of international public opinion. There is now a great deal of pressure on governments and countries that have previously given tax asylum to taxpayers from other countries in order to benefit themselves. Of course, there's still a long way to go. After all, the exchange of tax information is a single weapon and not a panacea to tackle the problem of tax evasion. The automatic exchange of information has as a legal basis the Multilateral Convention of the Council of Europe and the OECD on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, ratified by Law 4153/2013. The agreement we are debating today is a more specific agreement within the framework of the Convention to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion between Greece and the USA, which was signed in Athens on 20 February 1950, in which the exchange of information for tax purposes is explicitly defined. This agreement attempts to address the problem of tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning practices of multinational companies. This was also the case with Law 4484/2017 which harmonized Greek legislation with the European Directive, 881/2016, and with Law 4490/2017, which ratified the multilateral agreement of the competent authorities of the OECD. With regard to the consolidated revenues of EUR 750 million, reported by Mr Koutsouko, the 2015 OECD report also provides for this amount for the next one, which will take place in 2020, the amount of EUR 500 million is being discussed. However, we cannot see it in this particular case, because we need to take account of the OECD report. With regard to the sanctions of EUR 20,000 and EUR 10,000, because the submission of country-by-country reports constitutes, by keeping a documentary file and a summary of information, part of the tax obligation to document intra-group transactions, the proposed sanctions are proportionate to those provided for in Laws 4484/2017 and 4490/2017 on the exchange of country-by-country reports in the framework of the European Union and the OECD. I would like to tell you here that the ratification of an agreement with the United States is our overall policy to strengthen cross-border cooperation, to tackle international tax evasion and avoidance, and our aim is to find a taxable material, wherever it is located, to improve tax compliance and ultimately achieve fair and rational tax policy, as well as equal conditions of competition between companies. As far as the Panama Agreement is concerned, I will repeat what I have said to the committee on the issue raised by Mr Koutsoukos: The twenty-eight countries of the European Union have agreed on the way and the procedure to be applied for drawing up the list of non-cooperative countries. No one voted for that. There's a deal beforehand. The European Union has established a number of conditions for which countries they will be in tax havens, who will be on the blacklist, who will be able to leave the blacklist to get into the gray list. If the planned measures are implemented and agree to be closely monitored by the competent authorities, they may request their exclusion from the blacklist. During this process Panama accepted the conditions and controls and was transferred to the grey zone. Our aim is not to leave the countries on the blacklist. I think you'll agree. Our aim is to leave the blacklist and to be converted into countries that are now fiscally cooperative. The decision to strengthen monitoring serves precisely this objective. The European Union list does not prohibit Member States from having their own national lists. Nevertheless, in a few days' time - probably today, I am not sure - we have signed a ministerial decision of the Ministry of Finance, in which Panama is also in the countries that will give the first time information exchange in 2018. In the countries that will now have the first information, among the countries that join us, is Panama for 2018. As far as expenditure is concerned, in a non-cooperative State which, as you said, is not allowed under the income tax code, Mr Koutsouko, if it is proved to be real and ordinary by the company, then they will be deducted. Therefore, this is a fighting presumption and I would just like to read to you Article 23, precisely what it says and to put it in the Minutes. ‘Article 23, FEK I’167, n.4172 - as you mentioned - Non-exploited business expenditure. All expenditure paid to a natural or legal person or legal entity resident in a non-cooperative State or subject to a preferential tax regime in accordance with Article 65 of the Income Tax Code, unless the taxpayer demonstrates that such expenditure relates to real and ordinary transactions and does not result in a transfer of profits or income or capital with a view to avoiding or avoiding tax. The provisions of the preceding subparagraph shall not preclude the deduction of expenditure paid to a natural or legal person or legal entity resident in a Member State - a Member State of the European Union or the Single European Area where there is the legal basis for the exchange of information between Greece and that Member State.’ I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to mention a few points which Mr Amyras referred to, although they are not here, in relation to ELDORADO and the study of a non-profit-making SOMO centre for aggressive tax planning for this company in Greece. Mr Amyras had put it in committee, and I would like to mention it. To the best of my knowledge, this study describes how the Netherlands attracts multinational enterprises without real economic activity, as stated in the report there and ELDORADO, which lend their subsidiaries and are, in turn, borrowed by other companies established in non-cooperative States, resulting in tax evasion and erosion of the tax bases of the Member States operating real activity. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the problem of aggressive tax planning is not resolved at national level, but at European Union level. Already, the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, Mr Moscovici, with a view to publishing reports on aggressive tax planning, has announced to the press that there is such an issue in seven Member States of the European Union, particularly in Belgium, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and the Netherlands. I would also like to inform the House that the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, at the European Council meeting on 22 and 23 March 2018, was in favour of imposing a tax on multinational digital colleges where they produce wealth and also supported the establishment of the common consolidated corporate tax base in order to tackle unfavourable tax evasion practices. From what you can understand, in addition to the actions we take at our country level with the targeted controls, by legislating where we must also in the European Union, so that we can have a single tax, so that we can have the results for the tax evasion of large companies, multinationals as much as possible. I keep your proposal to see what has happened with the information we receive from the exchange of information. Already, I've transferred it to the commander of the ADP. I do not know if he will be able to be ready when he comes to the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the results of the EDP. If he's ready, we can talk about it at the same meeting. If it takes some time to process the information, the six months mentioned by the honourable Member, I think it is a good year to be able to gather the information and bring us the information. I'll transfer it and try to do it in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Constitution of the Agreement between the Competent Authority of the Hellenic Republic and the United States Competent Authority for the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u212	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u216	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Competent Authority of the Hellenic Republic and the Competent Authority of the United States of America on the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u221	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u225	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the second paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u234	The second article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u243	The third paragraph of Article 3 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule four, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u252	The fourth article, as amended by the Minister, was therefore accepted by a majority vote. Does this House agree to the fifth paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u257	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u261	The fifth paragraph of Article 5 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u270	The sixth paragraph of Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u279	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Competent Authority of the Hellenic Republic and the Competent Authority of the United States of America on the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u283	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u288	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Constitution of the Agreement between the Competent Authority of the Hellenic Republic and the Competent Authority of the United States of America on the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u290	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-04-19-S1-commons.u291	With the consent of the House at 13.56' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 20 April 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) a debate on topical questions; b) a debate on the topical question of responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Development tabled by the President and eighteen Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence PASOK - DIMAR on the subject: "The government is persecuting large investments from the country: incompetence or ideological obsessions?".
