ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 9-1-2018 authorisation, the minutes of its NG meeting of Tuesday, 9 January 2018, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law "Amendment of Article 5 of the Legislation of the "Muslim Religious Operations Act" (A'182) validated by the article alone No.1920/1991 (A'11)" were ratified by the Bureau.]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Finance, Home Affairs, Economic and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and Tourism, and the Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Financial Affairs, Health and Energy, Environment and Rural Development and Food have tabled a draft law on 9-1-2018: ‘Adjustments for the implementation of the structural reforms of the Financial Adjustment Programme and other provisions’. This draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent and has already been referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue by reading the reports. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the second, with the number 757/8-1-2018, a topical question of the Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Evris Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Restoration of wounded in Western Attica". Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in a few days' time they close two months from the murderous flood, which cost twenty-four people life, and still today the Western Attica, and especially the regions of Mandra, but also New Peramos, are facing huge problems not only in infrastructure issues, but also in households and businesses, really, they are forced to start from scratch and find the forces to start from scratch. And of course, the municipal authority and local authorities are trying, in cooperation with the region, to deal with the problem. My question at this stage is more about how the government helps restore. I have tabled another question, but it is not here, for prevention and for the future. Minister, three are the issues that are immediately. The first concerns the restoration of losses through the exceptional financial assistance of EUR 580 per household for the construction and damage to dwellings in general. Our information is that the government in the last two days has finally deposited the money, which I hope you can confirm, because today we have two months of the flood and there are people who have not been able to do so. You are well aware that the Municipality of Mandra - Idyllia from own resources had begun, at least in five hundred cases and had given out of its own money, waiting for this government aid. I would therefore like to ask you to give us here in Parliament the information on whether these days the money has been paid to continue to pay for the construction and restoration of damage. I would also like you to tell us, Minister, whether you are going to provide exceptional financial support for the money you have already given. [[At this point, the bell of the end of the sitting of the Member is ringing.]] Mr President, leave me one, two minutes, I am not going to get far. I just want to finish the two arms of the question. The second one, therefore, concerns exceptional financial aid beyond the EUR 500 000 already received by the Municipality of Mandra, which, as you can see, is not even enough for a city which has been completely destroyed. I think, Mr President, that if you visit it too - the Minister has gone - you will see a town that is literally like bombed. The needs are enormous, Minister, and I really want you to tell us what further financial support you will give for the restoration of the infrastructure in Mandra. The third, which is equally important, is that the technical service of the municipality is one of the most subordinated. There is a need and the municipality has already approached the Ministry of Infrastructure and the region to send engineers. So tell us what tools and possibilities you have as an Interior Minister in this emergency need to give aid to the municipal technical service, so that at least small projects can be completed. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, I think the least we can do in the case of Mandra is to be able to mobilise the state mechanism in an attempt to limit, in any case, the suffering of people because of this disaster which had no precedent and which had a great human cost. If anyone sees the size and degree of mobilisation of the state services, I think it can come to the conclusion that what was possible on the basis of the available means, the way that this state organized, its pathogens and its potential in general. I say this as a conclusion, which is founded on specific facts. I would like to remind you that on 15 November the catastrophic floods, the fatal floods and on 20 November the Ministry of Interior approved the first sums for the Municipality of Mandra and the Municipality of Megares, which were EUR 500,000 and EUR 400,000 respectively and then there was another amount of EUR 250,000 for the Municipality of Mandra. These were directed to tackle the first disasters. It was directed to the municipality, to the account "theorems", as it is signed, as well as to address water issues. From that point on, in the case of Mandra, and in a number of other cases, which took place at the same time, you know that for the first time the Greek Government proceeded with the emergency aid of EUR 5,000 and EUR 8 000 for natural persons and businesses, which was, if you wish, outside the governments' possibilities and practices. It was not only for Mandra, it was also for a number of other municipalities throughout Greece. This money, at their biggest place, has already been taken by the beneficiaries. At the same time, all these procedures, such as joint ministerial decisions, on behalf of the Government, concerning aid from the Ministry of Labour by means of a transfer of payment from the Ministry of the Interior and EUR 449 552 for Mandra and EUR 293,470 for the Megaras, namely for the New Peramos region, have been completed from the previous year. This money should already, perhaps today we are talking about, have been credited to the municipality's account. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] At the same time, the joint ministerial decision, which provides for the demarcation of the affected area, has been drawn up and taken by the FEK, so that what remains at the moment is the money that the Ministry of Finance gives to compensate business. In other words, aid to the affected, natural persons and businesses, to the municipality, has already been given to the largest part. You realise that the response rate is also dependent on the municipality's services. The demands come not all together, but gradually. All the necessary amounts have been secured at the moment. Furthermore, on the crucial issue of the staff you have said, the Municipality of Mandra knows that it has the possibility under the existing legislation to take exceptionally and dimenis and octades and octadequate workers. So the mayor has this tool in her hands and has to implement it. He knows who the laws are. It is Law 3584/2007 and Law 4225/2015. I'll tell you one thing. As far as the services of the central state are concerned, if there are no synergies and good cooperation with the municipality and the region, the result will not be what we want. And vice versa is true. As much as a municipality operates well, if there is no central service response, we will still not have the desired result. So the message, I think, is that we should be able to use it as soon as possible, and I think that we have moved in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u6	Mr Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I am pleased first because you confirm that the funds are already on the way to the Municipality of Mandra and the Municipality of Megaron for Nea Peramos, through the Ministry of Labour. This, indeed, is a wishful work. I will disagree with you - and it is not a matter of party controversy - that all the perpetrators or most of them have received this extraordinary aid. It's not true. A lot of them have taken it, but a lot of them have taken it from the municipality's own resources. Therefore, the municipality, even if it has other resources to direct them to do even the small-scale works that it can do on its own, you understand he's blocked. It is therefore very important that this money should come and I am glad that you confirm it. Now, the second is that I didn't hear you say you were going to do more about Mandra. I'm going to invoke the help of the President, because the Agrinio has got something more to do. I do not in any way want to compare one region with another. To God, Mr President, I do not want to be misunderstood, but I really want to say that the extraordinary aid you have told me, the EUR 500,000, in relation to the enormous damage that Mandra has suffered, is not enough, Minister. And for the water shortage fund - which you mentioned the water supply - that was requested by the municipality of EUR 150,000 and that was EUR 250,000, it is indeed so. Do not forget, however, that this sum has to do with the water supply of the other settlements, the Violins and the Reds, that is, it's not just for Mandra, it's also for the villages around - around. So it's a complex situation. So I want you to commit that you can provide more money to the Municipality of Mandra. As far as the dimenites and octamites are concerned, there is a process that is likely - we will see - the Municipality of Mandras starting it. I don't know. I got it. But, apart from the dimenites, one could quickly distract or if you like - there are all the tools in the public sector - to make available engineers for a period of time either from the region or from the Ministry of Infrastructure, in cooperation with you - the government is working uniformly, as it is due by the Constitution - so that a problem can be solved for a few months. We must be a little simpler, a little more direct. At the same time, I conclude by agreeing with you that synergies are needed. And that is why at the first moment when we visited the region and civil protection services, when the flood in the West Attica hit, but then, on the visit by Mrs. Gennimatas to Mandra, we said that, and we are helping us for that very reason. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only mention one last, Minister, that this is the situation in Mandra, which, when it rains, parents are afraid to send their children to school. One of the demands that has been directed towards us and with us, is that we also need psychologists, we need social workers, again through mood for a few months or some secondment of psychologists, social workers, until there is reorganization and demand from the municipality. I think that would also be in the right direction. I am referring to only one aspect from an area which has been affected not only by its infrastructure, but also by people's souls, which is not of minor importance. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u8	However, Mrs Christophilopoulou, for Ioannina everything that applied to Mandra and Samothraki was true. That and nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u9	No, be careful, Mr. President. I don't compare the two regions. I'm just suggesting the Minister to give at least as much as he does to Agrinio.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u10	Okay. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u11	In any case, at the moment, I think it is useless to compare situations that are often not similar. It is important to be able in most cases - if not all - to meet the real needs. I repeat, because you said so in your second speech, that the EUR 5,000 emergency aid and EUR 8 000 to natural persons and businesses for the first time was implemented by Mandra. In fact, I would tell you that it is not ensured that it can be done in similar cases from now on, because it concerned money, which had arisen from the 2017 budget. From that point on, mention needs, which are fleeing from the emergencies, such as water issues and other areas of the municipality. To this end, in order to meet these needs, there are regional programmes, but in particular, the Ministry of the Interior has launched two new financial instruments to the municipalities that are directed precisely and come to meet needs, which cannot be met with resources from the region or the Ministry of Infrastructure for larger projects and are directed towards water supply issues. Of these new financial instruments, one is from the European Investment Bank's resources and the other from resources coming from last year's public investment programme not absorbed by the other Ministries and entered into a trusted account of the Ministry of the Interior, which will be for 2018 at the level of EUR 240,000,000, and will be directed for specific projects, which have to do with machinery supplies, children's playgrounds, small water, sewerage, restoration of HSF, etc. In this context, in the next month, the municipalities will now be able to address themselves and with fairly flexible procedures, and I hope - more briefly, we will be able to make disbursements. You referred to something, which is a reality, the citizens' traumatic experiences and the psychological problems that exist. I would say to you, of course, that, in order to be able to mitigate the legitimate fear of the people of Mandra, we must - and that is what we are doing - start the substantial permanent interventions so that we do not find ourselves in front of these phenomena again. This means holistic interventions as a whole in West Attica. The government at and through the regional conference, which took place in the area of the Great and Mandras, highlighted this need. Things have been heard. We are in cooperation with the authorities of the government. I believe that the foundations for definitive solutions will come in this year, avoiding the obscured and bad examples of the previous governments, where the irresponsible construction, the irrationalism, have made it legitimate and a rule with the bogey of the central authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. The first under number 749/8-1-2018, a top-stage question of the first-stage question by MP Kozani of the New Republic, George Kasapidis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the upgrading of agricultural education in Greece, will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment. Now we will discuss the second question with No 740/4-1-2018 in the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "They are excluded from the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments of four major categories of insurance debtors." Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Informing the Minister for the Interior, to say that he is right in part for the 5,000 businesses as an advance, because the procedure is provided for through the regions in order to compensate for the total and not just the 5,000 euros, which may be considered an advance. For families, however, homes, homes and homes have been provided for many years and one single first aid, as well as a replacement for building by a simple process. You set people up three times in line and still have not given the money to the building while it is very simple. Square, family members...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Kegeroglu, will we move on to your question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u15	What do you think? How do you know? You don't know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u16	You don't know well, Minister. The Ministry of Interior is a long way from reality...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u17	Crete is far from Mandra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Kegeroglu, what are we doing here? We're developing the previous question?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u19	I'm talking. As you spoke before, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u20	Please. That's not a process. Go to the question yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u21	I'm in the question of mine. You'll see how they connect. The compensation for the construction has not yet been paid, neither in Mandra nor in other cases. It's a simple process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u22	Please, Mr. Kegerolgu. Mrs Christophilopoulou has developed the question adequately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, you will not interfere in my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u24	Is my role symbolic here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u25	You won't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u26	My presence is not symbolic. Please go to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u27	You are chairing and you are not guided.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u28	I'm not guiding anyone. I'm telling you to pass on your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u29	Can you give me the time for your vacation?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u30	You've already exhausted him for your own time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u31	Look, because you speak - and you do not understand - as President and, please, give me the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u32	Go on, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u33	Immediately, then, the compensation of the households to those who deserve it should be given. Many words are poverty. Inability can't hide behind the reports in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u34	Go to your question, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u35	I'm coming to the Ministry of Labour now. I would like to refer to the negative developments concerning the MEGA, which leave the road four hundred twenty families of workers, journalists, technicians and managers. It is worth wondering that the government has not only done nothing to prevent these workers from staying on the road, but has indirectly helped to make this happen. Of course the responsibilities of the employer, the owners are great and, above all, the former owners, who have led to this negative development. We expect a statement from the Ministry of Labour about the four hundred twenty families.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u36	Now go on to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u37	Minister, when we discussed the regulation on arrangements, the extrajudicial compromise and the possibility for a hundred and twenty instalments, we had told you that there were large categories left out. We have told you that there are no people who are entitled to a second chance, those who have lost, for example, the ones who have lost, for example, the ones who are natural persons and have no business or business activity, are not included clearly and are not provided for the more than 50 000 debtors. You didn't give answers as if we didn't. You are now coming with a decision which, unfortunately, is not clear and, moreover, gives the competent authorities an excellent opportunity to judge, on the basis of their own internal procedures, sustainability and, consequently, integration into 20 doses with a completely informal system, which obviously leads to customer relations - not necessarily party or policies - and transactions and that is unacceptable. We want clean answers for the four categories to which I am referring in writing to my question, how to move, what to do, so that these four categories can be included in the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Trade margins I do not think anyone can blame the system for being there, because the conditions are so objective that it is not possible to take any action from anyone who would like to benefit without the right to do so, and no one can favour anyone if they cannot join. The eligibility conditions are specified by the framework itself, Mr Kegeroglu. There is no such case and I would like, if you can do so in your dentistry, to tell me where you draw such a conclusion. The platform category for debtors with more than EUR 50,000 and an unlimited amount of debt has already been implemented since 3 August. What we have put now - and I had answered you in your last question last year, 2017 - is for debtors up to EUR 50,000. That's well known. We are not talking about this category in this case, which will begin on 1 February in other cases. Therefore, these categories, to which you refer, have been exhausted within the framework and the platform since 3 August and the current one that will be implemented and will start to operate from the first days of February. This slight delay in launching was required in order to enable most debtors to join the regulation of this category of debtors, because the system itself would have prepared the debtor’s profile so that it would not be difficult to classify itself in the relevant application. I must tell you that nine hundred thousand debtors have a debt of approximately EUR 20,000 to 50,000. It is 83% of all debtors, who will enter this process, social security. As far as the sum of EUR 20,000 to EUR 50,000 is concerned, there are about sixty thousand debtors. I therefore think that much of the debtors' population will have the opportunity to join in this process of adjusting debts. Indeed, it will be a solution to the better collection of social security, but also to the improvement with even better performance of the revenues that the ETUC will have in 2018. I have been telling you the forecast I made during the budget debate. We will, in fact, have an exploding of the revenues of the FBI, as it was noted in 2017. Through this process, our debtors will be helped to meet and will be able to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. To talk about those who have debts below EUR 50 000, which does not include those who had a hundred instalments set and who have lost it and those who are natural persons and who are not entrepreneurs or professionals. However, even those who have created debts as freelance professionals, as an individual enterprise or as small businesses, since they closed down the company for viability reasons and the debts are not included because they no longer have their status as a professional person. I say to you immediately two charges for those who owe less than EUR 50 000. I'll give you two more charges. I have told you that with regard to those who owe the insurance funds, i.e. the former TEBE - now OAU - over 20,000 euros and the OGA over 4,000 euros and are in the front of the pension, that is to say, entitled to a pension, you only allow them to regulate up to EUR 4,000 and up to EUR 20,000. The regulation of up to EUR 50,000 has been abolished. There is now a need to revise that 2015 decision, because things have changed. Colored by an 8,000 euros in the OGA, you don't give him the pension and he can't survive. What's he gonna do? Steal? But he's paid insurance contributions. The same goes for the other OAU. He's paid insurance contributions. Some solution has to be found. Why not make a simple modification to the fact that natural persons are included in this arrangement and with the guarantee that the instalments are paid, i.e. that they are deducted from the pension? These are just things. Why don't you do that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There's a debt accumulation. That gives us more responsibility for doing so. It might not have been necessary five or ten years ago. Now it's necessary. So I tell you to see your decisions again in order to move forward. I'm finishing up with those who owe over 50,000 euros. It is possible to have arrears of EUR 50,000, EUR 60,000 or EUR 70,000, to want to regulate to pay, to be viable, only to owe the insurance fund, and you to say 'No, you cannot regulate. Should you owe the DU or the banks something?"? In the extrajudicial system you say that it must be up to 85% by a body and not 100%. So here is an irrational criterion, which needs to be changed. Since it owes an institution, whether it is the public - the IU clearly - or the insurer, to be able to regulate the hundreds of twenty instalments regardless of the amount. It can't be done. This restriction is unreasonable. He wants to pay, and you don't give him the chance, because you put a 85% rate. Bring the setting to the vote. So, do they have to give us approval for people to pay? I've been involved in such proceedings before. There's something like that. I've had them too, because the absurds can't come here and legislate. That's absurd. He says you must have a debt to two bodies. You can't do it, guys! To create debts to get in again. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u42	Be well. Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u43	Mr Kegeroglu, for someone to be found to owe more than EUR 50 000, he will obviously be an employer who owes contributions from their employees. Because you have nursed in a State Secretary for Social Security, you are aware of this. That is why the law on debt settlement has this ranking in two categories, and that is why it provides for the sum of up to EUR 50 000 to be paid to social security, because there is no way more. If it's more than that, he'll definitely be an employer who owes his employees debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u44	What if he wants to pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u45	If he wants to pay for a business that really has the ability... Usually these businesses are due both to banks and to the public...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u46	Usually! What if he doesn't have to?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u47	Rule. I don't think there's any other way. If you find another case, let's see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u48	We're not talking about the banks. We're talking about the insurance fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u49	If you've seen a case different from that rule, we'll see it. As a government, there will be issues and we will be dealing with them in the future. And there really are sides we need to see. However, do not introduce to the question of settlement of debts any other issues. Because what you said about the debt of farmers who may not be retired, and so we must increase the amount of debts, offset by pensions, are other provisions. Don't put that on me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u50	Here you can solve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u51	I have also answered your question to another timely question, explaining that the farmer's pension, at the height of which it has been formed, will be increased in the future - and I have said how - it cannot be repaid 15 years ago. When the farmer retires at sixty-seven and wants to repay his debt in fifteen years, we are definitely talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u52	Anyone who's not retired will definitely die, but not die at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u53	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu. You've heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u54	You keep interrupting me so people don't listen to the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u55	But are these things I hear he's gonna die and he won't be able to pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u56	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u57	We're all dying. I don't understand? We're gonna play with fate, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u58	Minister, do not respond to the speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u59	Is it possible to say he's going to die and he won't be able to pay? Please very much, Mr. Petropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Kegeroglu, you are very sensitive, more than I am, and you have escaped from this fate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u61	You're the same, but you've been harmonized.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u62	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u63	So I say to people and not to be misled, that farmers are not excluded from the debt arrangements, too. It is also not excluded from the debt arrangements for those with individual activity. They've shut down their activity. They can restart the activity because they have the same VAT. They can be active today. It must be...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u64	What if it owes only the OGA 10,000 to the regulation? What are you saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u65	You're asking for people to hear and be informed? Are you asking to show...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u66	But that's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u67	When he has 100,000 euros only in the OGA, is that how he regulates? You're lying raw. If it owes 10,000 euros only to the OGA, does it enter the arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u68	Please. Please. You asked the question. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u69	I don't want to lie. At least covered...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u70	All natural persons have the ability to incorporate the debt arrangement, all, all. You'll see that then, in application. The activity can therefore be any activity that results in financial results. Maybe she's different. Farmers are not excluded from the possibility of adjusting debts. They can join. There is no other case of exception than those which cannot respond to the payment of their debts over ten years. Ten years we consider that it is enough, in the light of the normal rules that we see prevailing in the economy, to be able to repay contributions. It's enough 6,000 euros a year to pay back a debt of 50,000 euros. We therefore consider that this law, as we identify it, is an adjustment to the possibilities of debtors and, of course, those who lost the hundreds of doses can also join. There is no exception to the possibility of accession. The one who lost the hundred doses can be integrated into the new possibilities of the law on debt regulation. So the only case of exception is for the one who in ten years cannot repay debts of 50,000. I said what percentages are, I said that nine hundred thousand debtors are up to 50,000 euros. It's 85% of all debtors. So don't tell me that there is a limitation on people's ability to pay. There is a broad possibility. And in our next period of government, if there are problems left to solve, you can be sure that we will resolve them with the same sensitivity as we have now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. The third, with number 773/9-1-2018, timely question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The dismissal of an employee, member of the Board of the "Constitutional Milk-Food and Drinks N. Heraklion" by the company "Savoidakis S.A.", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou. Also, the third, with number 774/9-1-2018, a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "To stop the terrorism and persecution of workers in the supermarkets of "KARYPIDIS", ensure their right to work and pay their wages," will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs Ahtsoglou. Now we will discuss the first with number 750/8-1-2018 the second time question of the new Republic MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "Finished and fragmented the results of the Government on digital organigrams". Here, Mr. Georgioda, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with Law 4440/2016- and Article 16-a law passed in December 2016 was an intention of the government and a legislature to create a digital organisational chart for public administration and local government. We welcomed this initiative. We have, of course, had specific comments, especially on Article 16, which, in part because they were made by scientific bodies, you accepted them in relation to the content of the digital establishment plan. In any case, it seemed to be the beginning of a development, which was generally good for the public, because what was envisaged was that there should be an application in which all the public bodies, the bodies registered with ELSTAT - and I would remind you that they are around a thousand hundred and thirty-three bodies - will capture their structures, have their staff and, of course, they will also be serving the staff. This would enable the central administration, at any time, to monitor what happens to the institutions, what the vacancies exist, who are those who are serving, where they are seconded or otherwise the officials who have the organic positions there, what is needed as a payroll for each of them. And, of course, it is a tool that would help both mobility and many others from their service changes. Unfortunately, thirteen months later - as you yourself said in your interview - only seven bodies have complied with and sent the data, which you requested with two circulars, even setting deadlines one for October 2017 and one for December 2017. You can understand that this is a rhythm which cannot be optimistic about what has become of the knowledge that this digital organogram is necessary. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. Badly for me, you have only linked it to mobility, so an entity, which does not wish to participate in mobility, is indifferent to it. And of course, the application you have created does not respond to the contents of the law as we have adopted it. According to your application, we have essentially a description of the structures, a printing of the structures, but precisely in the detail that Article 16 - I do not want to read it at the moment because there is no time - it gives the elements that need to be included, these are not. In any case, however, it was a start, but I think the rate of seven in a thousand seven hundred thirty demands some explanations and perhaps some additional interventions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Georgiodda, as you have said, the creation of the digital establishment plan in public, central government and local government is really extremely important. The digital organisational programmes will have the mobility system and not just. What has happened and what is happening is that there is really a delay like the one you describe. Today the platform is open, of course. Any body or body of government, which completes the procedure of the new establishment plan until the presidential decree comes in and enters. Today we have nine agencies. The number is really unsatisfactory. I will fully agree with you. However, we have to bear in mind the following: these organograms have not come to reflect the situation in which an organic plant is situated, but through this process we have a great deal of change in these plants and, above all, the reason for the delay is there. That is, of course, what we want to do, that is, we want these changes to take place. I would remind you that addresses have been removed, other addresses have been added, modernising the addresses or the organic units on the basis of today's needs. We, for our part, provide assistance to all actors and know-how and try to speed up the process. This organizational chart has come and has entered the "abstract" platform, which is already accessible, and already the first phase of mobility has been completed with the participants. In order to speed up the process, it was decided that the data should be introduced centrally by the system managers, the Human Resources Registry at the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, in order to gather data which could not be searched by the Human Resources Register and which were necessary to update the establishment plan. The relevant circular was issued on 3 October 2017, and you refer to your question. Data from this circular were requested which were not relevant to the staff. I mean, it wasn't personnel elements, but it was structure elements. Because the staff data we had from the census system. I should like to mention on the occasion who have joined this first cycle of mobility: it is the ASAP, the Independent Authority of Public Revenues, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, the Ministry of Digital Policy, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Health. To date, there has been a delay in one piece, that is, on the platform, in reflecting officials at this particular moment. But why did that happen? It happened, because when the new establishment plans come into force, employees are reinstated in these structures, based on the changes that have taken place. Anybody who completes this process will then go up on the platform. We also sent a circular on 8 December calling on the agencies to appoint officials, who will now be responsible for putting the data on the system, for these workers to be certified, so that the procedure can be carried out by these officials and not by the central administration. That's, uh, sloppy lines, the process. You should also recognise that this is a major change in the public sector. There are delays. But it comes next time to solve all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I am pleased that we have at least agreed with the Minister that there is a long delay. The digital establishment plan was established and its compliance with it is an obligation, not only of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, but also of the Ministry of Finance. Because you understand that it is a tool by which the Central Command can at any time see the body. That is to say, to see how many employees have the structures, what the contours of the positions they need, how many people actually serve, how many have been seconded, how many are elsewhere they are, how much payroll costs. All this can be done for the better management of the human resources of the Greek public. I feel sorry for the fact that thirteen months later there has been no conscience among the responsible civil servants. And, of course, there is a responsibility in the Ministry, which has not given them the opportunity to understand that obligation. It's not optional. The establishment of this establishment plan is an obligation of the administration. It is an obligation for directors. It is truly amazing that 13 months later, we see only nine bodies - and we have seen that they are central ministries and only two independent authorities - and a thousand seven hundred other bodies, which pay them the public, paid out of the budget, do not feel the obligation to enter that registration. So I think, Minister, that there must be another way and not the circulars, which, from what we see, are set dates from you, but are not respected. I saw the last one was December 15th. I do not want to ask you whether those responsible have actually been accredited again by body, as you requested. I think that you need to find a way of becoming conscious, perhaps connecting not to apply and other possibilities of the administration and not just to participation in mobility. And, of course, the organogram should be as the law describes it, because I imagine that the Greek taxpayer, the Greek citizen, would really like to have a public image. Because when we are clear about the contours and have the image of the servants, then we will also be able to understand the needs which each body and every management invoke. If there are no contours and if there is no situation for officials, we are not in a position to assess one's request. You are not able to assess it, to see if you really need staff, what specialties it takes, if you rightly need it, and whether or not you allowed it to leave this structure. It is a public image that shows the current reality and I think it will be a useful tool for you. So my request is - and we will contribute to this - to find the ways in which all the public authorities, who are paid out of the budget and the Greek taxpayer, can comply with this necessary condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u77	Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u78	Mr Georgioda, I am pleased that we agree that the whole system under which the public sector was given had irrational features and created a chaotic image of the public. Of course, I am glad that you recognise the effort and I think that this is in the interest of not the ministry or the government, but it is necessary for the country, the need for the Greek citizens to have a different public toward them. We are also moving in this direction through this system. What I did not tell you at first place was not enough time, it was your essential observation as well about the job profiles. Let me inform you that this is a very difficult process, you know, but it really comes to rationalise a large part of the structure of the system and the position in which each worker works, and what work he does there, and how he will then be assessed by means of his objective, which goes into this particular position, in this particular context, but also for his development, until he reaches the pensioner. This process has already begun and has been completed in its greatest part. Here we have asked for help and the French have helped us with technical assistance. We are working closely with EXPERTISE FRANCE and are expected to complete the subject of the outlines in the public sector, which will of course come to touch on the digital platform of the inventory system, supplemented by the other digital instruments. I would like to mention today another intervention, which comes to lock down also on all of this, in order to give the results you are saying. It is the Single Human Resources Management System, i.e. the staff member's card in the same system as a new project. The technical bulletin is almost finished and is expected to be auctioned in the next period. It's a system, which will record the employee from the time he enters the public office until he gets to his pension. It will be linked to the necessary ministries - and to the finance - so that ultimately the red tape, which is needed for both staff and for changes in responsibility, will be reduced and simplified by a very heavy bureaucratic process, which will waste time on the workers and will require more workers and, of course, it has a significant financial cost. As we all know, bureaucracy costs money. By abolishing bureaucracy, you reduce the cost of running the public. We are therefore at this stage. I will tell you that various digital organograms and the rest of the Ministries and other bodies are in the process of adopting the Presidential Decree, but you know that every time, as soon as one body is ready, it takes at least two to three months to complete the process, that is to say, to pass through the HR and to get the Presidential Decree out. It's a lot of organograms running. That is why we say that 2018 is the year of a major reform in the public sector, because a number of such actions are being completed, starting with their legislation, but indeed, it also has a practical difficulty for all public bodies, to coordinate and understand. It is all reasonable, because it is also unprecedented in public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate on the topical and urgent questions. I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the Minutes on Wednesday 1 November, Thursday 2 November, Friday 3 November and Monday 6 November 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u80	The Minutes of Wednesday 1 November, Thursday 2 November, Friday 3 November and Monday 6 November 2017 were therefore validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-11-S1-commons.u81	With the consent of the House at 10.34' the meeting for tomorrow, Friday, January 12, 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Agreements for the implementation of the structural reforms of the Economic Adjustment Programme and other provisions".
