ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] The Conference of Presidents decided at the House's meeting today to refer by the President-in-Office to the Memorial Day of the Greek Jewish Witnesses of the Holocaust and then proceed to the debate on topical questions. "In our national conscience all the children of the mother of Greece are an integral unity, they are equal members of the national body regardless of religion. Our holy Orthodox religion does not recognize higher or lower quality based on race or religion and our religion states that there is neither Jewish nor Greek and therefore condemns any attempt at discrimination or the creation of racial or religious differences. It is common that our fate in the days of glory, as well as in periods of national misfortune and the links between all Greek citizens are inextricable without exception, regardless of race." With these shocking words from the famous letter of Archbishop Damascus to the headquarters of the German occupation forces in March 1943, I, too, would like to honour this year's Memorial Day of the Greek Witnesses of the Holocaust, the day of memory of those who have witnessed in the hands of the conqueror, a day of honor of a living multiformal cell with a catalytic presence in the Greek area, found to measure wounds unscrupulously and irritated by the absurdity of a sick hatred. The fertile and harmonious coexistence of the Greeks regardless of religion has not been able to convince their potential, nor, of course, to prevent the atrocities they will follow. Throughout the country, from Macedonia, Thrace, Epirus and Thessaly to Crete, the Epitanisas and the Dodecanese, the Greek Jews and Christians jointly formed a living social, cultural and economic fabric. It is estimated that before the war the Hebrew element went beyond a population of seventy - seven thousand. Their devotion and love for the country led thirteen thousand Greek Jews to fight with heroism in the ranks of the Greek army, when Italians and Germans attacked Greece. And there begins their horror history, a story that despite the persistent efforts, both of our official religious leadership, in prominent forms such as Metropolitan Gennadius, Zakynthos Chrysostomos and of course Archbishop Damascus, but also under the pressure of prominent representatives from cultural, academic and professional organisations was not possible to prevent it. With massive pogroms, displacement, destruction and snatching of property, demolition of cemeteries and vandalism of historical monuments, extortion, humiliation and terrorism, and finally with the climax of an inaccurate atrocity in Poland's concentration camps, the country finally lamented the loss of nearly 90% of its Jewish population. It was an unspeakable tragedy, but also a lesson in humanity, brotherhood, courage, and self-sacrifice. Faith in man and solidarity are never tested in words but in ill times, such as when Greek Christians hid in their homes at the risk of their lives, their Jewish brothers, when they typed secret false identities with falsified evidence to save whole families, when the monasteries opened their doors to accommodate the devastated, when a dish of food - if there was - was enough to feed Christians and Jews together because it was shared with love and compassion. In our national conscience all the children of the mother of Greece are an intricate unity. In these words of the Hierarch I began to speak to you today and these very words were honoured by Greek Jews and Christians in the years of horror, a freak that the head of mind, Adolf Hitler, had been inspired by another great macara and by the statement of his teacher, Kemal Ataturk. Today the history of the Greek witnesses of the Holocaust and the Greek brothers who stood by them is more timely and richer than ever. On the one hand, it reminds us of the material from which we are made as a people in the majority, a string of humanity, faith and solidarity to those in need. This has proved our history and our current attitude to difficult times, such as those of the crisis, refugee and immigration. On the other hand, the example of the Greek Jews and Christians, and in particular the drama of the Holocaust, teaches us and obliges us to continue to fight intolerance and darkness, to honor universal human values, to fight for our national and historical truths, for the truths of the Asia Minor, Pontius and Armenians, our Cypriot brothers, for every name and symbol, who is falsified as much as we remain unfaithful, for the memories and history that have been so distorted to the altar of strange interests. For all this and more it is worth joining and fighting. Because no historical memory, such as today, remains alive if you do not honour it with perseverance, morality and consistency in the future. Their memory is eternity. I invite you to keep a minute's silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Special Standing Committee on the Environment and the Subcommittee on Water Resources of the Special Standing Committee on the Environment present their reports, in accordance with Rule 43a(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of Question Time. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs us that the following topical questions will not be discussed: The third, with number 887/23-1-2018, a top-circuit question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Taking measures in favour of small savers, who lost their money with the debt cut in 2012, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, abroad. The fifth under number 872/22-1-2018, a top-level question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What is the exact balance of the bank account of Law No.128/1975?", in the same way, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister abroad. The second under number 885/23-1-2018, a top-stage question from the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Transport Supply Training Centre as a Neo-collector training centre", will not be discussed, in consultation with the Minister. The second question, under number 886/23-1-2018, of the second question of Attica MEP Mr. Athanasios Bourras to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Special arrangement for the affected students of the High School of Mandras", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou. The question under number 600/23-10-2017 of the circle of petitions by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The establishment of an Environmental Education Centre at the “Antonis Tritsis” Park, will, in the same way, not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr.Gavroglou. The third, with number 880/23-1-2018, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Dodecanese, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Gakis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Measures for the dental treatment of disabled children in the island country", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment - a workload - of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. The fourth question under number 849/16-1-2018, the second question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Surface image presents the General Hospital of Artas", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health. The fifth under number 851/16-1-2018 is a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of staff shortages, building infrastructure and equipment at the Hospital of St. Nicholas Lassithi, it will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health. The sixth question, under number 772/9-1-2018, is the second question of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Pediatric Hospital in Western Thessaloniki", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health. The eighth Question No 708/2-1-2018, dated a second question from the Parliamentary of Attica, New Democracy, George Vlachos, to the Minister of Health, on the application of claw back to all contracted health providers and non-manufacturers, importers, distributors, suppliers of medical devices, will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health. The question under number 453/17-10-2017 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Recommendation of an EKAB station in Naples Boeing of the Municipality of Monemvasia", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health. The seventh question, with number 736/3-1-2018, on the second question by the Member of Parliament, of the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Full the decline of universities”, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The first, with number 879/23-1-2018, topical question for the second cycle of MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gregorios Stoyannidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Following the licensed number of jobs in casinos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tscalotou. Now we will discuss the first question with number 878/23-1-2018, the first question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Xydakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Illegalities in the exploitation of beaches in Mykonos and the rest of Greece". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ms. Minister, the icon on the cosmopolitan islands of Greece, with personal autopsy in Mykonos and in other elements from other parts of the country, is the following. A family of Greeks or any Greek holidaymaker, a family of foreign visitors, go swimming on a beach and most of them, known to be occupied by sunbeds and umbrellas. A four-member family needs, with the most moderate calculations, from EUR 7 for each deck. It can't be for a bathroom to give 25 and 30 and 40 euros. She reasonably, legitimately and compels to go and take her bath somewhere else. So the situation is as follows: Most beaches are occupied by operators who have received the rights to use, but no one knows whether they comply with the conditions of the concession, if they have spread these rough constructions to the extent that the law lays down. No one can control them and no one can protect any holidaymaker wants to enjoy the beach. Both the Constitution and any well-known tourist entrepreneurship are being violated. I would like to know what the Ministry of Finance can do - which has the right to exploit the beaches - to protect Greek citizens and visitors so that they have the right to use the beach. This is not just about legality. It is also a question of well understood healthy and sustainable tourism development.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased, Mr Xydakis, because with your question you raise a very important issue that has already dealt with the entire government, but also the Ministry of Finance, which has the initiative to take measures to protect the sanctuary. As you will be aware, we have already amended the provisions and for the first time we have introduced the electronic auction procedure. For the first time this year, electronic auctions were made for consideration. Agialou and beach spaces are now granted in a transparent way, as it is officially posted at the portal of the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the associated leases of the above spaces, they are also posted on the website "DIAGYIA" under the responsibility of land and municipal services. Also, for the first time, the project "Digital Services of Public Property and National Heritage". And we are willing to consider your proposal, concerning the creation of a framework for notification to the public of the limits of concessiond areas - there is indeed a gap in the legislation so far and it is not published anywhere - so that every citizen knows what the professional has been given and what the circumvention might have done. As we are also willing to examine the physical signs on the ground, which you have put as a proposal in your question, in an effort to improve this system. Given the vulnerable ecosystem of the sanctuary, the beach, the bank and the coastal zone, we have limited the maximum duration for the rental auctions to three years, so if something changes, we can in the next period see it. It is also sufficient time to depreciate the investment by the concessionaire, but it is also dissuasive for additional costs, in particular for constructions which are prohibited by legislation and which have been observed in the past. In view of the above and the need for a single disciplined and efficient management, as well as for the protection of the public spaces of the Aegean Sea, the beach, the bank and the adjacent zone and for better use, a joint ministerial decision was adopted by the Ministers for the Interior, Economic and Environment and Energy, which clearly defines the conditions, conditions and all the details necessary for the simple use of the beach. We have placed particular emphasis on ensuring the free and safe passage of baths, avoiding aesthetic degradation, the preservation of habitats. In addition to the areas under the protection of the Ministries of Culture and the Environment, this is done by local and material competent services, while municipalities are obliged to inform the local and regional authorities directly. In addition, the port and police authorities should immediately inform the General Secretariat of the Public Property. In particular, I will mention an example, because you have also referred to Mykonos. The Building Agency of the Municipality of Mykonos proceeded on 31-10-2017 in drawing up an autopsy exhibition of arbitrary constructions and there the fine was too great for the building, 109,000 euros, and a conservation fine of 18,000 euros. I would like to point out here that for places of particular natural and archaeological interest, absolute protection, relevant conditions have been laid down - as, moreover, you are well aware of as Minister of Culture, which you were the previous period - and the restrictions on the content of the annexes by the joint ministerial decision, which has been adopted. I will submit the documents of the General Secretariat of the Public Property, as well as the joint ministerial decision and in my denture I will say the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u6	What is the number of the joint ministerial decision, Minister, to be recorded in the Minutes so that anyone who wants to find it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u7	The Joint Ministerial Decision of 12 May 2007 under leaf 1636. I am also presenting the answers given by the relevant departments of property, public property and the appropriate ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u9	Madam Minister, thank you very much for the care you have already shown and for the work that the competent authorities are doing. Now to land in reality. The reality is that there is no control mechanism by the state. The sitter's dissatisfied as he wants. I have made you a practical proposal that you accept. I can hear it with great pleasure. I propose that a clear legislative provision should be made for posting a sign with the scaffolding of the licensed area, so that each swimmer knows what the free space is. And this scaffolding with simplicity and using the new technologies is also posted on the municipality's website, neither in DIAGY nor in the General Secretariat of Public Property, but somewhere quite simple. And the sign must also refer to the person responsible's phone number directly. Everyone will not be looking for the Port, which will never come or the Police, which will have a load and appear in October. We are very well aware - we are islands, Greeks - that too many infringements are perceived at the time of the audit mechanism - any control mechanism - takes place after the end of the tourist season. And whatever fines, even when they fall, will be sub-fold, much less than the huge profit, which has been abusively and illegally and to the detriment of both the constitutional right and the national economy. You accept one sentence. This should take place tomorrow morning rather than next year. In February, concessions will begin. In May-April, the tourist season begins. All the arrangements need to be made now. Two essential legislative regulations must also be made. The first is that it should be legally defined which percentage, which part of the beach is to be granted, 20%, 30%, 40%, a reasonable part. The rest is compulsory, and the legislator should make provision for it. Secondly, some of the offences of the infringement, we should think very seriously as legislators and executive authority, are they also self-evident. There should be the fear of the rules, the fear of the Constitution, the fear of the freedom of the coming. Not every businessman can be impatient. I'll give you a very simple example to understand the size. In Mykonos there is one of the wonderful beaches, Agrari. There's no violations. Why? Why a very large, well-known businessman has his home on the beach and has simply made sure that the law is implemented, that the concessionaire has not spread over the whole beach. On all other beaches there is no room for a towel. This is a disgrace for Greek democracy. It's a disgrace to the Greek state. It is a shame for us to legislate and for the entire state mechanism, which controls nothing. I would therefore like to ask you to make these practical proposals that I make, which may be naive, can be inappropriate, if you consider that they can be implemented, implemented in a short time: both the scoring and the immediate information to the citizen. We have applications and everyone has a smartphone and they go to the beach, they can find it. To enable the citizen to claim his right to access the beach. It is also fundamental for tourism. It's not just a right, it's economic development. Secondly, to define which part of the beach is being granted. The whole beach cannot be granted. A place will be granted for both the municipality and the state. Thirdly, you know - and you know it better than I do - how chaotic the entire control mechanism is. For some situations on the beaches there are three and four and five ministries and everyone is irresponsible, everyone is irresponsible and victim is the citizen, the image of the country, life in the country and the tourism itself. I would therefore ask you, even at the level of political commitment, to see how before the season begins, we will have properly legislated. They don't even need complicated legislation. Presidential decrees were made in the past, but no one is applying them. We have the will, we have the problem - it is known -, let us do the thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u10	Minister, since this is very interesting, I would like to say this: I may also be elected in 1st Athens, but I am an islander. There is another issue, which I put a little irregularly, because I am not entitled to do so. Do you know what they're doing? Mr. Xydakis spoke of a particular piece. There is another case that, next to the law, they go and occupy space illegals without even permission, said by Mr Xydakis, and nothing is done at all. I had such a case, I asked questions, Tourism referred me to you, you referred me to the region, and the region never answered. I say this because there are legitimate businessmen who regularly pay, collect the state and beside them and occupy space usually a local who sets up his umbrellas, collect money and pays nothing to the state and no one touches him. Madam Minister, you will have additional time to answer. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u11	That is what you said, Mr President. What I would like to mention here is that in the last decision we have now defined what the percentage of granted beaches is, which one needs to occupy. It's 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u12	But here's the torso!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u13	On a beach, which is granted - not all of the island - 50% can be taken over by umbrella seats and 50% remains free for bathers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u14	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u15	That's in the judiciary. As far as I can hear, it is being circumvented and we have seen that, and indeed from the controls, the fines and everything else. We will take into account the proposals you have made, Mr Xydakis, and the President and the irregularity of some who are not through the tender procedure. As a first measure, which came into force this year, we already have two electronic auctions on this island, in Mykonos. Next year and every year they will be extended. So in this case we won't have the same thing that's happened all these years. It is also the first time that a maximum percentage has been established on the area allocated. In all the islands there are free beaches, there is also the coastline, there are all these, but also the beaches that are granted do not have the right to cover the whole beach. I would also like to say here that our aim is to amend No 2971. There is already a draft prepared by the relevant departments of the Ministry of Finance. Processes have been done with the Ministry of Interior and is currently in the Ministry of the Environment. They're the consensual ministries. In a reasonable time, then, we will bring legislation in order to be able to update this law. It's Law 2971/2001. From 2001 to 2018 there are too many years. It needs to be updated. It's not just the ministerial decisions we make every year. Your proposals will be taken into account. They really are important, and we think we can harmonize them in the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty two students and students and four teachers from the 17th Lamia Municipal School. The House welcomes you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I want to give you an explanation for the empty room. This afternoon we have parliamentary control. In other words, the Members of all the parties are asking the ministers and at the meeting there are the Members who are asking questions and the minister who is answering. I say so that you do not consider this to be the picture of the Hall. Welcome to both Parliament and Athens! We are now moving on to the fourth with number 913/23-1-2018, a top-level question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removing specialities, departments and sectors of the PESA". The Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Dimitrios Baxvanakis. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are focusing today on a risk that threatens the many technical training in our country. We are, of course, talking about the new wave of Mergers of Departments of Education prepared by the Ministry of Education, in the middle of the year and on the occasion of the end of the first quarter, which we had a few days ago, on the 20th of January, on the basis of a ministerial decision by Mr. Friends from June 24th, 2016 and with the Government to distribute this year in all respects that this provision will be fully implemented. We are reminded here that last year because of the reactions that have been made - and rightly so - this circular has been applied in part. According to this ministerial decision, if it has been found that the sum of a student's absences is greater than the number of absenteeisms characterising his course, this student is identified as non-supervisions and is not taken into account, firstly, in the section's numerical data on the awards of courses - theoretical and laboratory - and secondly, in the programming of departments for the next school year, gaps and surpluses of teachers. In other words, it is not enough, Minister, that you have closed down sections and abolished areas and specialities on the pretext and the tool of the few sections and transferred organic educational posts, but now you are also preparing a new slap for the PES in the middle of the year. Regional training addresses have already been launched through secondary education addresses to ask the PSALs to proceed, on their own responsibility and in accordance with the above Ministerial Decision, with pools of departments and with the removal of the second teacher from the respective workshops. We are not asking you, Minister, to call on you now to withdraw this Ministerial Decision 'Carmania' and not to close a single section, not one sector, nor one speciality for professional high school! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u18	Mr Baxvanakis, State Secretary for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u19	Mr Delis, it is impressive that after a year you repeat the same dangers that have been heard and last year by you and others and said what you said today that parts will be abolished or merged into vocational schools because of this provision, that students will be expelled from their schools and that, as you say in your question, teachers will be displaced from their school. And the one you found! This provision was in force last year and you said the same. So our teachers, students and all the educational community know that none of the ESDPs were merged or abolished. No student was expelled from his school, but the application of the provision was made only for the reason why he was referring to the ministerial decision, that is to say to have a good picture of the pupils and students who really follow the order, so that programming can be made in good time for the next school year. Also if the number of students who are really attending the department is well below those who have been signed and therefore well below the limits which justify the presence of a second teacher in laboratories, this teacher can be made available to cover other needs, which, as you well know, are often presented during the year either on the grounds of permits or for other reasons, and this has happened last year. So what happened last year? What we claimed was what happened in practice, that was the truth, while the danger you were saying proved to be a risk. It didn't happen. As was not the case last year, i.e. no department was merged, no department was abolished, no student was expelled from his school, exactly the same thing is not going to happen this year. So it is good, because you represent a political party and not a group consisting of prophets of future evils, to discuss here in political terms, to say your positions and proposals on technical vocational training, because let me tell you that riskology can be said once, to say twice, on the third time no one will believe you anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. First - first - for the risk of closing parts, specialities and sectors of the ESDP, is it or is it not true that the few sections have been blocked all over Greece? Only in Piraeus closed thirteen sections. Is it true or lies, Minister? It's true and you know it. And in Thessaloniki there are many more, as in all of Greece. Perhaps you didn't reach the number you wanted, because you met many reactions from students and teachers. However, sections and specialties were closed. In relation to this matter, if you have noticed my wording, I told you that Mr Philly's ministerial decision last year was implemented in part. And it was applied in part, precisely because there were reactions. That is what we see now. You are trying to get involved, but in no case do you implement our own request, which is also the request of teachers and pupils, to abolish this ministerial decision. What does that mean? It means very simply, Minister, that you turn on the green light to any PSAF which now leads to a reduction in the number of students due to absences to collapsing sections and to remove any second teacher from the respective workshops. And that's what happened last year. Second teachers were removed from the workshops. This, of course, is what you know, too, that it means reforming the school programme, changes in teachers in many courses. You also have schools themselves, based on the circular sent by the Regional Directorate of Attica, to name the surpluses of teachers and all this, and I repeat, in the middle of the year. Furthermore, this anti-educational - not only in our opinion - is objective, I think, to see - regulation of mergers and abolitions of divisions and sectors means fatal redistribution, even the expulsion of pupils - now is not the words, expulsion of pupils from the schools that are studying - that is, we will have the repetition of what many students have experienced at the beginning of this year by closing down several small-scale departments. At the same time, the sections that remain will grow, and that means deterioration even more of the quality of the education provided, while teachers will also experience a new wave of deportations, removals - we will not now stick to the words - and moves in any case from school to school in order to cover their hours, since no appointments to education have been made for several years and this does not seem to be the case on the horizon. It is therefore clear, Minister, that its policy of saving resources at all costs - because this position is served by this ministerial decision and has been pursued - is at the expense of the education of students. You know, the Ministry of Education - and I am glad to hear the third memorandum which, in addition to anti-grassroots, provides for structural changes in technical vocational education and, above all, provides for the generalization and extension of apprenticeship, which is paid to 75% of the underpaid wage, this worthwhile wage. That is, those under 25 are taking EUR 511 - not even EUR 586 - and apprenticeship is paid at 75% of EUR 511. The aim is, admittedly, technical vocational education to link and serve more effectively the needs of development, you say, of capital, through a "soft" of on-line training. We want to say here, by the way, in relation to the educational content of the ESDP, that general education courses are downgraded, despite some increases in hours. We want to inform those who are listening to us that these lessons are not taught by the same detailed programme and by the same school manuals that teach courses in general. One more comment we have taken from the figures of your Ministry: one would expect, although the graduates of these educational structures of technical vocational education in Greece are only 31% of the apprenticeship capacity, while in the European Union they are 48%, to be absorbed more easily than the labour market. However, seeing the employment rates published seems to be only 37.5% in Greece, while the European Union average reaches 73%. It is therefore clear that the problem of unemployment, of course, is not about qualifications or about the orientation of studies. We also want to say - and it is worth saying this, Mr President - that the school drain in technical education is ten times the school leak in general. For us, the JRC, Minister, students in technical training are not children of a lower god. They have all the rights to education and to stable work. They will, of course, have to fight for it and in their struggle, they will find our party and the class trade union movement next to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u22	You have the floor, with the relative comfort of time, Minister, if you need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Delis, I see you insist on an insurmountable risk, and on an effort to terrorize both our teachers and the educational community - students, students and their parents. So we can assure you that, as you have been disproved last year for your predictions and prophecies, the same will happen this year. For your general remarks about the oligoberal departments operating in the ESDP this year, I say that we have approved either ministerial decisions or decisions by regional training directors and already operate a thousand four hundred sixty oligoparts in the PESALs. This means that 27% of the current ESDP segments are limited. Well, you don't call it a downgrading of vocational education. Moreover, despite the dangers, this year's number of students in the ESDP is by a thousand over three hundred students last year. You don't even call this the expulsion of students from schools. Also, no department was abolished and no student was forced to leave his school. You said, therefore, that you are defending polypathic technical training. Let's see, five days ago, what the press organ of your party wrote. It admits, therefore, that there is a widening of vocational education. In his honor, he admits it. However, it says that it has been done undergraduately, without workshops, without books - we are not in the era of Mrs Diamantopoulou, we have moved a little - and without qualified educational staff - that is what it is you should go to tell our teachers at the PES. It also says that there is no discipline, there is no rigour by teachers, that we have many phenomena of violation in the PSAs, even of use and trafficking of drugs. This is what the "RIZOPASTI" says about vocational schools, which you otherwise defend. So what did we do in vocational training? We brought the two and a half thousand teachers back to work, which the Samara-Venizelou government had made available in 2013. We refunctioned all the areas and specialities that the same cohabitation in 2013 abolished, with the result that over twenty thousand students and, above all, students are forced either to change expertise or to address private education structures. Finally, we prevented early training from the age of 15, as planned by the previous government. What did we do, too? We set up a new structure in professional high school, with a view to avoiding early specialisation. We seek to improve the quality of studies and implement, in cooperation with the Institute for Educational Policy, the reform of curricula and books for all teaching objects of the PES. We have widened the possibilities of graduates for access to higher education. Already last year we legislated, and in August many PSA graduates were introduced to universities for the first time. This figure last year was 1%. With a bill, which we will be tabling in the next few days in Parliament, this is 5%. 5% of posts, i.e. in our universities, in all universities this year will be covered by PES graduates. You don't even call that a downgrading of vocational education. Finally, we introduced the post-training year, the apprenticeship class, which was very slandered by you and others. I don't have to defend her. Our own students, the graduates and graduates of the PESA, who are massively involved in the curriculum of apprenticeships, as well as the broad acceptance of the programme from our teachers, in their efforts to ensure the largest apprenticeship positions in the local market. Already last year, about a thousand of our graduates participated in the post-election year, while this year, in October, our graduates participating in the program are more than three thousand. This shows the acceptance of the program by our teachers and students. If there is still any doubt about this, I challenge you at any time, at any time, in any professional high school in the country, to discuss in front of students and teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I know that it is not foreseen, but I want to make a brief announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Delis, make an announcement, not the Minister should answer. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much. Everything that was said by the Minister, concerning the publication of "RIZOSOPASTI" for the pathogens of technical vocational education, is confirmed by the strategy report of your Ministry, Minister, which is published on the Ministry's site. The Ministry itself confirms everything that "RIZOPASITIS" wrote a few days ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u27	Minister, for reasons of equal treatment, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u28	No, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u29	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 27 November 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u30	The minutes of Monday 27 November 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-29-S1-commons.u31	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.03 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 31 January 2018, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
