ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I wish all of us a good year. Have health. Thank you to all my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, to all the employees in this House, to the children from EL.AS who are taking care of us. Have health and good work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle of the law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Amendment of Article 5 of Law 1920/1991 (A 11), which ratified the Act of Legislative Content of the Muslim Religious Operations Act (A 182)'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meetings on 21 December 2017 and on 8 January 2018 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. We have asked the Secretariat of the Government and he told us that the government does not intend to bring any ministerial amendments. We therefore remain in the three amendments tabled and which, when the time comes, the Minister will say whether or not he accepts them. The three amendments are the main Kremastinos, Venizelos and Carras. Secondly, ten colleagues spoke to the committee. If that happens - which is usually the case, the number of speakers is doubled in plenary - I think we will be able to close the sitting, with a relatively comfortable time at around 18.00 a.m. However, do not 'tie it'. To be registered as colleagues until the moment Mr Andrianos comes down from the Step and then we see and make our programming. The fact that there are no amendments gives us the right to approach the end of today's sitting. I think there is no objection to the procedure I have said. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. I therefore call on the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Emmanuelides, to take the step. Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Have a good year, with health to all, strength and good enlightenment. Ladies and gentlemen, legal certainty is one of the main features, which should be characterised by any organised and operational legal order. Conversely, legal insecurity and uncertainty can affect trade and harm citizens' sense of law. Multilaterality, loopholes in law and vague legislation are some of the factors contributing to this phenomenon. In the Greek legal order in Thrace, a field in which the security of law, relating to property rights and equality, seems to be affected, is the application of religious law to our Muslim fellow citizens. Today we are discussing the amendment of Article 5 of Law 1920/1991, which concerns a portion of our citizens, to whom the Greek state has not beenhaved over time in the best possible way. The mandatory subjection of the Muslims of Thrace to the sacred law of Islam, in specific cases, while it seems to defend religious freedoms, has deprived our fellow citizens of their place in our Civil Code. Already in recent decades a significant dialogue has started on whether the existing legal regime is compatible with modern international law and human rights. So today, the Ministry introduces this draft law, which abolishes the mandatory application of the Sharia, Islamic law, which applies to the family and hereditary affairs of members of the Muslim minority in Thrace. In this way, a reform has been introduced, which has characterised one of the most important positive developments in the field of minority human rights over the last few decades. After all, it was welcomed by both the bodies invited to our committee meeting and by most political parties. It is true that the Greek state has a long tradition of respect for religious superiority and the respective communities, by a recommendation from the Greek state. In particular, with the annexation of new territories to the second half of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th, such as Thessaly and the new countries and Crete, laws and rules were adopted, aimed at the smooth coexistence of different religious communities. In Thrace, from 1920 onwards, the provisions of Law 2345 and more than Law 1920/1991 apply, under which Muslim law may apply to a specific range of cases. This institutional respect for religious integrity has, of course, not been achieved without political purposes, and without being excluded. From very early and especially after World War II and the development of the international human rights regime and their respective protection mechanisms, a reflection has been made on the compatibility of the applicable sacred provisions with international standards. Especially since the 1990s and since then, with the development of the European acquis and the adoption of specific human rights rules, the mandatory implementation of the Muslim law in Thrace on hereditary and family affairs has caused several reactions, both by human rights organisations and the Left. Even if it is an version of Islamic law adapted to local and historical data in the region, which is not as extreme as those in many Muslim countries, serious issues were noted, particularly with regard to the position of the woman and the interests of the child in the event of a marriage being resolved. The mandatory application of a local version of the sacred Islamic law in matters of family and hereditary law - such as divorces, issues of child-care and child-care, wills and others - to the members of the minority, without the choice of resolving these issues from the urban courts in the country, creates, as it is clear, major issues. In other words, our country has the regrettable privilege in terms of fundamental rights to be the only one in Europe, which applies sacred law to a portion of its citizens. The proposed draft law therefore makes it definitively clear that for the family and hereditary differences between members of the Muslim minority in Thrace, as defined in paragraph 2 of Article 5 of Law No 1920 of 1991, the common provisions of the Civil Code apply, and only exceptionally and after the express desire of both parties may fall under the jurisdiction of the motto. It is therefore abrogated that the members of the minority are automatically subject to sacred Muslim law, which prevailed, even when there was an opposing will, such as in the case recently discussed in the European Court of Human Rights against Greece and for which the condemnation of our country is possible. This proposed regulation does not bring any change in the responsibilities of the mosquito, which are not limited but continue unchanged. Nor shall the competence of the political courts of the country be altered to exercise constitutional control over any decision taken by the mufit and to declare their enforceability. The change lies only in the choice which the parties are now able to make for their case to the relevant mufit or to the civil courts. Submission of the case to the jurisdiction of the mufit, with a statement of all the parties involved, is irrevocable and excludes the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts in this dispute for good reason. In particular for the inherited relationships of minority members, the application of the proposed provisions means that, as a general rule, the Civil Code applies, unless the holder draws before a notary of his last will, according to the type of public covenant, where he expressly wishes to subject his succession to sacred Muslim law. This option does not bind the holder irrevocably and may, at a later date, withdraw the declaration and be subject to the Common Law and the Provisions of the Civil Code. However, it is not possible to implement the Civil Code and the sacred Muslim law at the same time, as this would constitute a distortion of both legal systems. Finally, in case (b) of the first article in the draft law, it is foreseen that a presidential decree will be followed, following a proposal by the Ministers for Education and Justice, concerning the definition of all the procedural rules necessary to discuss a case before the motto, in order to adopt its decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, why did we have to get to 2018 and to our Government in order to table a legislative initiative, which is considered not only reasonable but also necessary? Why have we refused for decades to our Thracian minority fellow citizens to appeal to the Civil Code, to which all Greek citizens are subject, and have forced them to be permanently under a religious legal regime? I think we need to recognise that the mandatory implementation of the Sharia in Thrace, up to now, has had clear causes, which are not only linked to the respectable commitment of a large part of the Thrace Muslims to their religious beliefs and religious traditions, but have mainly to do with undiminished political purposes of the past, which isolated our minority citizens and forced them to have no choice but to resolve their family and hereditary affairs, rather than just the sacred law of Islam, even without their desire. For these reasons, the Ministry of Education initiative is particularly important because it creates a beneficial cut in relation to an anachronistic regime. Ladies and gentlemen, the question arises from a number of well-meaning questions: why does the mute not be completely abolished? It is true that the complete abolition would be an option. But he needs attention and thought, for the following reasons: The total and sudden ban on the practice of centuries and abruptly a hundred and eighty degrees turn, when for almost a century the Greek state imposed the compulsory and religious resolution of disputes, it would be at least vague and could bring the opposite effects to the intended results. So what is being introduced is an important step so that in the immediate future full rationalisation can proceed without vibration. Furthermore, the introduction of the option, in the case of citizens, who have been local and have lived in these regions for centuries, such as the Thraceful Muslims, is an indication of a pluralist society that treats its members equally. At times when demands are made in the public area, not only for recognition but also for the protection of different identities, are being made at the same time that Islamics are seeking to expel Islam from the West, and they are deliberately identifiable with terrorism, a progressive demand can also be the development of pluralist coexistence institutions. In other words, accepting and recognising diversity is also progressive in particular in areas with a long history of local Muslims. I refer here to recent reports in the international press that supporters of Trump in America, in an Islamophobia climate, are trying to ban the extradition of decisions by the courts of the United States, which are already taking into account the sacred Islamic law when adopting decisions concerning Muslim citizens. Let us not forget, moreover, that the countries that are trying to adapt to the requests for recognition and protection of religious identities of an increasing number of their citizens are also growing in Europe and are always looking for ways that are compatible with human rights to incorporate different customs, customs and practices of their members into practice. On the other hand, where even certain religious clothing and symbols are banned, social tensions and conflicts have been created. For these reasons, it is clear that the optionality that the Minister introduces to the ability of the parties to appeal to their local, religious leader, after agreement between both parties, instead of a total ban on such a possibility, is at this point the most suitable solution. The introduction of a choice takes into account an existing social dynamic, since, in practice, the local Muslims have found ways of appealing to civil courts for their hereditary and family affairs. Let us not forget that the Greek courts have the obligation to exercise constitutional control over every decision of the local mosquito, so that they have the ultimate reason to safeguard constitutionally guaranteed rights. In conclusion, I would like to point out that functionality and ultimately, the effectiveness of legislation is judged by whether and whether they treat chronic diseases which are afflicting various social groups. The draft law, based on the principle of optionality, ensures progress and democratisation of society and creates conditions free of all kinds of coercion. It is, moreover, particularly good that it seems to be a broad political consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u4	I would like to inform colleagues that the plenary session will be delivered and used on Friday. The establishment of the electronic vote will be completed, but it will not be ready, because the tests will not have been carried out to be used for the vote. So the prerequisites will begin in plenary. Since there is a roll-call vote on Monday, it will take place in the classic way. And from next week we will have been fully modernized, in something that had started on Vangelis Meimarakis, completed on Nikos Voutsi and recorded on the assets of today's president. The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Andrianos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to wish many years of health, good year to all of us, to all our fellow citizens, to the entire Greek people. So we are discussing today a bill, which deals with an internal legal order, the regulation of how to resolve certain family differences between Greek citizens - members of the Muslim minority in Thrace, as laid down in Article 5(2) of Law 1920/1991. I begin with this observation and pointing out on the matter of an internal legal act, because some unfortunate administrations of the government lately could give the wrong impression of the contrary. The first unfortunate treatment is the time, chosen for the introduction of the bill to be discussed, that is to say shortly after the visit of the President of the Republic of Greece to Greece and his statements on the Treaty of Lausanne, which, of course, received the appropriate response from the President of the Hellenic Republic. It is clear to every Greek citizen that it was not the government's preparation that was required that this visit would produce the expected positive results for our country, which is causing great concern. In any case, if anything, such time-consuming coincidences should be ensured in practice and effectively that they create no doubts, no grounds and no grounds for suspecting that the Hellenic Republic needs or tolerates interference on issues relating to constitutional freedoms, which Greek citizens enjoy on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u6	Erdogan's the other way around...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u7	The second mismanagement is the Minister of Education's choice to open up the question of the election of mufts on television one day later, since he had stressed the need for us to move on this sensitive subject with due attention. We, the New Democracy, responded positively and moved, as always seriously and responsibly. That is why there is concern and concern about the fact that the government chooses to open up such issues in the media instead of Parliament, with a lack of respect for Parliament. And, unfortunately, we see that this attitude which prioritises communication towards substance is the rule and not the exception. For example, you are going out every day and you are announcing the abolition of the introductory examinations, without being ready and ready to say clearly what exactly a system will be in place. And I wouldn't say that, but I take the occasion of the recent interview with the President of the EPP, who appreciated that it takes about a decade to abolish introductorys. So since you're not ready, we invite you to abandon this tactic, which gives you no political benefit. Children who are preparing for the examinations and their families need an environment of safety and certainty and with such tactics that create confusion - and after interviewing the President of the EPP - you certainly do not offer it to them. The third mismanagement has to do with what is happening with the asylum application by the eight Turkish officers. Instead of responding to a protest, instead of reacting against Turkey's totally unacceptable intervention in internal asylum procedures, the government has made a request for cancellation, and in fact, a decision of the Ice Bay has been taken, which rejects Turkey's request for extradition. So at the time that the neighbouring country, in the context of its well-known challenge, is clearly seeking to create an image of intervention on our internal issues, we must all be double and threefold careful, especially when - I stress again - we are dealing with issues which are clearly and exclusively about the Greek legal order. So we are discussing today a draft law aimed at improving the rules of equality between Greek citizens. What happened to this day? Based on the case-law of the Ice Bay, the optionality that existed had been removed, as regards the jurisdiction of the muft in cases of family and hereditary differences between members of the Greek Muslim minority in Thrace. An issue was thus created, which in recent years some practical bypasses have been found, such as the political marriage between Greek Muslims, and the resolution of the vast majority, especially of hereditary issues, on the basis of the Civil Code with common consent. This does not mean, however, that there had been little or nothing but substantial problems, such as that of the relevant appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, where Greece is accused and pending. In any case, the small number of recorded cases - let this word be highlighted - problematic cases do not remove the obligation of the favoured and democratic Greek state to protect effectively, essentially and in an absolute way, every Greek citizen in the legal framework of the country. It is not possible, for example, to take into account the last wish of the perpetrator for the disposal of his property. The draft law, therefore, which we are debating today, stipulates that for the family and hereditary differences referred to in Article 5(2) of Law 1920/91 the common provisions of the Civil Code apply only in exceptional cases, and since all parties to the proceedings state in writing and in the presence of a lawyer that they wish to do so, these cases are subject to the jurisdiction of the moufet, who continues to have competences of a religious minister and a priesthood. Those powers continue to be provided for in the existing provisions and thus do not alter the competence of the political courts for the purpose of reviewing judgments and declaring their applicability. In this way, the current rules are improved, as it is clearly laid down that the Greek courts generally have jurisdiction and subject to the system of the lawfulness of the Muslim law is absolutely optional. And it is important that this position is also confirmed by the representatives of the bodies, which we have heard during the debate of the bill in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, as well as by the statements made. It is good that this regulation agrees with the representatives of the actors of the citizens of Thrace, Muslims and Christians, religious workers and religiousists, as well as distinguished lawyers. Let me individually applaud the positive contribution of the three Metropolitans of Thrace, with their sheriff-in-law, which they expressed through their joint letter. I also think it is good that, in discussing the draft law in committee, we have taken into account and accepted our two proposals, which we invite you, Minister, until the end of the meeting to include in the text of the law in the most appropriate way: Firstly, setting up a committee for the definition of procedural rules for the discussion of these cases by the mufit and for the adoption of its decisions on matters relating to the organisation and operation of the relevant service and the maintenance of a record, the representation of the proxy lawyers and, in general, all the details necessary for the application of the provisions laid down. Secondly, the addition of explicit reference to the text of the law of Article 4(2) of the Constitution, which stipulates that Greeks and Greek women have equal rights and obligations in order to highlight the supreme need to comply with the Greek Constitution, which dictates equality and equality between the sexes. I would also stress the need, in which we also agreed at the committee meeting, that provision should be made for self-control of constitutionality at the stage of the process. I would also like to point out the good point made by the Parliamentary Scientific Service that, in the first paragraph, the competence of the mushroom in cases commonly agreed before him is maintained, without specifying how to determine the existence of a common consensus. So, and this you should see, so that the law adequately protects the weak parties against coercion or even violence. As I pointed out at the meetings of the committee responsible, it is absolutely essential that a liberal European democracy, such as Greek, should respect and protect effectively and effectively, both individual and collective rights, subject to the latter, in cases where conflict occurs. Respect for the religious conscience and the cultural identity of Greek citizens, since the principles and values of this identity are compatible with our legal culture, are given and absolute. After all, I would like to stress here that the New Democracy's party is firmly leading in the consolidation of parity, with key institutional reforms, both in general and in order to safeguard the constitutional rights of the Greek Muslims of Thrace. We are firmly committed to the fundamental principles of equality between European law and the acquis, freedom of religion and gender equality. In this direction is the pioneering for the age of 1920/1991 of the then government of the New Democracy and the late Constantine Mitsotakis, who, in fact, was voted, as I said in committee, in difficult circumstances. I would like to stress this, with every emphasis, and I would like to point out this, because in the question: what has been done by the New Democracy on this issue, which was raised by colleagues at the meeting of the Committee on Educational Affairs, but also by Mr SYRIZA's rapporteur, we are answering that, as far as L.1920/1991 is concerned, we are actually improving a single point of the bill, which, in fact, is not a provision of the law itself, but a later development because of the case law of the Ice Bay. So the New Democracy has proved its national responsibility and commitment to individual freedoms and rights since its establishment. In this context, therefore, and with the points I made and waiting until the end of the meeting for them to be accepted, as I believe that they improve the text of the bill, we are voting in favour of this bill, because we believe that it improves even more gender equality and resolves the few, but strong, tensions between individual and collective rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u8	And I, Mr. Andriane, because you gave us three minutes of your time. The speeches of the special speakers begin, with Mr Constantopoulos Demetrios, the first colleague from the Democratic Association. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u9	First, I wish in my turn good year, health and power to all. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the amendment of Article 5 of Law 1920/1991 raises a simple question: why does Greece, with a long tradition of institutions of equality, grant such a substantial privilege to its Muslim minority? Its position is now, however, invoked by the European Courts. So what's the answer? The answer, ladies and gentlemen, lies in 1913, when the Greek state was found with a Muslim minority, which reached 10% of its population, when in the regions of the new countries Muslims were a local majority. Eleftherios Venizelos, however, who understood the situation very well, updated King Velestinli's vision of a state without any distinction of religion, because all the creatures of God are the children of Prototype. He upgraded the post of the muft, conferring jurisdiction. By Article 4 of Law 147/1914, it granted the right to Muslims and Jews to maintain this sacred law on marriages, divorces and personal law in general. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that Islam is a religion which places great emphasis on orthorism. Ladies and gentlemen, this transition from the Ottoman coup d'état to the national judiciary had to be done with respect for the rules, first of all, of a religious nature, which concerned the personal and civil situation of the new populations. After them, for the Muslim communities and the organization of religious life, some had to answer. The catalytic role of World War I led to new data, ahead of the signing of the Treaty of Serbs on 28/7/1920. The Greek state adopted Mr von Wogau's report. On 23 December 1920, the President of the Republic of Mozambique, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Mozambique, and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Mozambique, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Mozambique and the Minister of the Republic of Mozambique and the Minister of the Republic of Mozambique, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Mozambique, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Mozambique and the Minister of the Republic of Mozambique, the In fact, since 1920, national rules of domestic law of Law 2345/1920 have been in force in Thrace since 1991. They are laws that permit the implementation of the sacred Muslim law under strict, subjective and objective application range. These provisions are compatible with the international obligations undertaken by Greece with the Treaty of Losan. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember what Sharia is. Sharia, therefore, means a path for Muslims. It is the path they must follow according to their religion. It is not a written text, of course, but it comes from a combination of many texts, such as the Holy Koran, hadith, sunah, etc., in their interpretation. However, it covers all aspects of the life of a Muslim and is the basis of the jurisprudence of many Muslim countries. It is clear, therefore, that sharia cannot be the basis of the jurisprudence of a modern European state. But the issue arises, especially in the case of the country, if it is compatible and how to maintain the sharia for family and hereditary issues. So let's see what happens in Thrace today. The Treaty of Lausanne is not expressly mentioned in the sharia, and therefore there is no obligation of the country to impose the obligation on members of the Muslim minority in Thrace. However, according to Law 1920/1991 for the Muslim minority in Thrace, precisely because it is a Muslim, or a religious minority, a part of the sharia is applicable to issues of family and hereditary law. However, the consistent case law of the Ice Bay has made the sharia compulsory for the Muslims of Thrace. So what about this requirement? On this basis Greece is currently accused of being indicted to the European Court of Human Rights. On 06-12-2017 the relevant trial was conducted on the case ‘Hattze Molla Sallis’. And it is obvious that the government has run to prevent this deadline. I would stress that it should be moved much earlier, since it has known for two years what is going to happen and what reasons. Following the introduction of the political marriage from PASOK, minority Muslims do not wish to enter the Sharia, they are making political marriage. So in practice the Muslims themselves found a way to make their choice between the Sharia and the civil code. The way they found in the case of inheritances, those who wish to overcome the flesh, is by drawing up contracts and wills. It is necessary, therefore, that none of the parties concerned should appeal against them. Today, 99% of the inheritances in Thrace are treated in this way. For these reasons, when Andreas Loverdes Minister for Education, had started a very serious debate and an effort to change the legal framework and keep the law in line with life. However, the government has changed and the effort has not been completed. What does Mr Gavroglou's present arrangement say? This regulation says that the first and most important option is that the arrangement does not abolish the sharia. And here we all agree. In this way religious Muslims in Thrace do not deny a right that is very important to themselves. They know, however, that even though Turkey has abolished it for their fellow religions, they keep it in Greece. Secondly, in a sensitive period, we are sending out a clear message to the Muslim countries and, in particular, to Arab countries, that Greece respects Islam. Thirdly, Turkey is avoiding any possibility of using this regulation to raise issues about the Lausanne Treaty. Fourthly, the pursuits of extremist Turkish nationalist circles to turn mufts and mufties into reformist and propaganda centres against our country are pawned. That will be the development if we move forward in meeting the request for the election of mute by Muslim voters. The second option of the Government is that the arrangement recognises a presumption of jurisdiction in the courts. In other words, if the parties disagree on where their case is to be brought, they will be subject to the courts. One could say here that the presumption of competence should be considered to belong to the mushroom. That is what religious Muslims are asking for. However, since subjecting to the sharia is a right, that is, an exception to the generally applicable presumption of competence cannot be recognised. These two options are right. There are, however, the following issues - I would say - topics. First, Mr Minister, the words 'joint consent' should be deleted in the second paragraph of the first Article. I have said so in the debate on the articles. It must be clear what it means and how it turns out, Mrs Anagnostopoulou - because you had asked it the other time - the common consensus. Secondly, it is a good choice to link the application of optionality to the adoption of the Presidential Decree on procedural procedures to be followed by the moors. It is important, Minister, that the mandate for the adoption of the President-in-Office's decree be very careful. In accordance with the procedure for drawing up the Presidential Decree, the sensitivities of religious Muslims must be taken into account. In other words, the state must not legislate without having heard them. Their representatives came and we heard them and I believe that their positions are respected. And on the basis of these, we will legislate. Ladies and gentlemen, the Muslim marriage records an agreement, a victory. There is provision for a woman’s allowance in the event of divorce, the mehir. So the government here must ensure that the new legislative framework is not used to avoid the divorced husband, the payment of compensation to the wife. It is clear then that the new legislation will work to the detriment of women and that must be brought to bear. The regulation makes it very difficult for a Muslim to choose the disposal of his property according to the Sharia after his death. In towns it is very easy, the notary will be found, but in villages it is difficult and there we do not know what can be done. It would therefore also be useful for reasons of fundamental importance, but also for the international image of our country, to add to paragraph 3 of Article 5, 'in response to the Constitution', Mr Gavroglou, and to a phrase which includes conditions such as the European Convention on Human Rights, so that it is clear that they must respect the decisions of the mute. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the amendment of Article 5 of Law 1920/1991 is another step towards identifying minority rights. It comes, of course, with the delay of adding to a series of large sections and initiatives launched in the 1980s by the great visionary, Andreas Papandreou. The policies on the rights of minorities, Muslim studies and education in general among the Muslims of Thrace and their representation in the institutions of democracy are initiatives that were institutionalised by the PASOK governments, initiatives that took advantage of the assessment of the past, were in line with the requirements of the present and identified the needs of the future. Another leader, Andreas Papandreou, was very ahead of his time especially for human rights issues and respect for religion. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on the functioning of the Islamic mosque in Athens and the debate on this draft law is another, I would say, a step of democracy, it is a start and a substantial change in the context of minority issues, issues of Thrace, such as the operation of clubs, vacants, schools, etc. We are prepared to contribute in this direction. Besides, we're voting on the draft law. The Muslims of Thrace do not forget that this is an integral part of the Greek state and for us that is unnegotiable. Minister, we have tabled an amendment, specifically concerning the jurisdiction of the mosquito, where it becomes optional and requires a request from both parties. The regulation shall be in line with Articles 8, 20 and 94 of the Constitution. The proposed amendment provides that the one-sided court of first instance investigates compliance with the limits of jurisdiction of the mufit and declares its decisions enforceable. We propose and we would like you to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u10	From what I understood at first, do you vote, Mr. Constantopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u11	In principle, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Heliopoulou has a party meeting and will be here later. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill establishes as a rule the application of the provisions of the Civil Code and of the regular courts in the family and hereditary affairs of the Muslim minority. The application of Islamic law and as a consequence of the jurisdiction of the mouft shall remain on a voluntary basis, subject to the assent of all parties or parties to the dispute. Everyone understands, of course, that this is not a simple, narrow legal issue. Both the social and political dimensions of this issue are obvious and therefore its complexity is given. By the way, we want to recall the well-established and crystalline position of the JRC for the complete distinction of religion, any religion, from state service, and that, of course, means the complete separation of the church and any religious doctrine from the state. After all, it is a completely different thing, the religious conscience of people, which is a form of social consciousness, and completely different thing, religious law and its application today through its symphony with any state functions. For us, for the JRC, people cannot distinguish themselves either from their sex, from their skin color, from their ethnic origin, or from their religious beliefs. Primary, decisive social discrimination, particularly in an exploitation society, such as the capitalist society in which we live, is only made on the basis of the class criterion, and that defines and distinguishes the few exploiters of the bourgeoisie by the many exploiters of the working class. On the basis of all the above, and despite the fact that today's regulation introduced by the bill is incomplete, as we do, despite the fact that it is of a fragmentary nature and does not lead to the complete disconnection of religious law from politics, despite the fact that - and we have pointed this out from the outset and at the previous meetings of the committee - the formation of the rules of jurisdiction before the mouft for those who follow Islamic law to resolve their cases is referred to a presidential decree and therefore all discussions around it are excluded, in any case we want to state that it would not fit our party to oppose a regulation that makes a small, even a step in the necessary separation of religious from state power, defining as a rule political law and making it optional, as we have said, the application of religious law in this case of Islamic law, such as the one introduced by the current draft law. After all, we must point out here that the regulation currently being adopted is in operation and is already being implemented in practice by an important part of the Muslim minority, which is growing and is becoming increasingly involved in the provisions of the Civil Code and in the ordinary courts for its family and hereditary affairs, marriages, divorces, etc. and not the mufts and the Islamic law, the Sharia. In this sense, therefore, this regulation has already matured for good to accept the Muslim minority. However, we must not forget one more thing: there is no legal regulation at all and, let alone, such regulations relating to the minority, which, of course, also requires the necessary and appropriate socio-political conditions. Of course, it is already supported by several lawyers that the application of the Civil Code and the ordinary courts should be exclusive and should in any event be abolished, in any event, the application of Islamic law and the relevant competence of the muft, which is, in general, correct. After all, we add, the same would be appropriate for the Christian church to be completely separated from the state. For example, the conclusion of the political marriage should have a unique legal effect. This, yes, indeed, is a radical modernisation, mature and necessary, but in which no bourgeois government, nor the current one, dares to go, as does the necessary urban modernisation of the separation of the church from the state rather than from the occasional lionisations of various ministers for communication purposes. In closing, it would be good if the government's majority in its triumphs were to retain a measure of this kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u14	I too, Mr Delis, for your very brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u15	And essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u16	And essential. We proceed with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to wish many years of heart, good year with health, peace and preparation. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under way at this first plenary session of the Greek Parliament for this year opens up a new cycle of structural reforms promoted by the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The Greek Government declares itself determined to get rid of the burdens of the past and the specific issue of Muslim religious officials for whom this amendment is proposed has precisely this objective. And I will explain to you why, by moving on to a pool of convincingly developed opinions during the discussions in the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs and which I am in agreement with. A state of exception has been maintained in Thrace for decades. The Greek Muslims have never actually been equal to the rest of the Greek citizens. The religious Islamic code regulating the relationship between family and hereditary law of Muslim Greek citizens discriminates against women and minors in violation of the Constitution and International Law. Marriage, for example, by representatives, let alone the marriage between minors are typical examples. These must now be changed. Saria, the Islamic religious code of living, namely, in which Muslim Greeks have an obligation to resort to the mosquito, is not applied anywhere else in Europe. Islamic arbitrators established in Britain, dealing mainly with the out-of-court settlement of trade disputes, but also the Sharia councils that have primary responsibility for advising on religious issues and Islamian divorce certificates, have been accused of issuing decisions that increase discrimination against women and violate European law. No provision of the Treaty of Lausanne explicitly requires the implementation of the sacred law or the functioning of the courts for the members of the minority. They have already indicated this with relevant resolutions. And when I say minority, I mean religious minority. The Plenary Assembly of Greek Bar Associations, the National Committee for Human Rights, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe and the UN Commission for the Elimination of Discrimination against Women is understandable that for Muslim and Sharia it is a guide of an orthodox in its everyday life. It is not a specific text, but a set of thousands of texts that try to interpret the sacred frame. And interpretation is the responsibility of Islam's law-abiding, so many law-abiding, so much knowledge. The mosquito in question interprets and implements, according to his judgement, the rules of the sharia, so that there is no law and no legal certainty. In fact, at a time when many of the regulations - the provisions of the Muslim law are based on traditions and customs and are not recorded in a text - it is difficult, if not impossible, to exercise effective judicial control of them, with the consequence that fundamental human rights are not protected. In the last century Greece has handled the religious themes of the Thrace Muslims with respect to the principles and traditions of those who embrace Islam. Religious freedom, religious conscience and the exercise of worship, moreover, are shielded by the basic principles of our Constitution. Article 4 of the Constitution, which guarantees the equality of Greeks, stipulates that Greeks are equal before the law and that Greeks and Greeks have equal rights and obligations. At the same time, Article 13 of the Constitution expressly states that freedom of religious conscience is inviolable. The enjoyment of individual and civil rights does not depend on the religious beliefs of anyone. Every known religion is free and its worship is done unreservedly under the protection of laws. The 13th article of the Constitution expressly states that the officials of all known religions are subject to the same supervision of the state and to the same obligations towards it, as are the officials of the prevailing religion, namely the Greek Orthodox Christian religion. No one can, because of his religious beliefs, get rid of fulfilling his obligations to the State or refuse to comply with the laws. On the basis of the above-mentioned requirements of the Constitution, this amendment which the Ministry of Education introduces today becomes more than necessary. The Greek state has a duty to legislate on the equality and iso-state of all Greek citizens, be they Christian Orthodoxs or Muslims. With this amendment, i.e. Article 5 of Law 1920/1991, Muslim Greek citizens will now have the right, the possibility and not the obligation to apply Islamic law. The Greek Muslims will have the same judge as the other Greeks, the ordinary courts, i.e. the same family and hereditary law, on the basis of the applicable Civil Code. The current draft law creates a presumption of jurisdiction of the common courts for all Greek citizens and for the first time for the differences between Muslim Greeks. With the proposed amendment, the institution of the mufit remains. However, the exercise of its existing competences, that is, the exercise of the responsibilities of the mosquito, in the event that both parties declare in writing their will to appeal to its jurisdiction. The muft is and remains a public officer. However, his up to now role, involving three essential qualities, that of the religious leader, the administrative officer and the judiciary, is changing. In conclusion, I would like to refer to another aspect of the issue concerning the election of the mushroom, which, in my opinion, incorrectly touched public opinion. According to the law, the muft is a public minister appointed by a presidential decree, on a proposal by the Minister of Education for a ten-year term. It should be noted that the Council of State has rejected the argument in this regard as regards the emergence of the moufit by all Greek Muslims. The Council of State has decided in its 466/2003 that the election of mufts by all Muslim Greek nationals in its region would be contrary to the definition of other civil servants and judiciary officials, according to the Greek constitutional legal order in which both civil servants and judges are not elected by Greek citizens. Accordingly, religious and spiritual leaders of Orthodox Christians are chosen by a special procedure laid down in the law, without allowing them to be chosen from all orthodox Christians or from the respective metropolitan regions. So Greek justice has made it clear that it is not possible for a category of citizens, such as the Muslims of Thrace, to elect a religious person from all the Muslims. In conclusion, on this point, ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks support and vote in favour of this draft law of the Ministry of Education, and in principle and on the articles, which, in our opinion, equates the rights of all Greek citizens, ensures equality and equilibrium with the laws of the State and is in line with the rules of international law and, at the same time, maintains the continuity of customary law in matters of religious beliefs and practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Wish all of us good, fertile and creative year, peace all over the world and health to all people. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Greece is a rule of law. This is a conquest of our country and its people. Being a rule of law is both a choice of our society, a society that its ancestors have succeeded in having founded democracy and our obligation as a Member State of the European Union. For our country their highest law is the Constitution, where it is clearly recorded that we are all equal and equal compared to the law. So the same applies to civil law. In accordance with the UN Charter, of which we are a founding member, all people have equal rights. The Centro Association has a deep commitment to human rights and its policy I believe includes respect for these rights, as clearly identified in international conventions and our national legislation. In this context, it is incomprehensible in the year 2018 to experience issues relating to serious inequalities between men and women. Every piece of legislation, therefore, that cures these inequalities, is seen as positive, because all our fellow citizens are entitled to equal treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day, in the view of the Central Association, both for Greece and for Europe. Today, after nearly half a century of political weakness, inertia and embarrassment, the Greek Parliament found the famous political will and dares finally look into the eyes of Greek Muslims of Thrace. From now on, there will no longer be European territory on which to enforce Muslim law. Our country, however, will continue to maintain its uniqueness. To date, it has been the only part of the European Union that has been and must have been applied. Today it will be the only place in Europe where recourse to Muslim law will be another legitimate choice and another guaranteed right for Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think you will disagree with the assessment that things around us are changing and, indeed, they are changing very quickly. And I don't believe either that there's anyone among us who claims to know what the future will bring. What is going to happen in our neighborhood, neither of us know nor can we somehow ensure that the changes that have already begun and come are all good and beneficial to our country and our fellow citizens. There's no guarantee of what dawns us. What we can do, however, is explain with all honesty to the Greeks what these critical choices are that open up before us or even what the blackmailing possible dilemmas may be with which we may face as a nation, as a Greek and be called to deal with them. And we must do this, always within the framework of the lasting, open and public dialogue that stands out for democratic societies, we must try to clearly formulate and put those right questions together, those that will enable us to be entitled to hope that we will find and eventually get the right answers, if there are of course those answers. It is no accident, therefore, that any Greek and ask and ask to tell you what are our national issues, that is to say, the ones we must stand by definition all united together as a nation, will answer with geographical definitions: Thrace, Macedonia, Northern Epirus, Aegean, Cyprus. What do these words mean in this Chamber? What can Thrace mean to Greece today? What does Macedonia mean to modern Greeks? What does the Northern Continent mean to our youth? What does it mean to Hellenism the Aegean? What does Cyprus mean to the Greek nation? That's what we have to answer, we don't want to. They're just questions with very difficult answers. However, in all these questions, we will be called upon to answer by our vote and, in particular, by our vote in conscientiously, because these questions do not have any political lines, there are no party lines, because every wrong answer will cost us blood, whether those who have already spilled it and waste it or those who have sworn to defend themselves with these words for which we are debating and deciding. Ladies and gentlemen, Thrace, Macedonia, Northern Epirus, Cyprus, the Aegean Sea. We're surrounded by national issues. Actually, we're surrounded by threats. Turkish reform remains, of course, the largest of them and is the main common element, the link between our problems. On all our national issues we can easily identify Turkey's role and see its crucial involvement in harmful activities for us. The Turkish Consulate perishs in Thrace, as does the Turkish authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were talking about Cyprus and the Aegean, tomorrow we will be talking about Macedonia. But today, we're talking about Thrace. In our consciousness all the issues of the Muslim community of Thrace are listed as part of one of our largest national issues. The treatment of our Muslim fellow citizens has been established for many decades from our foreign policy. Whether this is right or wrong will be judged by history, as will be judged by our decision today if we will show confidence in our forces and finally address the issues of the Thrace Muslims as should, as a purely internal theme of the Greek state. That is exactly what we are doing here today. Unfortunately, however, we cannot prevent the Greeks from making various associations. First of all, we all, as I said, are aware that things in our area are changing, whether we like them or not. There are, in fact, excessive pressures on a number of different sides to resolve a number of issues without being able to control all their effects and the solutions proposed for the interests of our country. We should therefore all be very careful and, above all, those who are in positions of responsibility and negotiate on behalf of the Greek citizens, who must ensure that they stand up to the circumstances, promote the national interest in partyism rather than seek the temporary and informed satisfaction of some allies who do not understand or some supposedly friends who do not respect international law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Centres' Union has backed the decision at the very first moment to deal with the question of the implementation of the Muslim law in Thrace as well as our point of view is what will happen and what we will do with the election of mufts. That is why I believe that some wrong manipulations have been made by the government regarding the conduct of the relevant dialogue. Evidence is that a number of our fellow citizens have already formed an opinion that all decisions are part of a secret agreement with Turkey, which all of us are ignoring and which has been the result of a secret diplomacy. According to this view, it has already shown what we give, but it has not shown what we get. You have given rights, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the amendments, with various situations, which have not been sufficiently explained, as was this amendment with the famous Turkish union of Xanthi. We started talking about the Sharia, just before Erdogan arrived and opened a dialogue on mute elections, shortly after Erdogan left. At the same time, you are presenting public opinion as possible, on the one hand, with the possibility of the eight Turks being tried in our country and, on the other hand, with the scenario being deported to Turkey through a third country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association, without being influenced by scenarios, will await Parliament's official decision, but also by the Government, on all our national issues, without questioning what the words Thrace, Macedonia, Northern Epirus, the Aegean, Cyprus, mean for us in the Central Union, these words Greece. So before I get off this Step, I think I have an obligation to clarify our attitude to the scaffolding. The Macedonian was in the era of Paul Mela. There's no Macedonian for us in the Centron Association. There's no Macedonian problem, there's no scum. Skopje is the problem that we have to solve and it has been named by those who have created it. So the scaffolding is not solved for us in the Centro Association, called 'New Macedonia', and the reason is simple. Greece has never been a colonial country or even sought it. So, according to the culture of colonists, the addition of the word "News" - New York, New Orleans, New Zealand - could solve the problems of the powerful people of the world, when they had to find names for the vicious places that conquered and subdoggans, but for us in Greece, in Greek history, the word "News" entered in front of our tragedies: Nea Philadelphia, Nea Smyrni, Nea Machineonia, Nea Krini, New Ionia. Here in this ancient land, which each stone has its own name, the word "News" we needed to keep the cities from being lost in the oblivion of history, in which the Greeks grew up and the Turks burned and destroyed. Nor, of course, can Skopje solve the "North Macedonia" or "North Macedonia", because both presuppose that Macedonia is divided into two. Macedonia, however, is one and it is Greek. Besides, the geopolitical view of things confirms that where the division of north and south was selected worldwide, we have led to endless conflicts and inexhaustible conflicts. Ladies and gentlemen, when we consider the name of our neighbours we should remember that these unfortunate people are not a single nation. That's where it all starts. From there comes their in vain efforts to guard what they can from Greece. They don't have the components of the nation. What language do they speak? What nationality do they have? What's their origin? What's their religion? What's their story? They have nothing, and we mustn't, nor can we. Because we must also be exposed to the scam of those who know a little history, as Mr Zaev is also exposed, the Prime Minister of this state, who tried to convince the Greeks of his good intentions, and assure us that he does not claim the exclusiveity of Alexander the Great. But it is doing us a favor to share this exclusive with us. Let us also do him a favor not to be the ones responsible for the collapse of the negotiations imposed by the allies. Let it be their inability to prove that they don't have anti-hyperglycaemic sights. Let it be their inadequacy to answer the question, what language you speak, what is your relationship with Alexander the Great, and what is your right to history. The Centro Association is voting in favour of the draft law on sharia and will give political battle with arguments so that the words and concepts in which they are sworn today with their blood are not lost by those who are called to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u20	The special speaker from Potami, Mr Gregory Psarianos, is called in Stepma. Mr. Fisherman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I wish many years, good year and good minds to all of us. I wouldn't want to get away at all. We have been placed in detail in committee and once and twice on the issue we are discussing, which, of course, relates to an institutional framework which is unique in the world. It is unique in Europe - I am not talking about it - but it is almost all over the world unique. I think that the laws of the Sharia, an institutional framework of theocratic type, apply only to Yemen, to a small island of Indonesia and to some other very small areas, even to the Islamic world, even to the Muslim states around the globe. And - strangely - for decades now it has been a mandatory institutional framework for the Greek Muslims of Thrace. Now this becomes optional, of course, and urban law is being promoted. This is a small step. We must, however, say here that we should be willing to respond to the various counter-problems and to abolish an extremist, theocratic, horrific legislative framework that tramples on human rights. And if we want to talk about respect for human rights in relation to European legislation and the civilised world, we would have to go ahead with the complete abolition of a legislative framework which is absolutely theocratic and which we could only say what we would do if we had a special religious framework for the Catholics in Syros and Tinos, for the twelfths in Pieria, for the gods in Laconia, for the Jews in Chalandri. All these issues should have been central to us for many years and should have gone ahead with the settlement and abolition of such theocratic legislative frameworks, which are outside the Constitution and the laws of a civilised country and which, I repeat, are no longer valid anywhere but Greece. Accordingly, there are also issues that concern our Orthodox faith and Greek Orthodoxy, regarding relations between the State and the Church. I do not want to go into these issues, to which my colleague from the JRC has referred. We are absolutely in favour of complete separation or, in the first phase, of a distinct role of the Church with the State, where the Church cannot indicate to the State what the school's lessons will be, for example, as the State cannot say which redundancy will be singing on the Great Friday in the Church. It is absolutely necessary to see the separation of the State from the Church, which in Islamic, Muslim countries, which we regard as absolutely theocratic, has been solved for many years, such as Turkey, which has been solved by the Messo-war. We are still a sign of a theocratic regime within Europe. Extreme example of this story is that we maintain this specific legal framework whereby a grandfather can marry a young girl eight years old, for example, a framework concerning family, hereditary, educational issues, matters of justice in general and of human relations, on the pretext that we respect the rights of a religious minority. That is not the argument we can support. We are simply hesitant to move on with great steps in what we need to do and which is not just on this issue, it is also on many other issues, not just legal or religious. With regard to what is happening in Greek Thrace, to the Greek Muslims in Thrace, I do not now want to extend to the mistakes of the Greek state and of the occasional governments - all governments - which, for eighty years now, we have been unable to create a normal European, modern state, and we have still been afflicted with stories from past centuries. I would not like us to remember the erroneous policies of the Greek governments on Thrace in general, where the asphalt stopped and the dirt road and laspyria began, where the power lines were stopped and the light bulbs, where the schools and any benefits and driving licences were stopped. In other words, we were giving rights to a Greek population, denying the existence of the few Turkish peoples of Thrace and saying that there is no minority of Turkish people, but only Muslims and we gave the Turkish propaganda the Gypsies, the Pomacians and other non-Turkish populations. We are still maintaining the implementation of an anachronistic and inhuman legal theocratic system and framework, which we are reluctant to abolish. We are taking a small step towards modernization. We shall vote in principle on this small step. I must repeat that this is also the aim of a modern European state. And I say European because, you know, only Europe can be seen as a solid, civilised society in the world. If anyone has to propose another as more civilised, more modern, more democratic, more respectful of human rights, to tell us. Europe is the sample, Europe is the lead. And that's why all the populations of the earth would like to come to be twisted in Europe and that's what they're trying to do. And that is what we are trying to deal with, while Europe itself should have tried to make the other parts of the earth like Europe and not to denounce and abuse the interests and European monopolies and the twilights and some other 'arlubes' that we hear from both the left and the right. We must therefore go ahead with the abolition of an anachronistic, completely inhuman legal theocratic framework, which is no longer the case here but by saying that if we abolish it we will disrupt our relations with Turkey and open up a debate on the Lausanne Treaty. The Treaty of Lausanne does not refer to any sharia. There is none of this in the Lausanne Treaty. Nothing at all. If we say that we abolish it, no one can tell you "why are you pulling this down and suppressing the minority?" etc. Since you've abolished it too, man, since it's not true in Turkey! This legislative framework does not apply to any Muslim country. Only in small pieces of Muslim populations are valid. I repeat that on a small island of Indonesia in Yemen, and I do not know whether it is partly in Saudi Arabia. We shall therefore vote in principle on this modernisation effort. But we want to reiterate that we must, with great and courageous steps, address such issues that regulate human relations and respect human rights, which really respect human rights. The legislative framework of Sharia does not respect human rights. We need to know and know very well and our Muslim patriots and friends, who are forced to implement a law, which we are trying to make optional, as we really have to do. As in Greek Christian, Christian orthodox procedures we have the political marriage, which is basically the current marriage in Turkey. First, political marriage and religious marriage are optional and secondary. With the same reluctance we went ahead with the procedures concerning marriage, baptism. At funerals we haven't gone yet, we haven't moved forward, we haven't taken the steps we should have taken, like, to say, the right to burn the dead, etc., and so on. I don't want to open a lot of issues. All this, however, had to have been regulated so far by many governments before today, and most of all the current government, which is a left-wing government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u22	We close the list of special speakers with the Congressman of the Golden Dawn Mr. Panagiotis Eliopoulos. Then the Minister will talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, will I call the legislature before Mr. Eliopoulos speaks?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u24	Yes, before Mr. Iliopoulou goes up to Step. Mr. Eliopoule, wait, if you'd like, for the Minister to say a few diabetics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, Mr Iliopoulou can speak and then say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u26	All right, then I'll give you more time to tell them at the same time as your speech, and then we'll join colleagues every three minutes. The first three are Mr Michelovanakis, Mr Charakopoulos and Mr Venizelos. Mr. Eliopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u27	Happy year with health and prosperity for all Greeks I wish Parliament's first meeting. As a first point, I would like to address the burning issue of the name of the Skopje state. For the Golden Dawn, the name of Macedonia is unnegotiable. We cannot even negotiate a name that belongs to Greece. It is disgraceful to negotiate that there will be a complex name called "Macedonia" in it, so we are clear and we are absolutely in that that we will not accept any such solution whenever you bring it to the Greek Parliament. We shall consider it a national treason, if the term 'Macedonia' is included, which you have already said should be included. We also had a protest show outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a moment ago - our parliamentary group and our leader, Nikos Michalliakos - because we are preparing a lunch with the Deputy Prime Minister of Skopje. We want to make it clear to all tons that a name belonging to Greece is not going to negotiate. It is a very simple solution: anyone who wants to be called Macedonia or says that his country is called Macedonia can be integrated into our country. As far as the bill is concerned, there is a secret diplomacy, which seems to be evolving and flying some krone which we slowly see coming as a bill. You said a number of months ago that what we are voting on today would come, the choice of Muslims in the sharia. We, as Golden Dawn, are very clear that we are against the sharia. You should abolish it with a bill, not actually like a Trojan horse, to do another favor in the 'Sultan' Erdogan. And I say 'even a hand', because if we look at the picture as a whole, we have this: we are voting today and after a few months or immediately - I do not know when you will bring it, but the Prime Minister has already announced it - you will bring a bill that will do something outrageous, which is not happening either in Turkey. In other words, instead of the mufts being appointed, as is happening today in Greece and Turkey - I repeat that the mufts are appointed in Turkey - you will try, you say, to find a way to be elected. In combination with today's bill, we have as an overall picture that Muslims will be able to choose to clarify these cases - hereditary law and everything else that regulates, hereditary, painting, marriages, etc. - through the "fake guy". It will, of course, be a "false" because it will be elected by a body that you do not know, but you are looking for it. You want after so many hundred years to begin even with the Muslim law. So these things are unprecedented. It's never happened anywhere in the world. You want to test our poor homeland. We won't allow it. We hope, in other words, that we do not allow it. Let us now refer to the bill. As the previous speaker said - and it is true - Greece is the only country to which the sharia applies. Minister, why is the sharia being applied? Why, since you are so sensitive to human rights, do you not completely abolish it? It was so simple. Why would you give a choice? What is the point of giving a Muslim a choice to go to apply the sharia to his mushrooms? Isn't that unfair to all the other Greeks? Why should all other Greeks go in accordance with the law and resolve these differences in civil courts - and quite rightly - and Muslims have a 'extra window' to go where they want to resolve these differences? Why don't you completely abolish the sharia so we can vote? In fact, we'll vote with our hands and legs! However, this abortion cannot be voted on. It is an abortion that essentially opens the ferry after what you are going to bring, so that Muslims go to the "fakes" and make equal interlocutors of the Greek state who will actually guide the Turkish consulate in order to be elected. Hey, no! It's disgraceful! It is disgraceful and will not be accepted under any circumstances! So we - and I do not want to get tired anymore - are quite clear. We say 'no' to the sharia. We say 'yes' to the total abolition of the Sharia, in order to stop Greece being the only state in the world that applies the Sharia and to become aware, so that we too can agree with human rights and Muslims - who so much do - to be equal and not a 'click' more than the other Greeks. So we say "equality for all Greeks. Everyone in civil courts’. This abortion can't pass. I will see you then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you too for your brief speech. The Minister will now take the floor, to which, as I have said, I will give a little more time. Please, Minister, start with the legislative improvements and present them so that they can be photographed and distributed to colleagues. Then you can start your main placement. Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. There are some legislative changes and additions which are also the result of the discussions in the Committee on Educational Affairs. The first is that the title of the draft law is recast as follows: ‘Amendment of Article 5 of 24.12.1990 Act of Legislative Content on Muslim Religious Operations’ (A'182), ratified by Article alone of Law 1920/1991 (A'11)’. The second is: in the first paragraph of Article 1, the words 'at the end of Article 5 of the Treaty. 1920/1991 (A'11), in which the Act of Legislative Content of the "Muslim Religious Operations" (A'182) was ratified as follows: "At the end of Article 5 of the Act of Legislative Content of the Muslim Religious Functions" (A'182), which was ratified by Article alone of Law 1920/1991 (A'11)". The third legal addition is that in the first paragraph of Article 1, the added sub-paragraph, after the words ‘and the adoption of its decisions’, the words ‘and in particular the procedure for the submission of a request by the parties, which must contain the details of the introductory pleadings in the Code of Civil Procedure and, for the purpose of nullity, an expressly irrevocable statement of each party concerning the choice of a particular jurisdiction...’, etc. are added. This is replaced by the words ‘recommendation and procedure for filling staff seats...’ and the words ‘of the service concerned’ shall be inserted after ‘of the record keeping’. The fourth legal addition is that in the second paragraph of Article 1 after the words 'para. The words 'of the Act of Legislative Content' shall be added to Article 5. The third paragraph shall be recast in terms of title. The sixth legislative change is important and it is what you said, Mr Andriane, in relation to the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. In the Seventh Legislative Legislation, a title recast is being recast. And in the eighth legislature it says that the Scientific Committee - which you have again proposed - has to table, within thirty days, the procedural rules relating to the drafting of the Presidential Decree. We are therefore putting forward these legislative changes. Any questions we may raise then.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a really important day in Parliament not only because there is the agreement of all parties, except the Golden Dawn, for this bill, but because I think that the arguments and counter-objections of an extremely complex situation are very clear, for which, with the solution we are proposing, we seem to have managed to have a social and political consensus. This is very important, because issues relating to the more democratic functioning of our society, issues relating to equality should be dealt with in a similar way. Let me remind you that the problem that we are today trying to manage with the proposal of optionality is a problem, it is a situation that has its origins in 1882. Since then, the current situation has been created through obviously complex procedures. The current situation has arisen, particularly in terms of hereditary and family law, within a deadlock of policies against the Muslim minority. This is the most serious of all issues, namely that this has been incorporated into a policy that literally wanted to create citizens of a second category. Things have been done by other governments. For example, the Mitsotakis Government's initiative in 1991 was an important initiative. Of course, it was also the agreement that had been made to the Universal Government at the time to lift these restrictive measures as to where Greek citizens can travel. A major initiative has been taken by George Papandreou when he was Minister of Education. And we come today to take a step which touches too much of the everyday life of our fellow citizens. This is very important. It's not a technical arrangement. It seems to be a technical arrangement while, as I said, touching many such elements of everyday life. And I say this because, if this type of issue is not dogmatically attached to the respect for identities, no measures can be understood and no measures can be accepted at all. Because the identities are historically identified. There's no identities outside history. There's no identities outside of space. So the spatiality of these elements, that is, the consciousness of the citizens, is one thing we need to have in mind when we move on to such issues. And I think that the vote of all the parties at the same time confirms the agreement of all the parties that we are aware of this worthwhile element of democracy, namely respect for the identities. But, as we said, these issues are also dynamic, because history is nothing static. I'll give you a very small example. Muslim Greek citizens have been able to choose either political or religious marriage since 1983. According to the data from the archives we have in the last four years, 70% of marriages are religious and 30% of marriages are politicians. It would be a mistake to think that this is a backward element. It is an element that expresses consciences, expressing identities. This has not been disproved because I have also heard in public forums say that this is not right. Our only source is registry, and we have official answers from the registrars we asked them this question. This seems to be stable in recent years. So 70% means something. This should be interpreted with respect for the daily lives of these citizens. That is why we are saying that the first step we need to take is the step of optionality, as all previous speakers have explained. Because this also reflects a reality socially, reflects a respect in this world. We say this by pointing out that both proposals which have been heard, namely the proposal to abolish the effect that Mr Psarians had on me, because I have absolutely no confidence and acceptance and tolerance in the arguments of the Golden Dawn - the issue of abolition is really a proposal with arguments which one cannot easily ignore. Also, it's not something that's out of our minds. What we are saying, however, is 'now what do we do?' And I do not want to go back to this argument in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media: 'Okay, in any case, it is a small step and we will support it.' Why has this small step been unsuccessful for so many decades? I will not go into logic if it is a small step or a big step. However, it is an extremely important step, it is based on sound arguments and legal arrangements, and we therefore think it is very convincing, too, to the issue of the proposal to abolish now, not to abolish in general and vaguely. Of course, to be fair, we have to say that there is no such regime in Europe. But please, I do not want to hide behind our finger, because in Europe there is at the same time a regime which Europeans themselves consider to be a very problematic social regime, where these de facto issues are accepted and then reflected in notarial acts, etc. It's not that simple. Europeans themselves are aware of this problem. There is a very rich literature on these issues. There are also arguments in favour of the continuation of the current regime. I want to be clear. They are arguments which do not lack a reasonable structure. They are arguments which, however, are based on something that we have to make collectively clear in this Chamber. This morning, I received a letter from the President of the Jerusalem Society, Mr Mustafa Memet. It is an extremely well-structured letter and the core of the letter, which wants the current regime to be maintained, is a fear that the daily lives of these people, the way of life of these people, many of the worthwhile elements of these people, will not be called into question. Here, then, we must be clear that, instead of the fears that exist, we want to respect and respect this worthy framework, this framework which is often expressed by their everyday lives. What does that mean? That if anyone respects it, he can't make any changes? The answer is clearly no. Because you may respect something and firmly believe that the change you make, not only does not undermine this worthy system, does not undermine a daily life that these people live, reproduce, etc., but also strengthens democracy within these communities. So what I would like to stress is that both the arguments in favour of the abolition and the arguments in favour of the continuation of the current regime are arguments that are'scared', not change or change things. Since I have the opportunity to mention this, some people are saying that we are not doing it all by ourselves and that we should move on until the abolition. Also, those who believe in the continuation of the present regime are saying whether any change of this kind brings such serious changes in our everyday life, which we will not be able to handle. The common position of all three - and what we are proposing - is that there must be changes in the organisation of mushrooms. That is precisely what will be the contents of the Presidential Decree. We said there would be a scientific committee to make proposals on the content of this presidential decree. I'll be done soon. I do not want it to be seen as responding to a certain criticism that has been made. I will reverse the criticism and say: why cannot we in this Chamber discuss calmly many issues relating to social rights and democracy? Because permanently there must be something wicked, permanently there must be something that others have told us to do, etc.Huh? Finally, let us all accept that we are an independent country and that we are moving forward with our own values and our own policy. Anything else is from the wicked one, and I would ask you very much not to make the mistake, usually made by too many people, that any coincidence in time also involves a causal relationship. I would like to end by saying that it is one of the few bills where the cooperation of the ministries on its pension has been very substantial, precisely because there has been this involved past since 1882. Cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was really very essential. Thank them very much. I would, however, like to thank a person in particular, the Secretary-General of Religious Affairs, Mr Georgios Kalanzis, who I think has exceeded himself in hours of work and difficulty so that we can have a text, indeed, acceptable to all of us, but also a text that even those who do not want it in Thrace respect that it is a first major conquest. I would like to end by reading a very small part of the Prime Minister's speech in Komotini on 14 November, when he presented this proposal: 'One can think that the changes we are seeking concern only our Muslim fellow citizens. However, the changes we are seeking are worthy of character and allow the worthy codes of the majority and minority to find even more common elements. And with every common element, which we add to what we are united, the stronger the social cohesion and the ties that guarantee that we are going together and on an equal footing in these difficult times for all." It is a part of the speech, which I hope expresses everyone in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u31	Good. I would like to see this approved by Mr Venizelos - and this is how Mr Venizelos, Mr Michelosanakis and Mr Charakopoulos, if he agrees, for Mr Venizelos to come before me, because he has an unsettled obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u32	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u33	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u34	As far as I can see, colleagues agree. Come on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as the draft law was presented in its original form, I made a public statement that I find it right, I think it is moving in the right direction and I support it. I would, however, like the former Foreign Minister, the Professor of Constitutional Law and the rapporteur of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights to deliver my opinion in plenary in order to be recorded in the Minutes of this House. In order to facilitate the codification of my opinions, I have also tabled an amendment concerning the procedural part of the matter. The procedural part, however, is inextricably linked to the protection of rights and the substance of the problem. I am starting with the fundamental issue of the legal regime, in which we are moving. Is there an international obligation on the country to establish and maintain a special procedure for Muslim citizens, Greek citizens established in Thrace, or is this a choice of national legislator, in the context of the national constitution and national legal order? It is clear to me - and this is the dominant view in scientific dialogue - that there is no international obligation in the country. We are neither bound by the Treaty of Athens nor by the previous Treaty of Istanbul. And the Treaty of Lausanne, which obviously applies, refers to the customs of the Muslim minority, and even to the condition of reciprocity, but which is a difficult term in the field of human rights. You cannot place the protection of human rights on the condition of reciprocity. It is therefore a completely different question of respect for customs and an entirely different question of subjecting to a special jurisdiction. which is governed by the sacred Muslim law, the so-called sharia. The scientific response to this issue, and it forms the dominant view, goes hand in hand with the relevant case-law of the Council of State and, in addition to the opinions of the Legal Council of State, accepting this view of you. However, the Ice Bay case law is different. The Areos Ice accepts that there is an international obligation in the country. Its case-law, in fact, at times refers to the Treaty of Athens and the Treaty of Lausanne. However, it seeks ground in international law and in rules of relatively increased formality, in accordance with Article 28(1) of the Constitution. In any case, the problem, which could be said to have been solved since 1991 by ratifying the December 1990 Act of Legislative content, created the question of the interpretation of this legislation by the Marios Ice. It could be interpreted as completely different, namely accepting the voluntary and potential nature of subjecting Muslim Greek citizens to the jurisdiction of the judiciary and to the sacred Muslim law. The problem has arisen since a problematic case-law of the Ice Bay was established, which interpreted the 1991 law in conjunction with non-applicable international conditions, in this case such as the Treaty of Athens, so as to make the subject of Greek Muslims in Thrace compulsory. He deprived them of the right to choose between the ordinary political courts and the judiciary. This is an interpretation that runs counter to every interpretative concept. First of all, it goes against the fact that we do not have a multiplicity of legal orders here. We have a constitution of liberal democracy and the rule of law, which is part of European legal culture, which is interpreted in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the other rules of international law that protect human rights. The interpretation of the obligation and the impossibility of opt-out of Muslim Greek citizen from the scope of the Saria and the judiciary is an insult to the rule of law, to the Greek Constitution and to the European Convention for Human Rights. This insult, however, was not made by the 1991 legislator, because the court imposed that interpretation. After all, in practice, the infringement of international law, the European Convention on Human Rights, always makes it a supreme court, not the legislator. Because the citizen, the individual, in order to bring an individual appeal to Strasbourg, must have exhausted internal legal remedies. So an irrevocable decision is needed. So he, who violates the European Convention on Human Rights, is always the judge. It is not the legislator who intervenes - and it may be the fault - but only if he agrees with his poor choice and the judge, much more if the judge chooses an interpretation that overhears the will of the legislator, as in this case. And I say that it exaggerates the will of the legislator, because Muslim Greek citizens of Thrace anyway had the right to choose a political marriage and to be subject to the ordinary civil courts and civil Code. But for other matters, such as hereditary law, this subjection was extremely hard. And on the issues of family law and personal situation because of the marriage of minors we had arrived in extreme cases, i.e. in the case of a marriage with a minor corps in Thrace, moving the couple to Germany and the husband being arrested because of having taken a "children kidnapping" and he going to prison, and the girl going to social services. So the problem is what Mr Gavroglou has raised earlier. What's the right solution? Look, the right solution, the absolutely clear one, which leaves no room for doubt, is to abolish the application of the sacred Muslim law. If you were to tell me laboratory, legal, scientific, to give you an answer, the answer is that. Is this regulation, which is an important step required by the case law of the Ice Bay, in terms of constitutionality and compatibility with the European Convention on Human Rights, as a transitional - I insist - regulation, in order to cultivate consciences and to formulate practices? It shall be preserved only in an interpretative version, in the sense that a quasi-judicial arbitration procedure is established, to which the parties are willingly subject by mutual agreement. For there is no doubt that the moor as a priest is not a court within the meaning of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. The conditions of neither Article 8 - a legitimate judge - nor Article 20 - the right to legal protection - nor Articles 87 et seq., which define the guarantees of personal and operational independence of the judge and of the court are not fulfilled. There is, however, arbitration where a private may be a arbitrator, much more may be a State official. For this to happen, however, there must first be voluntary subjection by common accord. Second, the Greek ordinary civil courts, i.e. the Court of First Instance and after the higher courts, must review the judgment and declare it enforceable, as is the case with all the arbitral rulings. This control is provided for in the 1991 Act, but in practice it is not. Since this control is organised in accordance with the procedure of public jurisdiction, because the prosecutor is not in fact present as a party and because legal means are excluded, this type of case cannot be taken into account - control of the enforcement of the judgment of the court - in the Marios Igos and a huge problem arises. It is incomplete to review the rules on over-legislative powers, now with the recasting, and Article 4(2), as an indicative provision, equal treatment for men and women, and the European Convention on Human Rights - but there is still only a hasty and precarious decision from the Court of First Instance. Thousands of cases are dealt with without detecting incompatibility, incompatibility, unconstitutionality, infringement of public policy, and without being able to bring legal proceedings, which are explicitly excluded from the 1991 provision. Therefore, I believe that this is in the transitional phase, that is to say, in the procedural provision in accordance with my amendment to Article 5(3) of the 1991 Act, that, in addition to referring to the Constitution and in particular to Article 4(2) and to the European Convention on Human Rights, I agree with the wording given by the Minister on the part of the refened rules - the following - it must be provided for in the Rules of Procedure to be communicated to the prosecutor so that he can attend as a party, as is the case in many cases of voluntary jurisdiction, and that the procedural and procedural remedies provided for are exercised. In other words, an appeal and an appeal may also be made. There is the argument that: But, since the parties agree and go to the court of court, why is the state intervening with its courts? Because there is no power to distribute human rights. Resigning from human rights is a huge "cross" issue of the theory of law. In any event, there is an objective interest in the State, the legal order, in the application of the so-called public policy rules which cannot be waived by reason of the will of the parties. They are not rules of so-called domestic law. It's rules of forced law. Therefore, the parties may have been pressed, agreed, not to have thought about things, but after the stage of monitoring the enforceability, the declaration of enforceability, which is to control the unconstitutionality and any opposition to the European Convention on Human Rights, to be able to check by the judge on his own initiative. The constitutionality check does not need to start with a claim, request. The court may, of its own motion, do so on all matters, so in this regard too. Only there must be a party. It is the prosecutor, who represents the legal order, the law in the policies in which it is intended.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u37	You will allow me, Mr President, to say with your tolerance - and I thank you very much - that we are a step forward, but we are not doing the complete thing, it also comes from the international texts that I want to mention. There is an important case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Ministry knows it, especially in the cases concerning Refah Partisi v Turkey, which is four cases, that a party which deals with the implementation of the Sharia is rightly prohibited in the Turkish legal system. Note: Not the application of the sharia. And the promise of implementation! Also, there is a special decision - seating - of the Parliamentary Assembly since 2010, calling for an end to the implementation of the sharia, especially for Greece. There is also the infamous report by Commissioner for Human Rights - a position that Mr Muszalas claimed - by Thomas Hammarberg, 2009, which also explicitly raises the issue of abolition. So we have an unfinished business. But we are taking an important step. I close with something that will be discussed in the future, I imagine, the question of the moth. I do not want to place myself on it now, but from my experience for many years and from the continuation of discussions, because there is a continuation of the state. Nowhere must the qualities of the religious minister and of the prostitute, mute and evil be compared to one person. These properties can well be separated. They may be other skills of the mufit and the promotional process and other qualifications and process of nomination of the evil. We have discussed this many times and there is very much understanding of the legal and political issue. Nor do I think there is any interest in Turkey in implementing the sacred Muslim law in Greece. This is not a question of turning into a pressure exercise, because a people's state, an etat laic, a secular state, would also be a party to a similar issue that concerns Greece. In any case, I think that the listing of these issues in the Minutes, which is a tool for interpreting the law by the courts, and the maturing of the relevant issues in our own minds, will help us to take the full steps in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Thank you for the patience of Mr Harakopoulos and I call on Mr Michalayannakis, the first speaker, to move to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u39	Happy New Year to everyone. I will be just a few minutes in order to clear the time to the third speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, respect for the habits and customs of the Thrace Muslims is provided by international conditions and by respect for our state. We're promoting legal certainty. Of course, the regulation of matters relating to the competence of mushrooms is also coming soon. We are in no way banning in any case the possibility of appealing to the local, religious leader following both parties' agreement. Besides, the 1913 Athens Treaty forbids it. We are not in any way violating the Constitution and fundamental human rights. However, there are cases, particularly in women and minors who have serious problems. That is why there are civil courts which control the constitutional legitimacy of the decisions of the motto. The President-in-Office's decree, which we have heard from the Minister, is intended to clarify these responsibilities and is necessary. The presence of a lawyer before the mob ensures that there is no blackmail, and that is very important. Free legal assistance is provided for people with low incomes, also serious, especially at this time. So far there has been pluralism and at the same time serious ambiguity and loopholes of the law. The amendment of Article 5 solves problems in divorces, issues of nutrition and custody of children. The automatic subjection of family and hereditary affairs to Muslim law is therefore abolished. They don't change the rights of the mute, they remain as they are. It is simply possible for the parties to be able to choose between the moor and the civil courts. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Clearly, the simultaneous application of the bourgeois code and sacred Muslim law is not right, because both legal systems are distorted. We therefore respect the desire of our fellow citizens to choose and not to be in political fitness. We respect diversity and ensure democratisation of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Michelovanakis. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes, and then the parliamentary representatives will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Saria bill to the Greek Muslims of Thrace, whose legal dimensions Mr Venizelos analysed throughout the range, is taking place in the middle of important developments in so-called national issues. Evolutions that in recent times have concentrated in a rather unorthodox way. No one is sure to deny that Greece must make full use of the present situation, where a strong geopolitical mobility occurs, in order to promote its national laws as best as possible, in order to upgrade its strategic power and benefit from the new opportunities for economic and energy cooperation. However, a prerequisite for these objectives is serious preparation, but also cross-party cooperation, which will create a national blurred front. Otherwise, there is a risk that we will even be led to national retreats, which, ladies and gentlemen, are rarely restored to failures and errors in economic policy. I say this on the occasion of developments in Skopje and also on the Erdogan visit, which was decided and executed, a mani. And what's left of us was a bitter taste, and at the same time the question was what was the reason for this journey that took place deliberately and unpreparedly. Because today, it seems, we have to deal with the misfortune of a decision and a rather unknown to us behind the scenes. Because at first we had the Minister, Mr Gavroglou, and the Prime Minister, to talk about the election of mufts in Thrace, and then the unprecedented government intervention in justice for the cancellation of the granting of asylum to the Turkish officer. No matter how well-off one is - Mr Minister, I have heard you - it can only be tempted and wondered whether there have been commitments from our government to the other after the claims made by the public. However, even if there were no such commitments, the image, unfortunately, is a state that is rushing to fulfill the wishes of its highly aggressive neighbour, whose appetites of course grow when he sees its smug manoeuvre going through, as we have seen with the Turkish Vice-President Bekir Bozdag's statements. This road, ladies and gentlemen, is slippery and dangerous. As Mr Erdogan put it, this is an absolute falsification of reality, especially when he tries to put the Ecumenical Patriarch in the same bag as the local mufts. Patriarch Constantinople remains even today the point of reference of the unscrupulous orthodox in the world, not the religious shepherd of the few, unfortunately, who remained in the city after the persecutions systematically suffered and despite what the Treaty of Lausanne provides. So this is no place for an Oriental bazaar. Instead, Turkey should boast because the headquarters of the Ecumenical Patriarchate, the centre of world Orthodoxy, are on its territory and facilitate its operation. Sadly, it still forbids the operation of the Theological School of Halki, which arbitrarily imposed the closure in 1971 and has recently systematically transformed Byzantine temples, churches in mosques, first in recent years, Agia Sofia in Banking. All this may not be directly related to the bill we are discussing, but it is a burden on Greek-Turkish relations, the foundation of which is respect for the Treaty of Lausanne. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the status of justice for the Greek Muslims in Thrace is a matter of purely internal nature and as such we must deal with it. And I think that the bill after the changes we have proposed as the New Democracy is moving in the right direction, that is, it is further inspiring the isopoliticalism and equality of all Greeks, it strengthens gender equality and is in line with our legal culture and our European identity. Because in Greece, equality has, in practice, been conquered against all citizens regardless of their religious beliefs which are carried out by everyone in freedom. And to remind you again that the current provisions come to supplement the law of the New Democracy of Constantine Mitsotakis 1991, a law which was passed in a different political environment. It is very encouraging that these changes also come from all the stakeholders and especially from Greek citizens concerned, overcoming anachronistic procedures, such as the mandatory application of the sharia, especially in the areas of divorce and succession. The differences will now reach the mute as a priesthood only if both parties consent. This also sends the hopeful message that minorities can be bridges of friendship and cooperation between the peoples when the principles of equality, equality and religious and any other freedom are respected. In this way, they cannot find fertile ground for action by those undermining circles who would like to cause unnecessary and dangerous controversy. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy and on this issue, always in the national interest and away from micro-political and micro-political purposes, supports this bill, because we believe it is moving in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr Harakopoulou. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Ragos has the floor and then three MPs follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u43	How is the provision, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u44	Three - one, three - one. It is Mr Panayotaros, Mr. Karras, Mrs. Gara, and then the parliamentary representative Mr. Javaras will follow. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start by saying that the Golden Dawn has been and is in favour of the abolition of the sharia. That's for granted. I will continue, however, by saying - because these are things that many, especially from the people who are listening to us, do not know - what sharia is and what is being implemented in Greece. It's a complicated case. What the Ministry brings today, in order to have optional use of sharia, seems to be right. However, this poses many dangers, and these risks are the following: whether the muft who is now in Thrace and who has been appointed by the Greek state respects the rights of Greek citizens. On the condition that it goes to be voted on now, and because we have no confidence in the government in what it can do, especially in foreign policy and in national matters, if tomorrow's day after tomorrow, the Sharia, as many people say, is abolished, which we would like, should be done on condition that mufts are appointed by the Greek state. What's the muft right now in Thrace? Muftis is a minister - let us say so - a judiciary and thus appointed by the Greek state, is rewarded by it and works for the rights of the Greek nation. If, then, a decision is made and the pseudo-whispers, who are already in Thrace, who are creating problems, starting and taking initiatives, will certainly be facing a huge problem. If, then, the Greek Government brought in a bill that would abolish the Sharia, but it assured the Greek citizens, and the Christian and of course the Muslims who live in Thrace, that mufts would be appointed specifically by the Greek state, we would of course be in agreement. However, since this is not the case, I repeat, this bill leaves it "a window", either voluntarily or unintentionally by the government, in order to appoint pseudos from the Turkish Consulate and to do what they want in the dangerous area of Thrace, dangerous because of the interests of the Turkish Consulate. So we need to make all this understandable to the Greek people, to understand what is happening and what the dangers are presenting. Many people in this Chamber spoke a moment ago, but also before the process began, about the democratic rights of citizens and all of this. There are the democratic rights of Muslim citizens, which we of course also respect. There is a Muslim minority, which we respect. But, beyond the democratic rights of citizens, there is also the national interest, there is national good. We repeat that here it opens up a small but large, "window", and we do not know after a while what else this unacceptable "Greek" government will bring, which obviously raises the question of the election of whispers by the Turkish Consulate. That's all the danger. That is what we need to take care of as Greek citizens. Let us not forget that the muft controls the mosques in Thrace and also appoints religious officials, as it stops them. He also has under his supervision and financial management of the vaults. So we see a lot of interests being played. It's not just like that. I say once again that we must protect what is happening. I would like to dwell on a particular point - including what I said a moment ago - which makes us as Golden Dawn, of course, not to vote on this bill that comes today. So here's what's going on. The moor so far could make some decisions. These decisions, however, had to be passed through the court of pacifism and checked whether they were legal, and whether they were in line with Greek law, and if they did not conflict with the Greek state and the laws. Today, the draft law, which will pass, in Article 1(4)A, states in particular: ‘The application of the case to the jurisdiction of the muft is irrevocable and excludes the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts for this dispute’. Do you understand what's going on here? So if some go to the muft today, from now on, and get into a process, the decision of the muft does not pose a crisis and a question from the Greek state. Do you understand what you're voting for? There's a big deal here. Because I see that you are all talking and you are concerned about the democratic rights of citizens - together with us, we say that there are people's rights - but here we are putting a bomb on the foundations of our Thrace, which is already in a very difficult situation. And of course, as a Golden Dawn, we expect nothing more from one government. We are sure that people are ethnic traitors. But we are talking about the rest of the Greek people, to understand and understand what is happening. We must also stress - to finish this - that if false moths take jurisdiction slowly, in the way the government says they want to bring their election, the game of religion is in and not just education for the children of Muslims who are in our Thrace. And there, you know, the majority are Roma and Pomacians, the vast majority of whom state that they do not want their children to learn the Turkish language. There is, however, a war here, particularly against the Greek Pomacus, the heroic Pomacians, whom the Turkish consulate, by force or by bribery, in an indirect and immediate way, and the unacceptable attitude of the Greek Government, is pushed into the arms of the Turks. That should not be allowed. So, as Golden Dawn, we will emphasise once again that we are of course in favour of the abolition of the Sharia, but in the way we say, that the decision of the moor cannot be criticised by the Greek civil courts and that it is not possible for the mufts to be elected by something that you will define. The muft must definitely be appointed by the Greek state, for the cohesion of our country and our nation. That is what we had to say about this issue. Now we're going to something else, just as serious. Let's go to the issue of betrayal that happens to our Macedonia. You see here that the government - this unacceptable government of SYRIZA - ANEL - operates at the same time on two and three and four fronts. He creates some problems in our Thrace, accepts Erdogan, we hear his threats, we hear the rights he constantly raises. We must say that if either side has rights to question certain conditions and claim more things, it is only Greece and not, of course, Turkey. Greece has the right to increase its territorial waters, our maritime borders, at twelve nautical miles. We are not doing so while there are decisions of international law and international courts. Not only do we not do it as Greece, but we tolerate the Turks coming to the six miles to which we have been restricted and claimed by them. And we're sitting here talking to them. So we come to the Macedonian issue. First of all, we must stress to this "Greek" government that it has no right to negotiate the name of our Macedonia. These people, with their Marxist ideology, are against the nation, they are against the nation. They have another sensible socio-political policy, 'under the border', multiculturality. So you have no right at this time to try to impose another name that is treacherous for Greece. And if you say you are democrats and you observe democracy, "Behold Rhodes, behold and fuck." A referendum must be held and you must see what will be the overwhelming decision of the Greek people. But you don't dare do that. Furthermore, you all here, who will vote in favour of the name, the selling of our Macedonia, are not sterile and locked in a room of three hundred people and you decide and you order. You must be for the common good, you must be for what the Greek people say. Otherwise, you're dictators and you've put them in nice introductorys, posing as democrats. You dare, therefore, to vote on these shocking issues and you will see what will be decided by the Greek people. With what right now, the Minister, the Prime Minister and this government of political men dare to speak and sell the name of Macedonia? Sell your own name, your families, sell your homes and property. Macedonia was, is and will only be one Greek. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We see in foreign policy the issue that exists. The Skopje are in a very difficult position right now. The Skopje are pressed both from time and from the mistakes they have made over the years. And they've been isolated. And they're coming now and they're transferring this problem to us. They're throwing it away to Greece. What do we do? We run fast to show that we are the good children of international loan sharks to implement what they say to us, to stay another year and a half in power! And here in this particular case I don't have them with the SYRIZA government. It's them. That's their ideology. That's how they've been napped. But the others who pretend to be patriots? I'm not saying they're patriots and they're not nationalists. But, patriotism nuggets, patriots of Greece don't they have in their souls? Is it possible now for these people to vote for these things? Can they look after our fellow citizens in Macedonia, but not only in Macedonia, and across Greece? Because the issue is not a Macedonian. The issue is Greek. And also, it's not a Macedonian thing, it's a skeptic. The Skopje have the issue and they've thrown it over you. Greece must never accept this name. We must never give up our name. And you are very small - some land area, all of the Greek land, which is watered with blood and has been freed after they have died and sacrificed Greeks, the foam of Greek society, the most ignorant Greek citizens - you come with some signatures in ink and sell it. You're too young and you're unworthy in time and in history to do something like that. The Golden Dawn will fight to the end for our Macedonia and not just, but for all national issues. We'll be here. A few hours ago we were across the Kotzias meeting with the Albanian Minister. We once again said that Macedonia is one and it is Greek. You have no right to sell it. And here's the time crew and the funny story. Your ideological ancestors in the gang war fought with weapons to give Macedonia and Thrace and talked about independent Macedonia and Thrace. Then they were punished as they deserved and as they should. And you are coming today, you who have deceived the Greek people, supposedly, that you will solve the financial problems - you have stolen the Greek people's vote - and you have sold our country out every day. We won't let you! On January 21, all Greeks must be at the rally. There will be a huge answer for you stateless politicians. Once again, the slogan that is on the lips of all Greek citizens is justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u46	We continue with the speakers. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. The issue of sharia is a very serious issue which requires very calm treatment. And always this approach, which must be taken by the Greek Parliament, by the decision-makers, should have the national interest and that alone. Unfortunately, the role of the Turkish consulate in particular over the last two decades is strong enough for any attempt to move in the right direction in relation to issues relating to Thrace, its Greekity and the continuity of Hellenism in the wider region. Is it accidental that the moods, appetites and cheques of your pass, Mr Erdogan, automatically become part of the agenda of the Greek politicians who rule this place, by the President of the Republic, by the government, by the opposition parties and by your rhetoric? Of course, to be honest, SYRIZA has always had positions almost identical to those of the Turkish consulate, as in all national matters, SYRIZA has had the same positions as those who have been looking for our country in any way. At the same time as Thrace, our Thrace, the divided Thrace, because there is the part of the slave of Eastern Thrace, the occupied one, we put on all our national issues, the open, the least open, what others want to open up at the top of the issue that has been stirring our country since 1991, the issue of the name of this constitution, the state of Skopje. This is an issue, of course, which did not arise as magically with a magic wand in 1991 with the collapse of Yugoslavia. It is an issue that the comrades had started, during the gang war, fighting for independent Macedonia and preparing it beforehand. When Tito was imposed on Yugoslavia he created one of the socialist republics of Yugoslavia, Macedonia, while until its establishment he had another name and everyone knew it. And when the national state, which had prevailed over communists in the gang war, dared to falsify something about Yugoslavia's expansionist views in 1951-1952, then you see it was a right-wing government - our allies, in or out of import, told us "Don't tick Tito. Titus is currently in conflict with Stalin, so we have to do all of his favours." That is how the years passed, decades passed, generations of Skopje grew up with this lie that they were Macedonians and we arrived just before the collapse of Yugoslavia. It was somewhere in 1986-1987 when the then President of the Hellenic Republic, Mr. Sarzetakis, had taken a visit to Australia and we learned that there is such a matter. And how did we know? He made a speech in Sydney or Melbourne - I don't remember - and underneath it the various so-called Macedonians thrown eggs. And then they said, "Come on, what is this state? It's nothing." In 1991, however, Yugoslavia fell apart and that part of Yugoslavia had to be named. Who to forget the terrible rallys that had been made on the Greekity of our Macedonia in Athens, Thessaloniki and elsewhere? Who then forgets the embargo, which was imposed on two countries, England and the Netherlands, which somehow went to help Skopje in their name as Macedonia and terror when all Greek custodians banned any British or Dutch? And where there was the question of finding a temporary solution until no one expected it, nor did the foreign ombudsmen themselves expect the Greek Government to use the name Macedonia in any way, then the highly betrayal temporary solution of "the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" was proposed. Since then, over twenty years have recognized them almost the whole of the earth, not even Macedonia, but as the Republic of Macedonia, and that is the excuse you now bring to Parliament, namely, that 'after they have all been recognized what to do, ladies and gentlemen?'. We can do anything. All the land to recognize Skopje as Macedonia, if we here in Greece do not accept this and sabotage within the Greek territory whoever or who uses that name, in the end we will achieve our goal of imposing our right, our right, the one and the only. We see and hear various false excuses that there will be a composite name, sometimes, they say, by geographical definition, sometimes by some other definition. We have heard the barbaric patriots of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kammenos - not the President-in-Office, but the party President - say that he trusts Mr Kotzias, that it is enough that Macedonia should not be told in Greek. But, well, are we kidding now? These are incredible things that we hear and do. All the golf clubs show that over 80% of Greek citizens do not want the name Macedonia, neither complex nor anything at all. And you do not dare, of course, make any referendum at all, because it will be a trick. But you should know that in the end the law and the right will be enforced. We heard Mr Katrugalo when the issue was raised by a journalist - it must have been yesterday, if I am not mistaken, in an interview this morning - talking about this issue to say that there should be no referendum, because it is certain that the feeling of logic will prevail. Of course, Mr Katrugale, because that is always the case! And it is certain that neither Paul Melas nor Captain Kottas nor End Agras nor the Macedonians who gave their lives and left to fight for the liberation of the occupied then Macedonia had in mind the logic, but they had the feeling, the philosophy, the love for our country and wanted to liberate the last square centimeters of slave land, as well as all those who fought in general. Unfortunately, we see that all but the Golden Dawn now have compromised. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We see the Macedonian barbarians - if you allow me, Mr President, I conclude in half a minute - decades to write books, to rectify, to speak on this issue and now even some of them are talking about 'an honest compromise'. The New Democracy should finally answer us from now on: in Bucharest, what did you say? Didn't you accept the designation 'Macedonia', either as geographical or as something else? You have no position and your opposition tactics, which have now begun against SYRIZA, which had earlier signed in favour of the name "Democracy of Macedonia", is that there is no single line from the government. Is this your problem, gentlemen, whether you will vote 'yes' or 'no' in some treasonal solution? Is it a question whether the Independent Greeks accept - some, all or some - to collide with SYRIZA or not? What is your position, gentlemen of the Officerial Response, of the other opposition? Either way, another great struggle for Macedonia began today and will proceed to the end. On the 21st of the month, all Greeks, regardless of their party, should be at the rally of Thessaloniki and any other rally takes place anywhere in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. I would ask the next speaker, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to speak for seven minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u49	Let's lower the tons, Mr President. Let us move on to more practical and realistic issues. What do I mean? This bill, in my view, concerns individual rights, concerns the personal rights of the minority and I am very interested. I must honestly say that it is one of the bills that has dealt with me more than others, of a great extent, which may appear in the news as of greater concern. I therefore have some comments to make on this point, because I think we should count on the issues: the first issue is that after many years there is a step to be taken. I do not consider whether or not the religious sense of minority is diminishing, but I think we should see it in the context of the views of today's conditions. If the Government's intention is to implement this law, it will have to make some other arrangements. Why am I saying that? History has shown itself in the explanatory memorandum of the law that the old law of 1920 formally applied until 1991, the well-known provisional chief and mustards, but not until 1991. So the 1991 legislative act comes in order to take a first step. If it was not fully implemented it means that it also had weakness on the part of the Greek state. I will not go into heretics because all cases are brought under civil law to the regular court. If we are to remain in family law and we want to give individual rights in the application of family law to those who voluntarily fall under the jurisdiction of the moufit - and I am quoting on this point, because I have heard the Minister, who has said that in the last three years 70% of minority marriages have been religious, but I cannot control this, and I accept it as a given element, if he has been officially quoted - it means that there is a religious population who wants to maintain its religious traditions. But that's not good enough. And so the proposed law comes and tells us: a presidential decree will be issued. Then comes a legislative improvement and states that within 30 days the Minister may set up a scientific committee to move forward. I have heard the Minister's statement in his committee as quickly as possible. I will say this here, Minister, at the moment you are a government and you intend to deal with the issue of procedure. And procedural is protection and not protection of the impossible part, of the wife, of the child. If we let the issue of extradition of the Presidential Decree into government discrimination, whether it decides and when a government decides to promote a presidential decree, then we now come to the non-implementation of the law. And any intention of implementing the law is abandoned, because this presidential decree may also be the subject of political decisions. And why am I saying that? Because it will always be weighed if we give the rights that the parties are entitled to proceedings by means of procedural rules to be applied by the mosquito in the application of the sacred Muslim law or we will be slowing them down and we will leave the current situation, where there is discrimination - I will say it, we are in the distinction more than the mosquito what will apply - because the sharia, the sacred Muslim law in many is unrecorded, in many cases it is a tradition and we have no record. I therefore think that if you wish, Minister, to actually apply this law and to apply it within a period of time, because you have kept and without prejudice to paragraph 4 of the proposed draft 'the validity of paragraph 4', namely, that the new arrangements will now be subject to the new arrangements, shall be commencing with the publication provided for in paragraph 4 of the Presidential Decree'. Therefore, you reserve the right to choose the time when the Presidential Decree is promoted. I don't want that. Personally, I have tabled an amendment to which I am referring: if we want legal certainty, if we want to ensure individual rights, a deadline should be set within which the Presidential Decree can be adopted, so that the law can also be enacted. If you're judging it's progress, the law must activate it. I therefore believe that an annual deadline is sufficient. Because if the Scientific Committee is working, it will be working on its proposals, it will go to the Council of State to undergo legislative and effective control in the preparation of the Presidential Decree and in time above you will apply the law. If not, let us remain undetermined in the distinction between the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education. So does the law provide rights or does it not? Does it ensure the mother, the minor, or did we just say so to hear that we're bringing a provision? Well, at this point I want to be persistent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] My second point - and I shall briefly, Mr President - is the issue, which is raised by the Scientific Service of the House, for possible codification of the law applicable in the Member States. Here the question arises: should the President-in-Office precede the order and application of procedural rules and then come to the codification of substantive provisions or do the opposite? My view is that to come to codification - the substantive provisions I am referring to - we must first have the application of the procedural provisions in order to draw up the findings. In other words, what and how many essential provisions need to be recorded. I note and acknowledge the impossibility that substantial provisions of traditional law cannot be applied and recorded, without any preparation, because as many of us speak of customs law, customary law is usually not possible to codify. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minimum tolerance, Mr President. I think that on this point you must stand, Minister. I raise the third issue, and I close it. Verification of the constitutionality of the judgments of the mufit, on the part of the Judge of the Court of First Instance. It is true that in order for the judgments of the mosquito to be enforced, they must be put under the suffering of the ordinary judge. Otherwise, there is a possibility that we may also have issues of constitutionality, which I do not think anyone wants, at least at the moment, to hurt them or to employ them. Well, I heard opinions, which unraveled me. I have heard the opinion that European human rights conventions should be applied. But when we invoke the Constitution in the 1991 law, we have all included it, because it is part of national law that is international conventions and even has superlegislative power. I have also heard the opinion - and it regretted me, I have to say - that there is no legal instrument, whereas the 1991 law provides for recourse to the multi-dimensional court of first instance. Therefore, there is a second degree of control and, in addition, there is a third degree, if you wish, for us lawyers, that is to say, there is also an appeal in favour of the law in Marios Ice from the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, which is not excluded from this provision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And to be amazed I have heard the view that the prosecutor should also intervene. To be called and must, I have heard, include a provision in the law, to be notified of the document to the prosecutor. In any event, it is entitled by the Judge to whom the application is made, by way of a notice of formal notice, to notify the Advocate-General and to summon him as the party to the proceedings. If we start to curtail, to meditate, to give the image that we are improving the law, then I am sorry, but I will tell you about this law - for which I personally think it gives me a step forward and I am interested, that, in any case, our fellow Muslims in Western Thrace should be a more active part of the Greek society, being the living part of the region there, because it is of interest to all of us." I think that with these remarks I have exhausted what I could say. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mrs. Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u51	Happy New Year to all, with health, creativity and offering to our people! Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to convey a completely different time in relation to the previous speeches, mainly based on the legal part of this bill and this initiative. Today is a very important, historical day, I would say, not only for Thrace and its inhabitants, but also for modernising our institutional and legal system. However, the reality for many is unknown, and that is also apparent from the positions here, but also from our discussions with the rest of the citizens. Do you know, therefore, that there is an area in Greece, where some citizens are not protected by the law, is not everyone equal to the law? Do you know that in some area some women do not have rights similar to men, but neither do they? Do you know that children are not protected in this area, are there not provisions on gender equality and equality of citizens? Do you know that minor girls are forced to marry regardless of their will, that the family and hereditary differences of these citizens are not regulated by the rules of law, but by religious rules? Do you know that some of our fellow citizens are not entitled to appeal to the Greek courts rather than tried by a religious leader? In civil law matters, that is, a muft who has no legal knowledge, is appointed by a decision of the Minister of Education and is a mere civil servant. They shall also be tried without compulsory lawyers or lawyers, and often women's parties are not even invited to be heard. This area is Thrace, and it is the only region in Greece, but also in Europe, where the sharia is still being applied today, creating a problematic situation not only at the level of citizens' rights, but also at the level of development of the region and of local communities. Do not surprise you all these questions I have raised, because for most of these issues they are still unknown. Thrace many times, for years, has been treated as an unfamiliar, curious, away from the center, an area that seems to have its own rules, its own laws. An area of special handling, as we often hear about our land from the centers of Athens. In this Thrace, then, is still the case today, regulating Greek Muslims issues of everyday life, gender relations, family and hereditary issues. These regulations, however, are not the same for all citizens and do not fall under the rule of law of the Greek state. We are therefore faced with a regime which brings women into a lower position, without rights. It removes the right to custody of children, to claim nutrition, to claim inheritance, to present its own law. It maintains the woman in a hostage regime in the wishes of the husband and in the opinion of a mute. In this context, minor children are not fundamentally protected, but even among children gender inequality is evident. The implementation of the sharia tramples three very basic constitutional principles, gender equality, child protection, fair trial. The Greeks are equal before the law. Greeks and Greek women have equal rights and obligations. This empowers our Greek Constitution to paragraph 4, but not to all of them. One would rightly wonder how it is possible in the same country to have two measures and two standards for the application of the law, creating two categories of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in Thrace, unfortunately, there are women without a voice with the blessings of the law. In Thrace some women have been imprisoned in the past, forced to be subject to an anachronistic theocratic regime far from our European western culture. In recent years, in these communities, high rates of mental illness and high use of psychopharmaceuticals have been recorded. The rates of domestic violence and abuse of women and children are also high in that region. But even if a woman wants to get away from a situation like this, Sharia doesn't allow it. It's in the judgment of a mute. But is this all random? No, of course not. In Thrace for many decades a regime has been maintained for the reproduction of policies against the minority, against the individual and human rights of our fellow citizens, but also against the interests of our region. Although our legal system is particularly modern in Greece, the provisions relating to the minority are very slow. Despite the fact that we have recently had a number of wrongdoings, such as political marriage, family law, the Sharia regime has not changed. Minority has never joined them. The maintenance of a status of local society and citizens of low education, but also of a living level, a regime of fear and oppression, a misguided situation of the violation of individual rights, of anachronism and of preservation, has unfortunately led to several political, local and religious rulers. Several have attempted to control minorities for the benefit of political pursuits and economic opportunities. Many maintained a condition of dependence - moral, labour, economic, family. Let us not forget that until 1991 many areas, inhabited by Greek Muslims, were separated by bars with the inscription: 'Region under surveillance'. Passing through was a passport in our own country. Unfortunately, the application of the sharia for over a century is based on a suspicious state tolerance. The violation of human rights is based on a guilty silence. Sharia hides behind an argument of respect for the customs and customs of the Muslim minority. Really, since when is a woman's abuse considered a custom? Since when is the loss of your children, the loss of your property considered a custom? Ladies and gentlemen, we in Thrace know very well what it means to live together different cultures. Talking in different languages, working together, partying together at fairs, dancing hand to marriages, respecting, enjoying, living the customs and customs of all communities. That's our everyday life, anyway. That is why the consistent claim in Thrace is the equal treatment of all Greek and Greek citizens regardless of the god we believe in. We all demand that we all enjoy the same rights in infrastructure, in water, in road, in speech, in work, in development, in health and in education. We are fighting for exactly the same rights and obligations towards the state. We demand equality against the law. That is why I think today is a historic day in the Greek Parliament for our Thrace. Today we are taking the first and most important step. However, much more is expected in a direction of social upheaval to the minority, but also to all the citizens of Thrace. Nothing is independent. We owe it to the Thracians. We owe it to the new generation for what we stole from them and for what we deprived them. For all these reasons, therefore, I am very proud to be involved with my presence and my vote at this historic moment. And I am pleased that SYRIZA has brought this change, justifying many years' struggles and recognising at the same time the diversity and equality of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Javarra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, hearing many of the majority Members referring to the history of today's day, I am concerned that, together with the great words, there is also a awareness that, through these parliamentary legislative work procedures, what remains in history is a legal regulation, which is nothing but recognition, alignment, formulation of the content of social life in such a way that it agrees with basic values, to those values that the Minister mentioned earlier. However, these values which you have referred to, Mr Minister, are a few. There are some other values that from the course of the struggles that humanity has made, at least in Europe and in the civilised world, for better and fairer life have the character of self-worth. Such illusions are human rights. I have already listened to the colleague who has been washing an obedience to the fact that in this country there is a state organisation and a state history like this, at least after the dictatorship, and proud to live in a democratic life, in a life that respects the basic values of the Enlightenment project at a time when all things should have an impact on ideas of justice and equality. That is what our fellow citizens of Thrace demand is is isology and isopolitical. And I ask you, Minister: do you feel that you have fulfilled your obligation in full? Because, yes, we in the New Democracy are saying that we are voting for this bill, because it really improves what was before, but it does not complete the protection that must exist towards the people concerned, to our fellow citizens, with regard to the issues that have to do with parity and equality. For the first time, therefore, the European Court of Human Rights on the occasion of the 1998 decision of the Constitutional Court of Turkey to ban the operation of the Welfare Party of Erbacan dealt with the question of whether and whether the implementation of the Sharia is compatible with the values of human rights and, in particular, with the rules of the European Convention on Human Rights. There, for the first time, we have a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, where unequivocally it says that the Sharia is incompatible, it is completely inconsistent. It has nothing to do with respect for and the implementation of human rights, particularly those relating to gender equality, those relating to the protection of children and young people, those relating to respect for the family. A number of other decisions have led us today to realise the need for Greece to eliminate any function of theocratic perception of justice. But you, too, leave a big field open. And this is the consensual subjection to the sacred Muslim law of jurisdiction to regulate matters relating to spouses' personal relations, to the personal relations of parents with children, and most importantly to those aspects of hereditary succession that refer to public order, and to the protection of a close family. For these very specific forms of alignment or configuration with the application of the social relations law, there is one issue. Have you wondered whether it is permissible, under the Constitution and the legislation in force, or by consensus of the parties to appeal to a particular type of jurisdiction? This is forbidden, for precisely because the arbitration and the provision of Article 767 next which prohibits arbitration is being circumvented, as is the choice of the particular mushroom in order to justify these particular disputes. And that's why? Because a condition for consensual submission is the full power to distribute the subject matter of the dispute. From the moment that none of the parties have the right to free movement of their faces, to the freedom of movement for the rights to which they refer and to the programme and to the protection of the human rights of the European Convention on Human Rights, in this sense this particular provision is empty, and it is rather a deception of those to whom you are addressing the solemn declaration that today is a historic day. Oh, no! Today is not a historic day, because you have not dared to reach this regulation until the extreme consequences of accepting the full isology and equalisation of this portion of our fellow citizens, who I and all of us here recognise that they have not received the best treatment from the Greek state in the past decades. So what we need to do, and in which I really see an attempt, is to mitigate this very great, the strong contradiction that exists in the sacred rules, which are expelled from religion. They're not rules emanating from the law. And this two-stage, to which Mr Venizelos referred, which exists between the case-law of the Ice Arena and the case-law of the Council of State, leaves us no doubt that any judicial function of any religious leader in the single and single legal system, the Greek, is impossible, impossible, unacceptable and unforgivable. In this sense, therefore, there is - on all 6 December - the case of Hattie Mollah Sally, who turns against Greece, because he made a decision from the Areo Pagos that recognizes the specific method of succession that is emanating from the application of the sacred rules that Muslim religion has accepted. However, in this case it cannot be done by such applications, by such arrangements that human rights are violated. That is why the retrospective reference you make, which I consider to be important, to the fact that in any case no decision can be taken by any such body - which we have said cannot be judicial - to violate neither the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights nor the Constitution, is effectively abolishing, that is to say, unworthy of any recourse to the jurisdiction of the mushroom. Because you are doing so, since, in these cases, where we will indeed have a breach and a divergence from human rights, as they are protected by the European Convention on Human Rights, they will not apply, they will not be implemented and the specific decisions will not be recognised. So why don't you take the initiative, which is indeed a historical one, to say that all the citizens of this country, wherever they live, whatever they believe, wherever they come from, whatever colour or have, whatever their origins, whatever their classics, all of them should be subject to the one and the only jurisdiction laid down in Article 87 of the Constitution? Article 87 of the Constitution therefore requires that, within the limits of the Greek territory, citizens are subject to the jurisdiction of ordinary judges appointed by the State and enjoying full functional and personal independence. I think it should be your initiative, and in that sense I make these comments, precisely because I personally want to take part in an honest dialogue, a reference to which you have made, but you have made it in the sense that for you and for those who are currently feeding the government it is important for dialogue, when it excludes everyone who has the opposite view from what those who think it is official. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Javarra. We will proceed to the next speaker, who is Mr Anastasios Publicis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the recent visit of the President of the neighbouring country opened up a chapter for the government to deal with issues relating to the Muslim minority in Thrace. As he has done with other serious issues in the country, he is approaching carelessly and, if necessary, with serious, sensitive national issues. It cannot be said that the time chosen to do so with the expedited Minister of Education is not the right time, at the time when both the Vice-President of the Turkish Government and the Turkish President had planned visits to our country. Is that a coincidence? I don't think so, considering what's going on with the eight Turkish officers. Minister, it is your job to close issues and not possibly open new wounds in sensitive national areas such as Thrace, Kos and Rhodes. This has nothing to do with this draft law - whether or not it is in the right direction, as the speakers have pointed out so far from the New Democracy side - but with regard to the attitude you personally show to bring matters to the surface in a sudden way, showing that you sometimes have a secret agenda. But you, Minister, are not responsible for a secret diplomacy. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and sometimes also of the secret services. Nor is it your job to meet in secret with the Vice-President of the Turkish Government, without revealing the agenda of your discussions, even though we have repeatedly asked for details of your meeting as Civicism. And shortly after the Turkish President's visit, both you and the Prime Minister, you raise the issue of the election of mufts, which have intelligently double tasks, a question sensitive to the Muslim minority in Thrace, with potentially harmful consequences for our country. So you give the impression that you have a secret agenda for serious national issues in Thrace, while all this is dealt with only by national co-existence and co-responsibility and common position of the government, both within the government partners and in the opposition parties, and you are trying to take it a step, first with the question of the duties of the mufts, so that you can go to the serious issue of the election of them. The world of Thrace, which is an example of peaceful coexistence regardless of religion, is very concerned with the policies that you are implementing and, indeed, it tells us in any way, to us who come from Evros and the wider region of Thrace. You are ignoring and surpassing the role of falsemakers who are faithfully serving the extremist Turkish nationalist policy and the propaganda of the government of our neighbouring country in full harmony with the local consulate. We want the Turkish consulate to confine itself to the tasks of the Vienna Convention, which provides for the tasks, which are often violated. Such issues need exhaustive discussions and broad consensus rather than surprises and micro-political games for a few votes from the minority. Two Members' amendments have already been tabled today, which are particularly serious and want further investigation. You saw what went on with the so-called Xanthi Association and thankfully the government withdrew the amendment, because it took into account the speech made by MP Kavalas, Mr Panagiotopoulos, and thus corrected it on the best. If you want to deal with Thrace, you are interested in the Democritus University, which is a pillar of progress and development for the wider region. You, however, only use the Democratium to serve people and constantly degrade it with your choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u56	Who are the ‘lowests’?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u57	You voted, Minister, on a provision, which the teachers from the regional universities, after 15 years of attendance at the university where they were appointed, to have the right to move to the respective Athens and Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u58	Of all things!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u59	But you haven't predicted their replacement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u60	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u61	You say it in the law, which is clear. In other words, we now have more than fifteen in Thrace, who are asking for their transfer. Are you going to satisfy them? I have a proposal for you tomorrow with a written question: we ask a teacher, a beekeeper or a surf, who will fill a gap at the university, at the Department of Rural Development of Orestiad, in order to organise the sero-food laboratory, which we need. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, Soufly is a silk producer city and we want the university to enter the production process and to identify it with the local society and the entrepreneurship of all categories, so that we can have additional value from the university's work there. Will you establish a teacher's seat? I will ask you in writing tomorrow. We also have a complaint from the Thracian because you took the Teaching Minority Programme of Alexandroupolis from the Pedagogical Department and took it to Thessaloniki. What were the reasons for dictating this movement? Twice we submitted you, three Members of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, two written questions, one in June and the other in May. Unfortunately, you didn't answer us. You despise parliamentary control. We asked once again for a written question in the remembrance to be answered. Are you going to answer us? We, ladies and gentlemen, believe that a cross-party committee should be set up on the opposite side of what was set up in 1992 by the then government of Constantine Mitsotakis, because this inter-group committee has come up with a set of policies that all governments have implemented to date. This is the challenge for you, Minister of Education, to take all the steps to ensure that the Prime Minister and the Bureau of Parliament decide on the establishment of such a committee, which will really give a solution to all the problems, but it will also be the one which will show the way for every government to resolve all the problems that concern Evros and Thrace. Minister, I think it is not today's day that is important to you and the government, because all parties have been involved. Don't triumph. Don't take courage. The hard stuff is back. They're coming in soon. We are here and will monitor your steps and we will deal with the problems that really are major in Thrace. You must, as Minister of Education, every morning when you wake up and take duties in your office, think about what decisions you will make to shield Thrace, like the islands, in the way you need. That is what the Greek state has to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much Mr. Prussakis. He has the floor for Mr Ilhan Ahmet from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Before I speak about the bill, I would like to make a comment to the honourable Member. I think that part of solving the problems, especially of the minority, is not these committees, but Parliament. With legislative procedures and a debate between all the representatives of the people and the parties, we are here to resolve them. Mr President, Minister, I would like to express a few views, not only in the capacity of MP Rhodope, a minority in religion, but more as a lawyer - a lawyer, who I have on my back twenty years of active lawyer in Thrace, and I am dealing with this issue, whether or not, because we live every day in the problems of this region. First of all, I think - and here I agree with Mr Javarra - that this legislative initiative does not create a right. It simply interprets the existing law, the existing framework in a very good way and removes any dispute, which, of course, has been caused - and, in my view - by an incorrect approach to the Ice Bay. Of course, Mr. Venizelos analysed you, as a great lawmaker and professor, what was the cause of evil and how the whole case began. First of all, to be recorded in the minutes of this House, I should like to point out that after the establishment of the political marriage in 1980 - a leading process for our country - our Muslim fellow citizens in Thrace already had the right to choose political marriage and, since they had chosen civil marriage, they were clearly subject to the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts. So the term or term or exaggeration which has been heard in this Chamber, that it has already been exclusively jurisdiction, etc., is not, in principle, legal and social. Yes, Minister, I would like to inform you that to such an extent it is that it can be 70% in Rhodope to 30%, that is 70% in religious marriages and 30% in politicians, but in Xanthi it is upside down. In any case, however, after 1982, things are different. What's this bill doing now, and why did it happen? A decision was adopted by the Marios Igos, who - apart from what Mr Venizelos said, if this right, namely to appeal before a priesthood, is enshrined in the Treaty of Lausanne, etc. - he also made another mistaken approach. First of all, as far as I am concerned, I should like to say my opinion. The Treaty of Lausanne in Article 42 may not speak of sharia - and it does not speak clearly of the sharia - nor of the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts or of the judiciary, and that, of course, is clear. But he's talking, he's saying something. What's he saying? That the Greek Government, on the other hand, must protect the customs and personal customs of Muslims in Greece, who refer to their personal and family situation. He doesn't have to. It was a matter of interpretation. I totally agree with Mr. Venizelo. But it's not completely in the air. This obligation for protection came the legislator to cover with the 1990 bill, which was what I said. But they came after the courts, and especially the Marios Ice, who, in my humble opinion, made a terrible mistake. He said in his decision that according to Sharia, both Hattie and all these Islam lawmakers, no Muslim can draw up a covenant. That's a mistake over there. We all know that a covenant can be drawn up in Islam, ladies and gentlemen, with limitations on one third, but not that it has no right to draft any covenant. So the decision of the Ice Marios suffered from this interpretation and the interpretation of Islam and was to ask for an opinion from the Institute or from the legislature and to ask whether a Muslim can finally draw up a covenant. But, good or bad, we're here. This bill is a positive development. It solves the hands of the courts, clears the scenery in Thrace. It was my initial view and I as a lawyer. For years I have said that we need to apply the existing competence for only one reason before the abolition of this transitional period, in order to respect this article, to respect this specificity and to give the opportunity, whether through the arbitration that Mr Venizelos said or in this form, to strengthen the judiciary situation. So now we're going to another matter. But since, by law, we are keeping this particular feature of religious marriage, that is to say, that two Muslims can be subject to the sharia, to customary law - in in introductory terms the word - must not have any articles, to have any provisions in the existing bill to protect them further, five, ten, thirty people, who would like to make an Islamic marriage? Here I think, Mr Minister, that you have also been put before the committee, and our rapporteur has said so again, and we have also given you our views on the two committees - that you need to regulate the matter of the mixer. You cannot allow this because it will be destroyed by some men who want to escape from their obligation to the woman, to pay compensation as long as they themselves have undertaken to pay, and if they are under a private contract. In any case, it is a private contract between men and women. Something else now. You should know that this whole issue is of interest to the minority, but it is not a long story - and all the evils of the minority, as Mrs Gara from Evros said - that this bill cleanses everything and ensures equality and equality in the minority and that it gives a solution to all the unemployed, the suicides, the psychological problems of women, because there was this'scheme' - in in introductory terms the word of the Sharia. Let's not be fooled. It was a problem, but not at that level. The question is what will happen with the display of mufts and what will happen with their choice? I think we need to clarify this issue here. First of all, I, ten years ago, adopted the view that we should be separating the court from the muft. That was my fixed seat. Today it has been heard by Mr Venizelos, and especially by myself, I am very pleased to hear him because, in my humble opinion, this is the correct route. In other words, we go to total dismantling, but on the other hand, we do not allow the institution to be lost. In other words, we are making the institution of evil. We have a judge under all the conditions of the law, of the Constitution, now under arbitration. I also understand Mr Javarra's objections as being legitimate that arbitration cannot be made in matters relating to personal rights, but may, on the basis of Article 42 of the Treaty, go there. But, ladies and gentlemen, in any case, this issue must be resolved. I think that the emergence, the choice of a mute, a religious leader who will deal only with his religious duties, is the overall choice and pursuit of the minority. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this should be over. There can be no double standards in Thrace. As long as this problem is perpetuated, as long as it exists there, and it is not solved in a way that the believers themselves want to solve, I think there are other problems, at least in the area that make it difficult to coexist with the two elements. I would like again, Minister, to take account of both the rapporteur's recommendations and my own proposals. As for the amendment tabled by Mr Venizelos - although you have already made progress with Article 4 on those who will make religious marriages more legal guarantees for inspection - we agree, but I think that there is also the 1990 Act and what was contained in constitutional control. If it did not happen or if there were any mistakes, this is due to our own muffinations. I mean, we have to do a self-criticism too. If, in other words, some things have escaped from our own prostitutes, i.e. from the people who are there from our religion, it is not for this Islam. Here it was heard that seven years old girl married in Thrace. These are not, ladies and gentlemen. This is where all Europe is listening. A seven-year-old girl never got married in Thrace. A single marriage case existed of a fourteen-year-old girl, 15, I think by myfitis Xanthis, who is known for his opinions and positions. It happened once and badly. But, from there on, it cannot be heard in the Greek Parliament that seven years old girls are getting married, etc. We would also like to take account of the proposals made by the institutions here, Minister. The association of scientists and the club of priests, all institutions, have submitted some suggestions to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Mr Zabek Hussein has the floor now from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Mavrotas, the Parliamentary Representative from Potami. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am very happy to take the floor for this legislative initiative, since the bill is partly a vindication for the Left, which has been in stable positions for the abolition of the sharia. We are still in this position, and although we think that we are taking half a step, even that is a good thing, because it also ensures those who want to preserve the sharia and those who choose the Civil Code. And that is because before the law, the whole family and hereditary life of the citizens was determined by the way the marriage was completed, in which there was no right to choice. In our country, officially, the political marriage was implemented in 1982. This, like other positive measures, has been slow to reach a minority, since its implementation has begun after 1990. So the couples before 1990 followed the saria compulsory and not necessarily the assent of the couple. As a result, we had an unwritten law that was often accompanied by a non-substantiated hierarch who decides even without the presence of the couple, without lawyers, without the right to reassess the decision of the muft, which ultimately decides on their future without them. At other times, the decisions were mainly against women. Also, decisions are made in Ottomans, which interested parties cannot even understand what they mean. Many divorces were on the phone, while minor marriages were uncontrolled, causing episodes, as in Germany. I would also like to point out to my colleague that this was the case with the Komotini mute. This bill partially solves the diseases of the past, recognises gender equal rights and gives the right to a choice. After all, the mufties so far could not manage the cases as they should, because there was no proper legal support and organisation of the mufts, so that they would be brought to decisions which were unfair to either side and which were often exposed to our country's European courts. Of course, my personal opinion is that the Civil Code should apply, as is the case for all Greek citizens. For example, it is not possible to challenge and cancel wills drawn up in accordance with the Civil Code. As in the case of Turkey when Swiss law accepted its legal system in 1926, which applied to all universally, depending on Greece, in 1946, with the application of the Civil Code, the same laws should apply to all Greek citizens. The implementation of the parallel legal framework, i.e. the implementation in part of the Sharia, has caused serious problems which have led to convictions by the European Court of Human Rights and fines against our country. The ideal thing would be for such an important regulation not to come under the pressure of the rulings of the European Courts and the current operation of the mustards to function in a European country, which is not the case. Finally, we expect with great interest to see how the committee will be set up for the adoption of the presidential decree of the law. And I hope that there will be safeguards so that there will be no dealings with the decisions, that both the opinion of the man and woman will be heard, that the decisions will be made, apart from the Ottomans, in both Greek and Turkish, so that everyone understands the decision of the mufit. I would also ask that we openly exclude the custody of children from the judicial powers of the mufit and that a clear way be made of infringing the decisions of the mufit, when they are not accepted, and the way in which we go to second-degree decisions. In any case, both sides must be represented with their lawyers in order to ensure equal representation, and there must also be a full report of cases, but also public revenue and transparency throughout the whole process and decision-making. Especially in matters of hereditary law, I think it is self-evident that hereditary rights should not be called into question, as provided for in the Civil Code. In addition, the minority is very pleased that our Prime Minister has dared to open up a major problem which has been afflicting our minority and country for years. This is the question of the election of the muft. We, of course, are in favour of the election of mufts, as we see it as self-evident that each believer should be able to choose his religious leader indirectly or directly. This process will put an end to the deadlock that we are currently in, where we have appointed and elected mufts. Our view is that all members of the minority must have the right to vote or, if a electorate is decided, that must be the religious officials, imams, who are daily religious functions and commissions of the jams, elected by the faithful. It would also be advisable to set criteria for the nominated mute and specific term by merital procedures. It is a great opportunity to give a sustainable and acceptable solution to a major problem with the minority. All of this is intended to regain their lost authority and to be able to trust them again. In a completely different direction, the opposition is moving. It is true that in her last visit, Mrs Bakoyannis, these days in Xanthi, said that the agenda of the New Democracy does not include the issue of their election. Of course, this does not surprise us, since the New Democracy has never had a clear agenda for minority issues. We also heard our local MPs, especially Evros. Unlike these, we dare to open the debate on all the issues relating to the minority, with the ultimate aim of stopping its deadlocked isolation policies. Also a relatively simple issue to be solved, in relation to the mouses, is the election of the Vakuf Committees. We are seeking democracy, transparency and dignity here, which is why we are proposing the election of the management committees, the appointment of their terms of reference and the supervision of their financial legitimacy and functioning. It is a problem that starts again with the previous governments. Mrs Bakoyannis's law in 2008, a law with shortcomings, objections and without a prior consultation, instead of solving the problem, became part of the problem. In conclusion, this bill that we are bringing today gives us hope and courage that it is the first step towards the overall resolution of the problems of the minority. Now, it is the opportunity of the left government to give its own signal to issues that are not related to the economy, but to religious freedoms that have been afflicting citizens so many years. This will also give the message to the minority members that they are also first-class citizens of this country with equal treatment in the legal system. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. That is why I believe that all democratic political forces must contribute so that this great opportunity and this historic moment must not be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u66	I am very grateful to Mr Mavrotas, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami. Here, Mr Mavrotas, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to start by saying 'Happy years' and 'Happy year' to all my fellow Members. This draft law is in the right direction, although it does not come to an end. It is a transitional stage, that is, we are halfway through a gradual transition to the framework. The optionality of the sharia, i.e. its application to the judicial panel only when all interested parties consent, is to be regarded as a first interim step. In a liberal state, the implementation of the Sharia is a violation of constitutional principles, such as those of fair trial, gender equality, the supremacy of the child's interests. The government displays the draft law as an innovation that comes to transform an obligation into a right. It is reasonable, however, to ask whether the government is being dragged behind developments once again and is legislating in view of the imminent Greek right to a Muslim resident in Thrace to the European Court of Human Rights. On 6 December the Court of Justice of the European Court of Justice discussed the case of Hattie Mollah Sali, a resident of Rhodope, a well-known case with the husband's will, the sisters of the deceased who invoked Sarah, etc. Marios Ice ruled for the brothers in 2015, but the case went to the European Court of Human Rights and pending the judgment. That is why changing the legislative framework is necessary, even in the medium-sized way under this draft law. Let me also mention what Mr Karras said earlier and also proposed a special amendment when the presidencies provided for in paragraph 4b are to be adopted. Why not set deadlines for the adoption of presidential decrees and ministerial decisions? Not to establish specific timetables, I am sorry, but it is to be seen that provisions that throw the ball into the lane are being passed. There are laws which do not apply, precisely because there are no presidential decrees and ministerial decisions. And just because the legislator does not commit the administration to specific deadlines, so we end up in endless laws. So the question is when will we have this presidential decree, what is the reasonable time? The thirty days to which the Minister referred in committee? How are they going to get into a timeline so we can get the presidential decree ready? This is about the Sharia legislation. However, let me address both of the three issues of topical and urgent subjects of major importance. And I cannot help talking about the Turkish soldiers who have asked for asylum. This seems to have gone wrong from the beginning, when the Prime Minister was raped to give assurances to Mr Erdogan under the pressure of the events. In regimes, however, that consider justice to be part of the executive power, you must not give them the appetite. The issue of non-issuance in Turkey has been permanently closed, I hope. The issue of asylum is under way and I hope that we do not see images like yesterday's arrest of the officer through the Asylum Service, for reasons of public interest. The possibility that it has been heard of extradition in a third country, resurrecting Ocalan memories, I hope it is just an imaginary scenario and not a real possibility, a choice that is being studied. But we must admit that, on external issues, everything is not always clear. That is why we must not be fond of them any further, such as, for example, the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. And here the positions are blurred when two lines are drawn up in the government. The Prime Minister, Mr Kammenos, who has confidence in the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, hopefully does not have a third line of his own - but has speeded up the first stop in the name of the name after almost three whole years of salt. I'm explaining. On 8-2-2015 Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras said - and this is one of the Minutes -: "It is also important to find in talks under the United Nations a mutually acceptable solution to the difference for name with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the basis of a complex name, by geographical determination for all uses". Following this statement by the Prime Minister, in the next two days of the programming statements Mr Kammens spoke twice, one as Chief of ANELs and one as Minister of National Defence, and he did not say a word about the Macedonian tambacier. So why the silence then and the cry now? Why has he not objected since then? Not listening to this explicit statement by Mr. Tsipras, it seems to me difficult. It's just power and chair sometimes impose implicity. If you would like me, he chose to react with almost three years of delay by making bets, as usual, on populism and on patriocapacy as an opportunity for party coexistence. Even his MPs began talking about a majority of tenderness. The solution, however, requires national responsibility from everyone. And it's not just the name. There are also the alutronic views found in the Constitution, the books and several others. If the intransigence has indeed left and there is, on the part of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the willingness to make concessions, we must not lose the opportunity to take this thorn out. Otherwise, the thorn will be there and it will be mischief. It is therefore an opportunity to overturn our burdens on the issue of the name of the neighbouring country as 'Macedonia'. The new name does not forget that it will be for all uses and, today, over a hundred countries have recognized the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia under its constitutional name and among them three permanent members of the Security Council, England, China and Russia. If we refuse after this retreat and the lifting of the Skopje's intransigence, we will lose the opportunity to normalise our relations with the neighbouring country, to close a front, to open up new prospects for economic cooperation. However, our credibility at diplomatic level will be lost, as we will be regarded as the 'flavoured child', with the result that many countries which have not recognized the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as Macedonia re-examine their position. In essence, those who say 'no use of the term Macedonia' are finally pushing on the use of the exclusive term 'Macedonia' by all. This lack of credibility may cost us other diplomatic fronts that we have opened up. For these reasons, the two government partners should not put such an important issue in the field of micropolitical, populism and opportunism. Bad manipulations can kill any good intentions that seem to exist to solve a chronicly important problem. So the ball's on the government's field no matter how hard it's trying to kick it in the counterpopulation field. In conclusion, the issue of the name is a very serious matter to leave it to the government's extreme right hand. It closes here the parenthesis and we are talking about good design, to rejoice a little, let me say that at cutting the pie on the Ministerial Council the day before yesterday we understood that the planning of the prioritisation in the digital design of the Ministries is done at random, depending on whom the king's flush will fall. On the one hand, you talk about a casino economy, referring to neoliberalism, and on the other, there is a "flori" digitisation in the definition of the priorities for the digitisation of the ministries. I just hope that this is not your main strategy on other issues. I close with the bill of six hundred pages and four hundred articles with the prerequisites of the third evaluation, which we will have in Parliament tomorrow. If the staff level regulation had been closed, as Mr Tsakalotos said at the beginning of December, why did it take a month and a half to get the bill to Parliament, on the eve of the Eurogroup to make it all'spray, wipe, finish', to prevent dates? You will tell me this is a prerequisite and not a question. In other words, they are decisions which have been discussed between government and institutions and which simply want the legislative 'consultation'. To accept this, but do you want to do your self-criticism, we haven't heard of it? Your self-criticism for the times, when the previous ones with fast track procedures like this, you were going to go up to the bars and talk about junkers and germans. Did you finally understand? Did we all finally understand that the dead-end coconut battles and their "or ending or ending" are the ones that set us up? When other countries, such as Cyprus, Ireland, Portugal, escaped the blockages of populism and polarization, they already began to breathe. Because we must finally understand that as much as populism and polarization are gaining ground, the more Greece loses opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much Mr. Mavrota. Please, let Mrs. Alonitou come.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u70	You're welcome, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like to speak for two reasons. The first shall be on staff and the second shall be on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u72	On staff, how did it come about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u73	On personal grounds, the Parliamentary Representative of the River said two things. He said that Panos Kammenos and the Independent Greeks, to whom I belong, are in power for the chair. And second of all, he talked about national moderation, photographing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u74	You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u75	So he confirms it. So you could give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u76	Good, please for a minute. Mrs. Alonitou, will you excuse us for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u77	As far as the procedure is concerned, Mr President, not by reproaching your face, because you are presided over, and all your colleagues have done the same, they have left the speakers, whether they were rapporteurs or were Parliamentary representatives, to escape from today's debate and which is no longer the amendment to Article 5 of Law 1920/1991. So, so that I am not in a difficult position, and perhaps everyone will take the floor to deal with these kinds of issues, which are escaping from the agenda debated in plenary - it would be a good thing if this procedure were followed. Now I'm going on staff. I would like to say to my colleague Mr Mavrota that if I and my colleagues, in particular the President of the Independent Greeks, we wanted to serve the chair, power and not the Greek people, in 2015 we would not have resorted to the Greek people themselves in order to have the result of the popular verdict, where he trusted us for the second time. The second thing I want to say to him is that those who insist on the chair, seek it and want it are those whose party is falling apart, as is the case today on the Potami. They go to find another political roof and to be established, their Chief is running for him to become Head of the Democratic Partnership. That's what I wanted to say. So let's think next time he talks about a chair of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u78	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. Mr. Mavrota, here you go, please soon. To respect Mrs. Alonitou, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u80	Just for a minute, I can fix something to Mr. Katsiki who hasn't understood something that's been happening for a year. Mr. Theodorakis did not run for Head of Democratic Incorporation, but for the new body created in the former PASOK and the other forces, which are the Change Movement. This is a new body. It's not the Democratic Reconciliation. And secondly, as Mr Katsikis and Mr. Misunderstood is so saddened, he tells us why when Mr. Tsipras made the reference on 8 February 2015 for geographical identification and a complex name, Mr. Kammenos, like you, Mr. Katsiki, said a word and said it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u81	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u82	I would ask, however, that we do not open up this dialogue now. Mr. Black, please do not respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I want the floor because he's asking. And I apologise to Mrs Aylonite who is waiting to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u84	Please. Hurry up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u85	I'll just say two things. Firstly, many years had been said in our programme statements before Mr Tsipras made the statement. Second, at the November conference...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u86	Many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u87	Many years before that was said. So our programme declaration and our resolution were preceded by a conference of the Independent Greeks. As far as the majority of the reduction is concerned, if Mr Mavrosh feels a national broker, he should tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u88	Mrs Aylonitou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many years to all, good year, health, creativity and optimism for the future and prospects of this country. Today's bill, amending Article 5 of Law 1920/1991 in which the instrument of legislation on Muslim religious officials was ratified, raises the question of when a right ceases to be a right and whether it is an obligation. It is known that the Greek Muslim community of Thrace has the privileged right to implement the sacred Islamic law on cases of family and hereditary law. But is this right to obligation for our Muslim fellow citizens in Thrace? This question comes to answer today's bill and the answer is clear: 'No'. Exercise of the privileged right is not an obligation, but those who have the right choose whether they wish to exercise it. Thus, the members of the Greek Muslim community are now under Greek Civil Law, like all Greeks, but if all parties in a case of family law want to do so, they can, with an irrevocable request to the muft make their case subject to his jurisdiction. This figure suggests about as self-evident for the average man of our time. However, like all changes in family law, it is inevitably treated with some carelessness by well-predictable people of traditional mentality. The issue, of course, arises in cases where the opposition parties will not agree to the judicial authority and one of the two will feel that it is being dragged where it does not want to go. This new situation, however, will replace the current situation, where the other interested parties may feel that it is dragged somewhere that would prefer not to go. The resulting issue is not easily understood by the middle Greek, since in Orthodox Christian tradition the Church does not exercise judicial functions. So, whether you marry politically or religiously, you are subject to the same family law. In the Muslim community, however, others apply: the choice of political or religious marriage has prevailed to be a choice of applicable law. Changes of this kind always create in all communities, regardless of religion, a transitional period during which the legal consequences of older law remain valid for several years within the new regime. To be understood in this House, I would remind you of a word that for younger people it appears to belong to the ancient secretariat, the word 'pre-concordance'. Today you only hear it in some old Greek movie. For many years, however, after the abolition of the dowry, the obligations stemming from former privileges were legally strong. I imagine that in such a spirit the Greek civil courts will judge and the obligations arising from a relatively prenup of an Islamic marriage. Mr Minister, I do not know whether the provisions of the bill adequately cover these cases. But please, if you want to comment on the matter. In hereditary law, a classic urban approach is followed. The holder shall decide which right to be applied. Once again, current Civil Law is seen as a self-evident basic option and the choice of the Sharia is made by a mere notarial act. This act may be revoked, but of course the two laws cannot be mixed. All this should not, however, give the impression that we consider traditional Muslim law to be lower than the current one in our country of European Civil Law, which is in the payouts of the Greek-Roman. A legal system that has been in place for over a thousand years and still in force in many countries cannot be considered to be lower. We believe, however, that current civil law is more appropriate for the needs of our times. We therefore want the benefits of being at the disposal of all our fellow citizens, regardless of their religious convictions. However, those who, Greek Muslims, have a different view of the subject, with a simple signature in their muft, remain in their tested, respected and - if they will - applied to their sacred Islamic law. Of course, I am voting in favour of this draft law which, unfortunately, was so late to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much Mrs Alonitou. Please very much the next speaker from SYRIZA, Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, to come to Stepa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been extensive comments on the legislative construction that we are debating today and on top of well-established lawyers, in a way, leading to the debate on the legal dimension of the matter. I will try to propose another side, that in the case of the Sharia we have a survival, a pre-modern survival, and the contradiction it is organising, which is the customary law against European law and the regulations as they have been incorporated into Greek laws and as culturally incorporated into Greek law. This asymmetry isn't the only one. Countries are not solid, especially in tolerant democratic conditions such as Europeans, have legal stratifications, attitudes and therefore have the potential to coexist with different forms of behaviour and law or deviate, sometimes. However, the tendency, at least to a certain extent, of Europe to unite and vote for these customary survivals, I think, gives us an open society, as we know it and the way we want it. So the reverse happens in the Treaty: we are starting to see reverse trends. From the process of unification to a single - let us say - regulatory reality, we are going towards the survival or revival of superiors, behaviours of different kinds or symbolisms that are of special importance and of great importance. There is an ID, an anguish of social registration in the new Europe. A lot of people are afraid that we are going towards a dismantling process. I think it's a maturation process. The mature modern one does not necessarily collide with tradition or with the customary legacy. The mature modern, in which we are supposed to plant or seek or reconstruct, is related to the assimilation, the organic connection of the traditional word, as the late Kostis Moskov would say, to modern reality. In these circumstances, therefore, this even partial step, as everyone has identified, which is attempting to do with the bill, I think it is of great functionality, an excellent importance, precisely because we have a dismantling, dismantling of this unified demand that has been formulated and matured in the 1990s and 2000s in the European area. In this sense, therefore, it promotes without indifference to receive a national legacy and to integrate it into the modern possibilities of freedom, namely modern, mature forms of law. I would therefore not degrade it as part of what it should be, a total ban, as several speakers have implied, with perhaps a more structured or detailed position of this Mr Venizelos earlier. So I think that in this treaty we should make such a criticism. I would enrich it, I would combine it with a testimony put forward by our colleague Mrs Gara, who has given us the scope, to what reality this legislative treaty comes to answer: in a reality, where women's position, like the property identity, is not at all self-evident, where there are no instruments and tools, and the gender position and cultural connection between them and their ownership are not self-evident, they are claimable. On this, then, the field of a special anachronism I think the bill can work. He can play his beneficial role. But there is another side - I've heard it several times - which is that the truth finally comes from life itself. The communities themselves, i.e., the societies of Thrace, I would say in general the diversity of societies that are created today, both in the Greek and in the European area, have the room to vote, they have the margin - I think - to assimilate and have the margin to integrate the most advanced aspects of freedom, namely the law, the regulatory codes with which we can coexist as a society and not to live in the war conditions that our economic system is pushing us. With these considerations, I know that I may have moved away from the points of criticism of law or from the points of view of a general political assessment of the country's foreign policy and the way it is internationalised, but I think that in such a direction it could also find the elements of the legislative power and the elements of the power with which society will receive the legislation and vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Sevastakis. The next speaker from SYRIZA Mr Stoyannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to place myself on a intersection that comes with the motion for a resolution as an addition to the law on the competences of Muslim religious officials, which is a crucial democratic step for the benefit of the country in general and the Muslim minority in particular. This step is taking place with full respect for the religious faith and traditions of the Muslim minority in Thrace. Since 1882 the Greek state has recommended positions of centrally appointed and state-paid mufts, which it recognized not only as religious leaders of their communities, but also as public officials, with advisory powers on all matters of religious, hereditary or family law of the mosques. After the end of the Balkan Wars the Treaty of Athens was concluded, which was ratified by law in 1913, and which explicitly provided for the institution of mufti not only as a religious leader, but also as a priesthood. Subsequently, the conditions created at the end of World War I and in particular in view of the signing of the Treaty of Serbs led to the adoption of Law 2345/1020 'About temporary chiefist and mufts of Muslims and the management of the properties of Muslim communities'. This law, in addition to other organizational provisions for mushrooms, their services, laid down that mufts, other than purely religious duties, exercised jurisdiction among Muslims on marriages, divorces, diets, commissions, guardianships, juvenile manipulations of minors, Islamic covenants and non-responsible succession, while they had consultative authority on all matters of religious, hereditary, family of immigrant law. After the Asia Minor disaster, the Treaty of Lausanne was concluded, which provided that minorities' issues were dealt with in accordance with their customs, while in our country Law 2345/1920, which was formally in force, was not incompatible with the obligations of that Treaty. This law was expressly repealed in 1991 by Law No. 1920/1991, which ratified by 24-12/1990 an act of legislation on Muslims, religious workers and the provisions of which essentially reiterated the legislation in force. Therefore, since 1920 in Thrace, the provisions of national domestic law of Law 2345/1920 and more than Law 1920/1991, which permit the implementation of the sacred Muslim law, apply. However, much has come up with strong reflection at scientific, legal, political and social level. Concern was raised about the compatibility of certain arrangements of the sacred Muslim law with the Constitution and the European acquis of human rights, such as the compulsory application of the sacred law, the extent of the territorial jurisdiction of the muft, the underlying persons in this act and the legal basis, the foundation of its arrangements. This has turned into legal uncertainty over time, while the implementation of the sharia has led to social inequality and injustice. There are a large number of examples of marriages of minor girls without asking their will, unilateral marriage solutions without the right to nutrition, cases of hereditary cases that blatantly unfair wives and daughters. In this case, the Greek state can no longer have the role of a mere observer nor can the burden of resolving important issues about the daily lives of Greek citizens be blamed for the fact that it is not equipped with appropriate legislative tools at the same time. The device to be voted clears the existing blurred landscape. With the proposed provision, therefore, it is definitively clear that the implementation of the provisions of the sacred Muslim law on members of the Thrace minority is optional. This is without changing the institutional and dual role of the motto, who remains a religious minister and a priesthood, while the motto continues to be a public service. The responsibilities of the mosquito are not limited, but are still unchanging. However, its powers shall be exercised only if there is no objection and refusal by any of the parties to the proceedings. This provides that the parties to the proceedings will be subject to the jurisdiction of the mosquito either individually or at the joint request of the parties to resolve a particular dispute at all times. Also, procedural rules are in place for the first time. The application must contain the particulars of the supporting documents in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in order not to call into question the identity of the parties and the subject-matter of the dispute and to allow judicial review. The application is filed at the mooring and receives a deposit date and a date of discussion of the case, unlike the current ones, which the muft does not define in advance explicit courts. In addition, in order to remove any doubt as to legal certainty from any misunderstandings as to the consequences of that choice, an express declaration by the party concerning the choice of that jurisdiction must be incorporated into each request. To that end, the request shall be signed by the parties and their proxy lawyers or only by the latter, if they are equipped with a special proxy, which must have been issued in the last month prior to the signature of the request. It is understood that, in the absence of consensus, the case is not brought before the Court of Justice, but is not the case, without the dispute being pending and excluding the ordinary courts from the litigation of the same dispute. Furthermore, for the first time it is expressly foreseen that subjecting the case to the jurisdiction of the muft is irrevocable, so this case is being tried and regulated exclusively in the sacred Muslim law and excludes the jurisdiction of the regular courts for this dispute. If, again, any of the parties does not wish the case to be brought under the jurisdiction of the mosquito, it may bring the proceedings before the courts in accordance with the common substantive and procedural provisions, which in any event have the presumption of jurisdiction. This provision establishes legal certainty. So far the automatic submission of minority members to the sacred Muslim law, which has prevailed many times even despite the opposing will of the owner, has been abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Members of the minority now, if they wish to submit to the sacred Muslim law and its predictions, must make an explicit statement thereon. That is a simple statement. It does not require any specific formal or content and does not require any legal knowledge. Furthermore, this option does not bind the holder irrevocably, who, at a later date, may withdraw the declaration and thus be subject to the ordinary law and provisions of the Civil Code. Ladies and gentlemen, with the order to be adopted, this is being transferred from the level of abolition of the sacred Muslim law and the subsequent impairment of the mouft's institution to the level of safeguarding the ability of members of the Muslim minority in Thrace to now be able to choose the law applicable to their disputes. A number of problems are solved by voting and rationalising a regime that puts minority to the fore. In this provision, injustices and inequality will be restored to most children and women. We want the implementation of the Muslim law to be the right and choice of the members of the minority and not the obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Stoyannides. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today on the non-compulsory application of the sharia and the introduction of its voluntary application in matters of family and hereditary law is an important bill, not because it is a step in the defence of human rights or, more specifically, a step towards the safeguarding of minority rights and ultimately the practical respect for the Muslim minority in Thrace, which is an integral part of our society, but because the bell is strong in the political system, in Greek society for the need to finally develop and implement an integrated and substantial policy on minorities, especially now that the intense migratory flows are further changing the face of the Greek society, making multicultural, religiously differentiated. That is why we have to look beyond this legislative intervention. It is clear that sharia cannot be the basis of the jurisprudence of a modern European state. To this end, the current legislation is a positive step, so that we differentiate the system in such a way that there are no two or more conflicting legal systems, but also at the same time guaranteeing respect for minority rights, non-discrimination, equal rights for all citizens, rights arising from the Constitution and international conventions. The introduction of non-compulsory application, the right to choose the Greek Muslims of Thrace between civil law and saria is a step in the right direction. The optional rather than compulsory recourse to the mufit on matters of family and hereditary law, only when the parties concerned agree and apply for this, is a contribution to this very direction. It is also right to provide for the resolution of disputes by civil courts in the event of disagreement. There are, of course, a number of issues that need to be dealt with in the process. It is a sensitive issue and this legislation must go smoothly with European practices. However, we should look very carefully at a number of issues, such as, for example, the adoption of the Presidential Decree on the procedural procedures to be followed by the mushrooms. In addition, what security barriers do there exist for the application of the law? Will it be affected by the judgment of the Court of Justice? We must look at these issues very carefully. We will support this legislative initiative. But it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that over time there is the problem of the effective integration of minorities and, more specifically, of the Muslim minority. It is not a few times that a short-sighted policy has been followed, which has increasingly pushed the minority towards Ankara. Now what is your government doing? What is the integration policy that follows? Because it is not about following or preventing the judgments of the European Court of Justice and running behind the facts. And that is a time-consuming problem, not only is it about your government and you personally, Minister, but how we resolve these issues over time. I have heard you say, for example, that the arguments in favour of the abolition are reasonable. The arguments in favour of the continuation of this scheme you said that these too are reasonable. The arguments put forward by this transitional provision you said that these too are reasonable. But the essence is what we want to do as a country. And today this is a transitional step. However, this can only be linked to other issues which have emerged in recent years. So there must be a comprehensive, comprehensive planning so that we can move faster steps into this process. Where am I talking? The announcement of the non-mandatoryness of the Sharia, which came in the face of the appeal against Greece to the European Court of Justice, if you really wanted it to be a deep democratic reform and a step forward in modernising the Greek society, should be accompanied by other measures that would prevent minority members from being violated, such as measures for their education and minority societies. These are challenges for the political system from now on. The Government leaves you aside the issue that is 'burning', namely the question of a comprehensive regulation of the issues of the Muslim minority. I am not at all sure, Minister, whether you will be able to show the responsibility required in your Government, because so far your government's management has not been advocating this. After the Turkish President's visit to Greece, which you invited as a government officially, and as it appeared from the result, whether there was no preparation or incomplete, you then opened the question of the organization of mushrooms, immediately after Mr Erdogan's public statements on changing the way in which the mushroom was elected. There is no question that this is a serious issue, which we need to resolve. It is an internal matter, however, which is in no way about Greek-Turkish relations - and I think we will agree on that - and it cannot be turned into a bilateral issue. The question, however, is this because this is also related to the subject we are discussing today, which is why I am putting it. It is not fundamentally inconceivable how to highlight mushrooms with the other issue that we are discussing today and with the current legislation. Of course, you said in your position that any coincidence in time - I do not know if you said so only about this, or about the issue that has been done with the Turkish officials - does not mean anything. I can hear it. However, we must take care of the time-consuming events or, at any rate, you can understand that when they happen one day by the Turkish President and the other by you make statements, there are cooperatives. The question is this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u96	We'll never open it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u97	Let's open it, of course. Because the question is serious, we must also open it up with today's subject. Because these issues are linked, as you understand well, and there is a need for a comprehensive design of this issue. If we move on to abolishing some time - since we say 'transitional' today that we are going to go to non-compulsoryity - of the Sharia, we must also see this issue. I think the Minister, too, has referred to this in detail, and he will then be able to tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u98	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u99	For the display of mushrooms, Mr Philly, and I think that you will agree on that, too, that this is a serious matter. I don't know what the Greek Government says about this. That's exactly why I'm begging you. I have heard the Minister say today - and I want to challenge him productively - that the Greek Government will make a scientific committee if I am not mistaken. What is the government's position on this matter? Will he change the way in relation to the display of mushrooms or not? In order to respond and to have a debate on what is clearly its position. I think we have caused you the previous time in the committees. You have to tell us how, I mean by which body of choice. Tell us what your thoughts are in the whole process. I am now going through a subject on which the handling of your government is, in our view, a disgrace for the Left and the country. Your Government has made an application for annulment against the decision of the Secondary Board of Appeal to grant asylum to a Turkish officer. That application led to the recent decision by the Administrative Appeals Office to temporarily suspend the procedure for granting asylum to the Turkish co-pilot of the helicopter who applied to Greece. As judged by the Greek court, the eight Turkish officers are not involved with coup d'états. That's what this is about. A year ago, I particularly pointed out to Mr Tsipras and publicly that, at least in matters relating to international relations and national issues, he must be more careful about what he promises and what he says. And I meant the published reports that had been made in the summer of 2016 on his talks with Mr Erdogan and his commitments to the eight Turkish soldiers that, within 15 days, our country will return them, which were not disproved by the Greek Government at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u100	Confirmed?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u101	They haven't been disproved. Your Greeks are fine, Mr. Philie.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Philly, please. Don't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u103	Confirmed? Acts, not words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Philie, your Greeks are fine. On this, at least, I did not expect you to protest and react. So we in our country may know Mr. Tsipras how he works in these situations. It doesn't surprise us to say any more, but the next day. These are, however, very serious national issues, particularly when it comes to its international interlocutors. So, as a European and democratic state, Greece cannot negotiate human lives, national and international rules, values and principles. The rule of law and respect for human rights are above all appropriate. Greek justice, with one particular reason, decided not to extradite the eight Turkish officers and then the independent Secondary Committee decided to grant asylum, initially to one of the eight Turkish officers. He did not even have time to dry the ink of the decision to grant asylum to the Turkish officer and, as a government, to insult the decision. You requested a suspension of the decision. Is that a commitment somewhere? You had to ask for a parole? I'm really surprised!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u105	Since they wouldn't be issued by judgment of the Marble Ice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u106	Dear SYRIZA colleagues, from your government, I expected that. SYRIZA colleagues, I am surprised that you are protesting on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u107	What about Öcalan?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u108	Mr Erdogan currently has a regime that pursues, tortures, imprisons anyone who expresses the slightest disagreement with this regime, which violates human rights and freedoms, does not respect the democratic separation of powers. Let me remind you that Mr McCron, a few days ago at his meeting with Mr Erdogan, raised these questions about the rule of law. The issues relating to the defence of democracy against coups are a serious issue. The rule of law, on the other hand, is just as serious. That is exactly what we call, as the progressive body of the Central Left, of the Anti-Population, for you to do: finally defend the rule of law. You want to convince us that the Turkish officers will not be extradited to Turkey. That's right, we didn't tell you otherwise. The Martian Ice has decided. They can, however, be deported to any third country, from which the Turkish secret services can well receive them. That is the problem, hypocrisy about rights and freedoms. We don't think it's going to happen, but we put it on to keep it from happening. This is a great shame. This action by your Government deepens our country as a rule of law - this objection you have made, to be clear, if not understood - as a modern European state. In all countries of Western Europe, the Left always defends freedom, equality and rights with passion. So you submitted this issue to political regularity. That's the big problem. That's what we've told you. And, of course, the reasoning of the request for suspension, when it is fully known, is even more problematic. Because it will probably be a rationale that will be mentioned in relation to the asylum decision, because, as the original decision recognises, Turkish officers do not have any connection with coup d'état. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. So I need to return to the bill, political will and actions, to create a framework for protecting the right and inviolable religious freedom and equality. A grid that would prevent the Muslim minority from being employed and would require the legitimisation with regard to isopoliticalism and the promotion of the smooth coexistence of Christians and Muslims as well as in general people with different religious backgrounds. The general framework, however, that you are legislating is not progressive and is not reformist. It does not drive or promote extroversion in a world that we should actually promote - because we have these possibilities as a country - and extroversion. I'm talking about education. But it's not the time to speak in detail. I don't have time to talk about education. But we will often have time, Mr Gavroglou. The question is if you're moving on. In our opinion, you do not go beyond these progressive changes, which have nothing to do with the memos. I think that we need a detailed debate on whether you are going ahead and how quickly you are moving forward. In any case, it needs design at last and modern practices. We live in Greece of the 21st century, Greece where we want it open, European, not fearful, with social cohesion, justice and solidarity. This is what we claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The speaker of SYRIZA, Maria Theleritis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u110	Dear colleagues and colleagues, apologies, may I start after dialogue? Because there's a lot of upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, a little quiet, please! Here, Mrs. Welleritis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u112	After the start of Parliament's work for the new year, I would like to begin by wishing everyone a good year, with fruitful and meaningful debates in the context of our parliamentary work and the adoption of laws extending the individual, social and political rights of men and women and social justice. So we are starting this new year with a general confession of a very important draft law that puts an end to Islamic law, the so-called law of Sharia. It is a law that applies to the Muslim minority in Thrace and which so far prevails not only the common Greek rules of law but also international conventions for the protection of human rights. Since 1920, domestic law has been in place in Thrace, allowing the implementation of the sacred Muslim law under a strictly subjective and objective scope of application, namely, only in the Thrace region and exclusively for members of the Muslim minority, as recognised by the Treaty of Lausanne. These provisions are compatible with the international obligations undertaken by Greece with the Treaty of Lausanne, without, of course, the compatibility of such provisions as the sole or binding choices of the Greek State for the application of the provisions of Article 42 of the Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law which ensures that part of Greece's population is not excluded from equality in law and from protection against law. Because part of the population of Greece is not protected by the law. Because some citizens and, in particular, some women are not considered to be equal to the law. Because minor girls are forced to marry regardless of their will. Because the family and hereditary differences of these citizens are not regulated by the rules of law, but by religious rules and are not avenged by a judge, but by a religious leader. What I would like to stress, however, is that this draft law ceases to apply an anachronistic and authoritarian law, which only applies to Greece and essentially prohibits gender equality. Based on Islamic law, and for almost one century in just one region of Greece, whose population is protected by international conventions as a recognised religious minority, individual and human rights are blatantly being violated, either by deadlocked policies of central power so far or by the former and religious actors of the region. The opposition, which has criticised, has not dared to date when we are talking about abolishing them, i.e. abolishing all these anachronistic provisions. For example, I will mention some anachronistic applications of the Sharia, which have a direct impact on the lives of Muslim women and their children. The moor - prostitute validates the parental decision to marry their minor girls without investigating the true will of minors. It should be noted here that, on the basis of the UN definition of violence against women, forced marriage is a form of racial violence. By decision of mute, the spouses separate their wives unilaterally and without justification, and the diet for the divorced wife is never invoked beyond three months of divorce. It should be noted that, on the basis of the relevant information, the Xanthi and Komotini Prizes in recent years only validate the decisions of the muft in terms of divorce and refuse to validate decisions as to the custody and nutrition of children, thus recognising to some extent the need to regulate family differences in a fair and modern way. As far as the inherited law applicable under the Islamic Law is concerned, it differs greatly from that of the Civil Code. For example, a testament is forbidden, while girls are only entitled to half an indisposable share of the inherited portion of the boy. Discrimination against women regarding divorces, nutrition, child care, heritage is a certain reality of inequality and inequality. Furthermore, apart from the fact that adultery was decriminated in 1982 in Greece under the new family law and under Law No 1329/1983, adultery ceased to be an absolute reason for divorce, in the context of Islamic law, and discrimination against women also exists in this context. According to the application of the flesh, if the man commits adultery, he can be divorced and the wife restored somewhat economically. But if that's what the woman does, she won't get anything from the common property, she'll get the divorce, most likely go back to her father's, and the children will get it. It should be noted, for the record, that even Turkey is not allowed to substitute secular law by sacred rules, and of course its religious leaders are not judges. It has been abolished, i.e. since 1926. In Greece, therefore, the 21st century and Thrace still holds Islamic law and even one of its most anachronistic versions. All these years therefore, this law has been implemented and has remained unchanged, contrary to the Civil Code, which, as we know often, has been amended by Parliament in order to meet social conditions. The question that is being asked today is: is society ready for the gradual abolition of the compulsoryity of this anachronistic law? First of all, we'd probably say yes, she's ready. Let's take a look at what young people say about it. They are no longer highly represented by Sharia. As a Muslim student from Thrace says in an interview at the "Eventors' Newspaper", the feeling of young people and young people is that Sharia does not represent them, and explains that things in Thrace have changed over recent years, young people have mainly chosen political marriage against religious, thus bypassing applications of Islamic law in their lives. What does he say in particular? "The new generation, if shaped, can make some choices and see some things if they suit her or not. But a woman, who is in forty, for example, and has made a religious marriage twenty - twenty - five years ago, where will she find her right if anything happens to her?" she wonders. "And when Muslim citizens of Thrace, who find their point in the mute, are seeking to find it in the civil courts, they often declare them unauthorized and send them back to the courts. When the court tells you that, because you have made religious marriage, you are subject to Islamic law, I cannot do anything, it's like you go to court tomorrow and tell you that, since you have made religious marriage, you can go to church and the Archbishop can solve the problem," our colleague points out very well. And it complements: "It is problematic for a muft without legal knowledge, fanatical of religion and patriarchal views to avenge such cases." Secondly - and I conclude - we are before another condemnation of Greece by the European Court of Human Rights and this, of course, does not honour our country. Furthermore, this makes it clear the need for institutional change and for the equality of all citizens to be guaranteed against the law. As one of my colleagues referred, I will not extend myself to the case of hereditary law which was discussed before the European Court of Human Rights. It is the case of the Muslim citizen of Thrace who wanted to write his will in the notary to ensure his wife. So I'm not going to come to the legal place because I've analysed what this law guarantees. I would therefore just like to refer to the fact that under the law they now opt for the applicable disputes, first having in advance safeguards offered indiscriminately by the common provisions of the Civil Code, that is to say, they are protected by the Civil Code and, at the same time, without dismissing the rights and opportunities they have enjoyed for decades because of religion. Therefore, the parties to the law of the mosquito will be made subject to the condition that both parties apply to the mosquito for the resolution of a particular dispute under the sacred Muslim law. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion of my speech, I should like to stress that, although it is with this draft law that an anachronistic, authoritarian law prohibits equality and, in particular, gender equality - yes, it is a step, the first step - but we must take serious account of the concern that has been developed by women for their rights and gender equality, which stipulates that it is very likely in practice that this free choice will not apply in practice, particularly when citizens are under pressure but also under oppression in the context of extremist and patriarchal relations, when people are captive traditions that exclude the real choices and when the social consequences of their choices are not stigmatized and are not evicted outside the community as well as those who choose differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u113	Mrs. Theleritis, please complete. You've been talking for 11 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u114	I shall conclude, Mr President. So the first step was taken. It is true that citizens are protected, but, as far as gender equality is concerned, let me note that in the current social conditions in which women's rights are concerned, policy measures are needed which should facilitate freedom of choice in practice and we should take this seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Iyhan Kara Yusuf very much to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u116	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wish the new year - and I believe it - to be the year when Greece will change page. A lot of things have been said about the bill, much unrelated, of course, to the right wing. It is obvious that all of this was said to create impressions, most of the time fleeing today's bill. I won't say much. I don't have to make repetitions. Repetitions help knowledge, schools, and that's what teachers do. I will say two or three things relating to the substance of today's bill. What does the bill for the members of the minority, of which I happen to be, a member of this small society, the small part of the Greek people, besides being a Member of the Rhodope Law, i.e. all the people of Rhodope? Since 1946, it has started to apply - if I am wrong, let the lawyers help me - the Civil Code, the Civil Law in Greece. Now for reasons which those who applied it must say, a small part of this poor people has been left out of civil law. Is that because of the diversity of faith, religion? I think he was left out of civil law on matters of marriage, divorce, inheritance, etc. Perhaps to stay in the ghetto that she had built some powers that she wanted to be folded, so that she can be guided more easily. This is not considered to be interference in the faith of anyone. I'm a believer too, but my faith is between me and the power I believe in. And these are not defined as the origin of each Greek citizen is not defined. What's he going to do? After the 1980s, as mentioned by fellow localists, in practice, members of the minority can also choose civil courts to resolve issues of legacy, marriage, divorce, etc. Good, we know that, we recognize it. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Today's bill in my mind makes it a law of the state. That's how I understand it. That is why I think that unnecessary words do not help the - much-needed for me and the majority of the progressive Thracemen - incorporation of this small society into the entire Greek people. Isn't that what we're all pursuing? We must not have the majority of the Greek Parliament, and we do not believe that extremes exist, which unfortunately exist in the Chairs of the Greek Parliament, where you consider the changed person to be a potential terrorist and which is not united. We must embrace this initiative by the Ministry of Education and the Greek Government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and support it. I do not believe there is any other way, since it also gives the freedom of choice to some who wish to remain in this area the ghetto. He can't get them out of here. It gives them the opportunity, if there's a consensus between the parties to go to the moor, the jury, to resolve their issues. Just stuff. I do not want to talk too much, because there are other speakers who must also take that floor. I would, however, like to say, because there has been a lot of talk of political exploitation and an impression on the subject raised by the Minister of Education - and very well he has done - about the choice of mufts in Thrace, to say: I think that every society has the freedom to choose its religious minister. Let me talk about Muslims. Every parish can and must choose its own imam, religious minister, and all imams can choose their superior, who, of course, at this stage are mufts. I believe there is nothing inconceivable here. Simple logic suggests that. Because what I want, and I believe that the majority of Thrace's society wants, is this: Religious leaders must be united and not divided. When there are two doctrines in a region, the representatives of these doctrines must cooperate on some issues relating to charity projects, can have a channel of communication between them, so that this successful success of the two syndicates in Thrace continues. They shouldn't be splitting. The religious leader does not produce politics and whoever wants to do this, I invite them to change it, to remain religious leaders. Finally, I think it would be a good thing - that is what the political morality wants - that we say as politicians in our region, here in the Greek Parliament, say - exactly the same - and in the society that has voted for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u117	We're continuing with Mr. Mitafidis' colleague. Mr. Mitafidis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a small answer to my colleague, Mr Theoharopoulos, who shows that he has a short memory. Remind him of Ocalan's surrender to Pangalu and Palestinian Hamdam Rashid's CIA as a terrorist. So when you resign from this government that it has secret agreements with Erdogan to hand over Turkish officers who are involved in the coup d'état to overthrow an elected government - with the 'quality' that it has and we have not decided - you should look a little back. None of them is in danger of suffering the suffering that we all know the opponents of the present regime exist in the neighbouring country. And I want to tell you that there are several political fugitives right now, who are not officers, but they are, for example, teachers. I don't know any teachers to ride on a tank or hold a gun. So there will be all the care on our part, as well as sensitivity. After all, we have been through such situations and we owe it, if you like, to this country's overall history and to our personal history some of us. I would like to say that the debate on the issue of Sharia appears as a kind of exotic fruit in this country, and indeed there are various kinds of police interpretations, which are also mentioned in the 'hidden' Tsipras agreements with Erdogan or which have been made under the pressure of events, by recourse to the European Court of Justice. Obviously, we do not legislate in a vacuum. I would like to say, however, that, particularly after the outbreak of the refugee wave, the issue of the application of the Islamic law, the Sharia law, is one of the issues that have arisen in Europe as well. Here I would like to invoke a valid voice from the University of Thessaloniki. She is the professor of religion Angeliki Ziakas, who, in my opinion, in an excellent interview with “EKO” she clarifies many issues and in a very sober manner. You know very well that, beyond the legal dimensions of the issue, there are cultural dimensions which are not at all indifferent. I would like to say to you that it is of great importance that this legislative initiative, with the sensitivity it is being made - surgically, I would call it, even if it seems to be a medium-sized one and it is under these circumstances - why you must not forget that we have two intersected currents right now in Europe: Islam, on the one hand, and Islam, on the other, charging the criminal activity of the 'IS' terrorist, and on the other hand, President Trump's arson decision to transfer the United States embassy to Jerusalem, a city that would call it a'secretary', a meeting point of three religions and cultures. All this has created, on the other hand, an anti-Semitism climate. These currents are in place right now. And I say this, not because I am trying to squeeze or vote on the government's legislative initiative, which I personally would like to see abolishing the sharia at every level. So our sensitivity comes, taking all these aspects into account and the factors which I do not think should be underestimated. In this context, therefore, the application of Islamic law to religious, family and hereditary law is consistent with respect for the religious idiosyncrasy of the Muslim minority of Western Thrace, who are in any event religious and follow-up by Islam. I have, however, noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not think this is a mistake from the debate, because a political debate in this House cannot be contained, but it is obviously linked to the atmosphere and to the issues of topicality - that while we are talking about the sharia, it is the Macedonian, which, in the current nationalist rhetoric, some have baptized it 'Skopje'. I want to ask you this. We all have our special origins. We are Thessalonians, Athenians, Trikalins, etc., but we also have our national identity. Has anyone prevented us from invoking it? And we're talking about a neighbouring country, which is one, if you like, hybrid in terms of ethnicity. Personally, I believe that the geographical definition, which seems to be 'playing' - I would say - in the atmosphere at the moment, is, in my opinion, unloading the nationalist climate that has been cultivated in previous years. They were invested here, as you know, in political careers, which caused very great damage, especially in northern Greece. These people - Macedonian - kept the market in Thessaloniki. You know that by Thessalonians. Their largest business was a subsidiary of the company ‘ELLENICA PETRELAIA S.A.’. On the other hand, of course, we had the illegal - even at the time of the embargo - transport of fuels at the same time. Some ultrapatriots - patriots, in my opinion - were shouting on the channels that they are ready to sacrifice everything for "our name, soul", according to this fetishistic concept that prevailed at the time, while they did fat business. So now he has come to this government - and not by chance - to resolve this issue too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to close with this so that we do not forget our roots. Let me remind you of this. I believe, if it were possible for King Ferraeus to hear us, they would rub his bones. You see how wise his view of the Balkan federation was. I say this because usually when leaders come from neighbouring countries, they remember King Ferreau. How is it possible on the one hand to serve nationalism in all its versions and, on the other, to remember King Ferraeus, who very wisely in the Balkan mosaic, saw as the only solution with the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire the creation of a Balkan federation? Do you know why I'm saying that? See what is now happening in Germany with the formation of a government. Martin Schultz has been targeted because he said we should go to the "United States of Europe", what was once written on the flag of the labour movement. So we're gonna get out of this sick nationalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Vaki, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u120	I will take all my time, Mr President, and my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u121	Please, Mrs. Vaki, and many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Wish me, too, a good year and a lot of years to all of them. You will allow me to make two comments before I enter the issue of the bill. I was covered, of course, before Mr Mitafidis rose. Look, we have heard from the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Independence that various reproach for endorsing, and so on. On the occasion of the case of the eight Turkish soldiers. We must remember that there is no way these people will be extradited, because there is a decision of the Ice Bay. There is the question of asylum and asylum being granted, and it is good that it is not just an administrative processing operation since secondary schools, but that justice be decided on. That's what this is about. As far as human rights and secularism are concerned, I will return them as unacceptable. Let these reproach be given better to their members to the new central left, when they handed over Öcalan, as the previous speaker said. On national issues and the famous name issue, let me say a few words, because this is what the Parliamentary representative of the river mentioned. It's a very good opportunity. Our foreign policy has unfortunately been a policy of missed opportunities. It has been thirty years since the modern version of the so-called "Macedonian issue" began, and we lived, my colleagues, not the story without a name, but a nightmare, the nightmare of a miserable nationalism and patriotism that was culminating even in the lamentation of the identity of Vouchala. The search for national identity, national self-determination is an undeniable right. However, the search for national identity and self-determination in an primitive founding myth proved to be the only ones who helped to make political careers and short-lived ones. To say otherwise: 'Patriotism' is not nationalism and altomatism, but the creation of good neighbourly relations in a fragile region and the creation of conditions for exiting from a specific graphic isolation. So the time has come when the political leadership of the neighbouring country appears optimistic and consensual. Let us not miss an opportunity, now that it has weakened a dead-end and disastrous intransigence. Let us move on to a complex name of erga omnes which, of course, does not leave the shadows of alkaliism, nor will it trigger nationalist rhetoric. With regard to what the Parliamentary Representative of the River claimed, let each consider his responsibilities on such a sensitive national issue. It is disgraceful that national issues should be used as a pretext for satisfying the desires for the government to fall, as a lever for undermining our political opponents or for changing political correlations. Any divergent positions of SYRIZA - ANEL do not constitute, as the Chief of Staff has said, a presumption of loss of the alleged. That's what the Constitution says. Let's read the Constitution. Not to mention the recent finding, which is a reproach for both Parliament and a monument of political opportunism, in which we vote against an agreement, in this case on major national issues, even if we agree with its content, since one of the two government partners does not support it. That's what you realize that all that's causing is anger. So let us consider our responsibilities, each and every one of us, and take the opportunity. I'm going to the bill we're talking about today about Sharia. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore talk about the Islamic sacred law, the Sharia law, which continues to exist in Thrace, while Turkey has been abolished since 1926. In no other part of Europe is it implemented and in many Islamic states it is gradually improved with a view to gradually integrating it into the Civil Code. Let us finally put an outrage at the end of the day - let me express - a legal fossil that turns a religious leader, the muft, into a priesthood based merely on his morality, his theological training and his religious activity in general. The rules of the Sharia are unwritten, they do not exist, and in most cases the decision is literally lost in translation. The reason is that the decision was written in the Paleottomans and was then translated. Ladies and gentlemen, in a variety of ways, but I have had the arguments on the basis of which the Greek authorities have backed the subjection of Muslim Greek citizens to Islamic law from the outset. The first is a legal argument based on the Treaty of Lausanne. According to Article 41(1) of the Treaty, Greece undertakes to take all appropriate measures to deal with Muslim communities, in terms of their family, personal situation, as these issues are dealt with in accordance with the customs of these minorities. Of course, this does not explicitly provide for the functioning of the judiciary, but it also opens the way to changing the measures that will settle the customs of the Muslim minority. That is the first argument, the legal one. The second argument for tolerance in the sharia is dictated by the need to respect the cultural peculiarities of Muslims. Greece thus appeared to be the custodian for some of the Muslim traditions and therefore also a squash of any clashes and riots. However, this argument ignores something, the effects of this specific judicial regime on fundamental human rights. It is an argument that does not feed democracy, since it creates exceptions to equality and equalisation. It does not, however, mitigate economic and social inequalities, it does not reduce poverty, and for women it seems to function as a consecrated apartheid. Why all this? It has also been mentioned by many colleagues today. Elderly girls of eighteen years are obliged to conclude a marriage regardless of their intention. The husbands separate their wives unilaterally. And as far as custody of children is concerned, boys up to the age of seven and girls up to that of nine stay with mother and then custody is automatically transferred to father. It should be added that men also inherit twice as much of a share of women and that nowadays, when special reasons exist, bimacy is allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, a democratic policy towards minorities calls for self-evident, individual, social and political rights of Muslim Greek citizens, their inclusion in the rule of law, equality and equality, which will give women a voice and make the unseen. Most of us who would support these given the complete abolition of the Sharia and not its optionality, which is provided for in this draft law. So on this point let me make some theoretical, philosophical points about the current situation and why we are finally moving forward to optionality rather than abolishing it at the moment. Marx's phrase is well known: 'Religion is the opium of the people'. Of course, it is also known that it follows it: 'It is the sigh of the oppressed and the heart of a heartless world'. This means that religion in a world of unjust, hemorrhaging and exploitation sometimes becomes pausile and fairy tale of the oppressed. In today's world in crisis and at risk, with exclusion, human life has been depreciated recently, some uncompromising doubles have been born: Religious, fundamentalist bloodshed, sacred wars resurrecting a high-tech middle ages and in response to them we have a strong Islamophobia. The theoretical responses to the above-mentioned situation consist either in the protection of collective identities, which would support, say, the philosophical party of multiculturalism or in the one - within many introductorys - "fantasticism of Enlightenment" that insists on an unequivocal integration of minorities into the prevailing political culture. So let us detect a dialectic of these seemingly opposing ones, although both are struggling to establish a genuine liberal concept within the limits of the rule of law or, if you like, this is two sides of the same currency. The democratic boldness is not imposed on anyone. It is cultivated and presupposed by a democratic method, i.e. recognition, but also awareness of it, in a community that includes everyone with the same rights. The ratio is also based on material conditions, the elimination of economic, social, educational, racial inequalities, equal access to schools and universities, equal access to the labour market. So not a violent incorporation into the political culture of the rule of law, let it be interpreted as a process of education in a secular modern identity, the morality of a democratic citizen. And learning processes are a matter of cultivation, as we know, and not of enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen, this reconciliation and dialectic approach may sound sufficiently conservative. However, there have been circumstances in the history that the path of moderate reform has been safer than cross-cutting areas. Let us remember a philosopher of the 18th century, Adam Smith, in the theory of moral feelings. And I'm closing up with it. This is a distinction between man, writes Adam Smith, the public spirit, who has never violently devoured the deep prejudices of the people he governs when he fails to eliminate them through the word and persuasion and the man of the system - so calls him - who wants so much from the goodness of his ideal system of governance, which he tries to apply without regard to solid prejudices, some of which he opposes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So let us take the optional step. It is a first important step, when no one touched Sharia over the past few years, thus letting a community misguided, allowing the members of this community to feel invisible and waste. Let us follow a path of moderation at the present time, which will also save the risk of possible stenosis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. We are moving on with Ms. Anagnostopoulos, MP of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u124	Good year, Mr President, good year, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u125	I wish you a good year too!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u126	We're talking about a bill that seemed to be in the debate, we all agree. All orders or almost all orders are agreed. However, the argument of the agreement is quite different. In other words, there is an attempt at political confrontation from the outside. We heard from the Qualified Opposition that we arrived in this draft law, because Erdogan forced us. It's funny, just to think about it. I don't have time. Why would Erdogan oblige us to abolish the sharia? I have every reason to argue that it could do exactly the opposite and not that. This sterile confrontation, only to show that this government does not know what is going on and does five major steps only by self-determination - and I use the term with all knowledge - has undermined political life, but also what we consider to be major national issues. I won't talk about either the eight officers or anything else. My colleagues spoke before. But I will say one thing, because people are listening to us here. Mr Erdogan said in his public presence along with the Prime Minister that "you promised me that you would issue the eight officers". And in front of Mr Erdogan, in front of all the Greek people, the Prime Minister replied "I told you that we would follow the country's legal order, the courts and the international rules". Did he say it or didn't he say it? Here, in other words, there is also a confusion of what we are hearing and what we are not listening to. I won't stay on them or what happened before or anything like that. I'll tell about the bill itself. To me it's a very important bill, despite the fact that I said right from the start that I was one of those who wanted to take the whole step and not leave it in the middle. I will say why I understand half the step and why I would like it to be. Why is this bill important? Let us see, in other words, why we should really concentrate where the political elites in this country would help to think a little bit and to facilitate citizens' thoughts on other major issues that follow, such as Macedonian, such as many others. We all know - it has been sufficiently analysed here - that it was not a question of the Treaty of Lausanne. There is nowhere either in Article 42(1) or in Article 43. Nowhere is such compulsion dictated by the Treaty of Lausanne, namely the hereditary, family and generally the civil law of the Muslim community, to be served by the sacred tradition, by the sacred law, by the Sharia. After all, this is also evidenced by the fact that Mustafa Kemal in 1926 abolished the Roman Byzantine law of the Patriarchate, that is, the Greek Orthodox of the city's minority were not subject to it. What happened? The Minister said, like some other colleagues, that this first arrangement for the Sharia was answered in 1882 by the annexation of Thessaly. It's not a random date, and that shouldn't be the way it is. In 1882 we have the colonialism and laws of this type: Minorities or majorities that they wanted to entangle, not to consider these populations and at random in the majority in a Muslim religion, they put them in this special regime. The law, then, of 1882, is the result of the general perception of colonial powers. May I remind you that in Algeria 90% of the Algerian population is part of a minority and does not have the right of the citizen to be regarded as a second category of citizen? This is one: how they would be considered second-class citizens. The other was that such forces, like France and England, wanted one thing: they did not want citizens who will develop democratically and claim their democratic rights. They wanted to interact with a local minority authority caste. Hard customer relations were established within the very minority, which had the great privilege of sharing with central power. This is what we have wanted to do with the Muslim minority for so many years. This exception to Greek citizens with Muslim religion was not made to safeguard their religious sense. Because else it is the religious feeling and others it is the right of the citizen to be tried as is the case for any Greek citizen. So there was a reason, and that is why it has created too many paradoxes in the minority, which we all know about. There has been a great deal of effort over the past twenty-five years to alleviate the major problems of the minority, which was considered to be a second category. However, if we do not take the step - and this is a principle - these rights, which are the rights of all Greek citizens, are not considered privileges under religious law but rights on equal terms, that is where we will have a problem. I am thinking above all of women's rights. Maria Welleritis said it very well and I won't come back. A minority that operates closed, where rights are privileges of a religious character, so the minority is practically patriarchal, it is women who are under the greatest pressure. And not just women. I would add other identities which cannot be identified in such an environment. In conclusion, I would like to say one thing and I think our government will at some point take the step. Because here - and I shall disagree a little with my friend, Mrs Fotini Vakis - it is not a matter of saying vertically that she is changing the law on this major issue, that she is curtailing the privileges or rights of a minority. At a time when we are living, when the effort being made is the religionation of people, to be enclosed in religious groups, to come out of such discrimination of a religious type is very serious. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I respect any religion, as well as Muslim religion. But I say one thing: no religion, Christianity or Muslim or the best one can be fair in matters of law, because it is not being dealt with. According to one religion, God says: "I am the truth." Once God proposes 'I am the truth', we cannot demand justice. Justice in democracy is a negotiable matter. I'm glad to vote for the bill and I'll be glad to see you get the follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u127	Thank you. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Mustafa Mustafa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a good year. We're starting with spectacular work, Minister! If we completely abolished the sharia, it would be much more spectacular, for God does not tolerate the injustices involved in the sharia. I am voting in favour of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs bill. I am voting for it with a pity and a half heart, because for over forty years we have been struggling as the Left for the abolition of the jurisdictional powers of the motto, for the decorating of our society and its emancipation, to be equal to all our fellow citizens. This struggle will continue until the sharia is completely abolished and eliminated. I would point out this history in particular, because the government's initiative has been interpreted, a variety of comments have been made. Others have said that it is at the expense of getting Mrs Mollah Hattitz's appeal against Greece to the European Court of Human Rights. Others have linked this initiative to Mr Erdogan's visit. Indeed a prominent member of the New Democracy, Mr Stylianides, in his article he wonders: is the saria and the mufts of Thrace a gift from SYRIZA to Tayyip Erdogan? Mercy! High-level political controversy! The left place on the left was to abolish the sharia, to deal only with religious, heavenly, shepherding, and to ensure a way, a process of displaying it, which would be accepted by the believers. This position has been supported and supported unreservedly, without discounts and opportunism. We also supported it in times of trouble and at political cost. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago in Xanthi, at the initiative of the Hellenic Society for Human Rights, there was a conference on this issue. One of the panel participants, dear friend, former president of the Xanthi Bar Association, told me: “Remember? When we started talking about this problem, thirty, forty years ago, black and white was your hair. They've become splashy. Mine too." That's the way it is. That is why, as long as the years pass, in these discussions, I think of Rembrandt's painting "Make an Anatomy Course". People around - around, serious, nice, handsome and in the middle a corpse. We are talking about something that our society has already gone through and we keep it balmious. Reading the explanatory statement and other texts defending the draft law, I think that we are washing away sins, wrong choices from others and forgetting our standing position, the position of principle on these issues. Conservation of the sharia was a choice of our state, which was trapped in the theory of the religiousization of the minority, of the depopulation of the minority. To manage the minority issue, we invested in the sharia, the mufts, the fugitives of Kemal reforms in the 1920s, we supported the most reactionary, the most conservative part of the minority, baptizing the oldest Muslims. It was the wrong choice. With a twist of stripes, a straight line is not engraved. And this twisted line continues until today. In 2007, Law 3536 was passed. With the articles of 36 to 40, there are two hundred priests' seats on the religious and spiritual culture of the Muslims of Thrace. They will preach the Koran in the mosques of Thrace. Jesus Christ, that is, Apostle! Every parish, every mosque has its imam, its muesine. All school teachers teaching minority schools in the Turkish-speaking program are priesthood graduates. They didn’t get us, take another two hundred forty priests. All the minorities are gonna be a maniac. That's why we're gonna be saints. Indeed, every year a number of priests are appointed by ninety - nine - month contracts, taking their wages. What they do isn't very interested in anyone, and the world has named them under the nicknamed "Milkantorakis", because Articles 36 to 40 were a product of suggestion, processing Mr Ilhan, who was then a Member of the New Democracy and a Minister of Foreign Affairs, was Mrs Bakoyannis. We have seen their behaviour, Minister, when they came to the Committee on Forensic Affairs, which went on to set fire to a calm debate in committee with their indifference and indifference. So do not take their views seriously, because you said that you were sent back to you. Conservation of the Sharia does not require it by any international treaty or convention. The Treaty of Lausanne does not require it either. If that were the case, we had to ask for the maintenance of Byzantine Roman law and for the Roman Orthodoxs of the city and not to be subject to the Civil Code adopted by Kemal. In the transnational reciprocity, with the integration of the Civil Code into our legal system, we had to abolish the Sharia and automatically subject the minority to this civil law regime. But none of this happened. Sharia has been maintained, religious support has been given, and this is how the riding, management, control of the minority was sought. From what I have experienced from the experiences of my life in Thrace, taking part in this debate, listening to the supporters of the Sharia, the profound analyses that have been made before about rights, respect, peculiarities, etc., turns to my mind the slogan we said "you are talking about profits and damages, we are talking about human lives". Here really comes to my mind that we are talking about conditions, about saliva, about contracts, but underneath there are human lives and these human lives are very affected, because the king of the mute, the saviour in the awarding of justice is a bad thing, and it does not create equality, it does not create justice, it does not create normality. It can't stand it, it can't pick up the jurisprudence system, the body, the soul, the idiosyncrasy, the historical path of the minority. In this illusion, the hermaphrodite, the anachronistic regime exists a lot of hypocrisy. There are too many economic and political interests, political careers are being built on this hermaphrodite system, becoming rich, circulating black money. Society, in fact, for which I am proud gives its struggle to get rid of these things and the inheritance and the increase in political marriages and the diligence of children who have gone to civil courts. We need state support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me say something personal, which is not only personal, but is also general, because too many of our ancestors - grandparents, parents - clashed with ideologies, religion, killing to protect their daughters, to protect their orphans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u129	Please complete, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u130	I shall conclude, Mr President. And that's because, according to the sharia, the orphan has no right to his grandfather's inheritance. The house I'm sitting at and where I was born belonged to my great-grandfather, because my father was orphaned both from mother to father. That old man, when he realized he was going to die, took his grandson, my father, and transferred what was entitled to him from his property. That's why it's an opportunity to pay tribute to these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u133	You are asking for the floor on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, but on what grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u134	I would like to speak on personal grounds, Mr President, because he has referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u135	Here, I give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u136	Mr Colleague, you said about the 'Doras', 'Law of Ilhan', etc., about priests. I would like to remind you of the following: First of all, I was a Member of the European Parliament, neither a minister nor a government secretary. I just asked the House a question as to whether these people, the imams, have the right to have insurance contributions because they were paid by families, by non-state systems. Is it wrong for me to investigate parliamentary if these imams, religious officials, have insurance contributions? If you as SYRIZA do not accept it, why don't you remove it? Anyway, Mr President, these priests, whom we are talking about, are not first imams. The Greek people are being misinformed here. They're people they teach in schools. They're teachers. That is, they teach the Quran in Greek public schools. Minister, this is where truths must be spoken. They teach religious in Greek public schools. It is a law that evolved, amended in 2012 etc. So what does 'law Ilhan' or 'Dorah' mean? So, you're against the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u137	So you're in favor of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u138	If you are against the law, bring it to plenary, and if the plenary judges, you are abolishing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u139	We'll try.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u140	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Dousinas, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. It is a great honour to follow Mr Mustafa Mustafa, who, in his experience and wisdom, also enjoys this House. Also, following the speeches by Mrs Vaki, Mrs Theleritis and Mrs Anagnostopoulou, I think it is possible to broaden the debate that has taken place so far at such a detailed level. I believe that this bill lays the foundations for a multicultural and multi-religious society of the 21st century. In this sense, I think it is the first step in a series of reforms, which we hope will follow and which will put our society on a new basis. Mr Mitafidis said that one of the greatest risks we face at the moment in Europe is precisely Islamophobia, the fact that the great conflict today is the conflict between the two cultures, Islam and Christianity. Indeed, what happens in a society with refugees, migrants, where the number of Muslims and other nationalities is rising constantly, is something that we must avoid. However, let us look at the history of these provisions and the situation we are facing today. In the 1920s, as you know, the major empires were destroyed, like the Ottoman Empire, the Austro-Hungarian, and even other major empires later. And then, here, in Europe, what was called "valcanisation", i.e. the "salad macedoine", was created, the "Macedonian salad". In other words, what Bauer said is what Bauer, a great sociologist: The logic of the nation - state has entered as the basic logic of organizing pre-war societies, that is, every nation must have its own state and every state must have a sovereign nation. This has necessarily led to the creation of minorities returning to the Balkans. As Hannah Ared writes in her precious book "The beginnings of totalitarianism", the nations here in the Balkans were confronting minorities, who did not have the citizenship of the new states, the 'bear life', i.e. 'naked life'. They recognized no rights, even though the League of Nations had created the first conditions for protecting rights in particular concerning minorities. And, of course, with regard to our own minorities, our neighborhood, the Greeks were expelled from Turkey, while our Greek Muslims remained for too many years 'naked life'. We heard about bars that until recently existed. We have heard that there were no rights in the overall organisation of this minority. But I will now go back to something more general, which has been heard a lot about human rights, because I think that there the role of the House is to be a little bit taught, to learn a little about what these things mean. In the great debate on human rights worldwide, there are two major points. On the one hand there is ecumenism, in which the principles, values and rights are universal, they apply in the same way to all people and everywhere. On the other hand, there is what is called 'cultural relativism' - that is, post-ethics of course - in fact communism, which believes that the rules, principles, values come out of traditions, communities, stories, from the way in which one is born and growing. Of course, both of these views, to a certain extent, are wrong, because when they become absolute, when they believe that either the universal or the Community must fully define people's lives, they become disastrous and murderous. We saw it in Kosovo. The Americans and NATO bombed Yugoslavia, bombed Belgrade, in the name of the universal authorities. The Serbs made the ethnic cleansing of Albanians in Kosovo, in the name of the community and the space in which they were born. If we look at how these two things work, the universal values and principles - and the Community - tradition, history, where we come from - we will see that when the universal authorities enter a community, in a nation, in a state, they will be interpreted and organized on the basis of local understandings and moral values, but also when moral universal principles enter the communities and start to undermine them. Because - and I go to something the Minister said at the beginning - what we are talking about here is roughly the way in which we organise the identity of the subjects, the identity of the groups, the identity of the communities. Think of each other. We are all born in a family, in a neighborhood, in a nation, in a village, in a city. Our basic values, principles, the way we understand what is good and bad, what is ugly and beautiful, what is true and lying, come out of the family, through this Community origin. But when I get out of the family, I go to school, university, art, profession, everyday life, these values that I've taken out of the community and my family, come into conflict and dialogue with the universal authorities, be they cognitive, mathematics, physics, regulatory, morality, which tells me how to work in life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In this sense neither those who talk about human rights constantly, nor those who say that only the community creates the basic values and principles we have, are right, because they are always in a continuous dialogue, in a "conflict for recognition", as Egelos calls the great philosopher. And I, my identity is something that's constantly changing, because all I've got before all the time, they're in conflict, they're in dialogue with this news I'm learning. That's how my ID changes all the time. Of course, there's a big problem. Everyone has said so, as has Mr Mustafa before, in a very intense way. What happens now when the community, when this logic of origin and tradition, through which I have taken my basic principles, does it not allow me to have full rights, these universal, universal, which are part of the identity of each of us and a part of each of us? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. We are now going to the world debate, to the world dialogue. For example, we go to Canada where this issue has become very big. In French-speaking Canada, in Quebec, the French-speaking Canadians imposed the logic that we here follow French-speaking values. What about the English-speaking people? So there in Canada this debate on the relationship between minorities and individual rights, between collective rights of a minority and individual subjects, has been very much discussed. The basic answer that has been given is the so-called 'exit right', the right to withdraw, namely that the English in French-speaking Canada, the Greek Muslim in Thrace, has the right to leave and cannot and must not be forbidden, to choose not to be in this community, even though his identity always, as we have said, will be a combination of the Catholic and the Community. That, I think, is doing or starting this provision today. And in that sense I see it as a provision which starts a new tradition of the 21st century and in a way closes a cycle that began in 1920, in the 1920s, with the creation of nations - states and minorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u142	Please finish, Mr. Dozena.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u143	In this sense too, I think it is a great step, first of all, which must be completed, but since we recognise that, beyond the similarity of rights, there is also a diversity of societies, communities and traditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too. Mr Cavalellas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. This draft law we are discussing relates to national issues. Maximum national issue, however, for which many have spoken in this Chamber, is the so-called 'Macedonian issue', which we will be calling within a few days to manage within this House. I'm afraid we'll give them something that doesn't belong to them. I fear that this House and the Members of this House will sign up for something that we, as the Central Association, think goes beyond the scope of this House. The name of the state by themselves - I have a stamp here when Yugoslavia was united - was "Vardarska". Why don't you suggest it, gentlemen? The fact that they have alperatorial positions here, too: their great Macedonia, reaches Athens. Another more reasonable position, for example, shows the Thessaloniki in and the ports. We can give them, gentlemen, exchanges. Their name is known. They're not Macedonians, they're not Macedonia. The madhouse has a lot of Alexanders, a lot of Napoleons. When someone claims to be Napoleon or is entitled to be called Macedon and not to be, it's for the madhouse. Who is the accelerator in this case? They are the ones who need to find their identity on the one hand and, on the other hand, join the European Union, belonging to NATO. But it happens to be a slogan of many nationalities and I could say that most of them are of Bulgarian origin. So they need it. And we have a piece of paper, that of agreeing to move on within the European Union and NATO. It is a paper, which, I think, we should not throw it away like this, we should lose it, we should not be of the kindness of our character and "do not mind" and "do not get bored" because it is a national matter, Greek blood has been spilled for our Macedonia. I submit to the Secretariat and their stamp, which says "Vardarska" and their incorporation, which is a recent document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kavalis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I heard the Muslim party MPs and I noticed something. They talked about a minority and again about a minority and they avoided saying the word'religious' minority. I don't know if they're attending here. They have to clarify this thing. Because they may have just done so by abbreviation, but I'm afraid there's a secret. I now come to the main issue, and it concerns the issue of the sharia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a party which has a pro-European path. As it has a progressive character, we reward it and we are positive. But this seems to me like a semimeter. Of course, we're starting to get out of the middle ages. In Turkey in 1926, Saria was abolished, while we still had her. I see it's about the first step. That's good, too. It is to be voted on as part of the state's relations with the Muslim minority in Thrace. There is a tradition both from the last government and from the previous governments to remember the minority in Thrace, whether in the event of the European Court of Justice being condemned or election. I think that both issues are now more or less involved. However, there's the picture that some customer moves from behind. I think many customer behaviours were at the expense of national interests. Now let's see how this is going to turn out. However, as long as we have the alternative to the mosquito judge, the mosquito, if he wants to be a judge, has a degree in law, has a ten-year experience in civil courts. It would be a logic until the matter is completed. The current law on voluntary implementation of the Sharia, which the Central Association, as we have said, supports, in part, the injustice that our Muslim fellow citizens have been suffering for years, and more so the women's population in Thrace. Then there was the absolute obligation to resolve their family and civil affairs before the sanctuary of myafi and not before the Greek justice like the rest of Greek citizens and the citizens of two categories. In fact, Greece was the only country in the European Union to implement the Sharia and it was also compulsory for Muslims under Greek Civil Law, which applies, of course, to all Greeks, regardless of religion. Marriages, divorces, nutrition, committees, guardians, minors' adoptions, wills, etc., all went by the muft. The worst part was that there were no written decisions and in the course of the course, things were again being tried, questioned, etc. Images from the Middle Ages before. Human rights were being violated, which were, of course, guaranteed by the Constitution. But we closed our eyes for various reasons, which I foretold. It was the election clientele. There was another issue, that of the mother tongue. I have heard here - by some Members of Parliament of course - that their mother tongue is the Turkish probably, the pomaceutical or the romances. The mother tongue of all this is Greek. The other languages are local dialects, because only in this way can we accept them. Their mother tongue is Greek, because they are Greek citizens, gentlemen. The more this religious minority remains entrenched, the more easy it becomes, of course, the nationalist propaganda and the attitudes of Turkey. We have seen this happen in the past because of the indifference of successive Greek governments about what is happening in Thrace. They make promises in an election, they make a vote and then they all forget until the next elections arrive. Turkey, of course, is rushing to take advantage of trying to take advantage of the gaps and encapsulate the Muslim minority in a false unified Turkish identity. However, we know very well that all of these are Greeks, who at some point have been equated. It spends money on the contrary to Greece. It provides them with loans and education. But the minority is not Turkish, as Turkey would like. As I said before, there are the Pomac and the Roma, but he wants to cover them all under the veil of Turkish origin, which has managed to some extent. I don't want to say things that have been said. We as the Central Association do not forget SYRIZA's unacceptable attitude to the 2014 European elections, as regards the candidacy of Sabiha Suleiman, a Roma Muslim from the Freak Xanthi, who had given a great fight to regain the evacuation of Greek Muslim Roma. So what happened? SYRIZA has succumbed to the pressures of his officials who say that all Muslims in Thrace are Turks - there unfortunately they have this view - and satisfied their wishes and removed it. Unfortunately, my time is running out. As a Central Association, we say Muslims are not Turks. They're Greek. They're evenly balanced. There must be a policy that will help progress and will suspend any attempt at hating the religious minority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. Moving on with Mr. Xydakis, MP of SYRIZA, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. I thank my colleague, Mr Mustafa, because in his speech I heard Alexandros Papadiamantis, his famous novel "The Desperate Derbish" who wonders with love and jealousy about this wanderer, the erroneous Dervesi in the square around the Monastery, where he has come from, from. And there again I heard the beautiful words embedded in the Greek language: “Who was Derbishis? Did he escape from the sultan Serre in the City?"? He insinuates the great slaughter of the beeswaxed generals after 1820. 'Would it be a war?' This brings us to another historic moment: In 2018, which is now beginning, to discuss with the end of the mandatory sharia, 'which opens a door to the mantle', as Mr Ilhan said, whether we will reach the full inclusion of these fellow citizens, under the umbrella of the Greek Constitution and within universal Greek democracy. Because this is the way to end an exception to a group of our fellow citizens. They end with the exception of the Greek Constitution, by the Greek judiciary, by Greek political and human rights. The historic moment that we live in 2018 is a peculiar decayed end of the Cold War. And so in the Macedonian. At the end of the Cold War, at the end of '89, '90, '92, when the borders were moved to Europe, the Greek society - especially the Greek political system - was involved in the past, with special courts, with a new peculiar appearance of the division, the one which troubled Greece at the beginning of the 20th century and throughout the Messopolitan War. So with the Macedonian, now entering a line of logic, sobering and long-term and medium-term national benefits, social benefits. So with this - a simple provision is - which comes to extend the 1991 law with great precision. Mr Venizelos also described it, which also accurately, with an abstraction in an article last week, spoke about the smuggling of patriotism. Retrospectively, Mr. Venizelos describes them with great precision, with great coolness and great sobriety. Inside this Chamber, today, at the beginning of the new year, with great temperedness, many things were heard by the Major Anti-Policy and by Elassona. Everyone agrees on this regulation that is being made today. I would like politically, historically, to see the depth of these arrangements, in other words how they put us in a new era. Thousands of our fellow citizens were living and living in Thrace in a grey zone of undermining, establishing an extreme conservative institutional regime. A customary law, which, on the part of the minority community, is seen as an element of identity and particular culture, but in reality it is a kind of refuge in which introvertry, suspicion of the central state, the state of Athens, exclusions and dependencies are cultivated. All this long-standing preservation of the flesh, the special regime and essentially of an exception regime is linked to the control practices of a closed community, with customers, with interests, with careers, with patriotism traders and with manipulation policies. Ignorance, indifference and inertia were gigantic over time, both in the central field of power, in the state of Athens and on the ground in Thrace, inside and out of a minority. The abolition of the sharia - even the non-total, but even the abolition of its compulsoryity - may mean a new principle for the life of the minority. Indicate the beginning of the end for the peculiar hostage, in which our thousands of fellow citizens live there, and mark the end of this grey approach, where, on the one hand, they face a state which is slow, inactive and often hostile and often hostile, and, on the other, face the multiformal rider of the Turkish consulate, once under the cloak of celebrity nationalism, once under the cloak of pan-Turkishism, once under the cloak of neo-Ottomanism. In the midst of this intercystinda are our minority fellow citizens and they are led to folding, introverting and escaping within a closed community, in which religious traits are exaggerated, according to a close reading of the letter of the Lausanne Treaty that speaks of customs. Exaggerating religious characteristics are maintained covered, quasi-protected, linguistic, cultural and ethnic characteristics, those which are not recognized by fanatics and post-walker manipulators. Just on the artificial and incomplete coverage of the multi-powered features of this community, the groups of interests, parties, local manipulations, state-run hysteroids are developed. Victims people and their undetermined rights: the Turkish-speaking Thraces, the Pomacians Thraces, the Roma Thraces, even the Greek-speaking, Christian citizens of Thrace. Christian Thraces can be said to be both surrounded and surrounded, living on parallel streets with their other fellow citizens. The great victim in this case was and will remain, as long as we do not give the great solutions and do not follow the path of democracy, the universality of democracy and the universality of constitutional order and constitutional protection for all Greek citizens. The lifting of the compulsory saria, which I hope all the wings of this House will be voted on today, opens the door to this community, so that it opens up to its fellow citizens and ends the exception status for the Thrace minority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. Last registered SYRIZA MEP Mr. Friend. Last and lucky, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a very interesting parliamentary debate we can see that there are shocks in the bill submitted by the government concerning the abolition of the compulsory application of the Sharia, that is to say, a transitional step and the introduction of the voluntary application of the sharia on the basis of the agreement between the two parties to the mushroom. From the outset, I would like to say that this is a very serious transitional step. Because the decision of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg will soon come about, which is likely to lead us to other facets. But in addition - and this is the most important one - the debate in this House has shown the need for us to move on soon to abolish the sharia. I heard Mr. Venizelo. I agree for the first time 100% with him. That is the case, I have said in Parliament's Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, in the debate on the bill. It should be regarded as a voluntary procedure, essentially jurisdiction which is not of a legal nature, of an arbitration nature and of mediation. Immediately afterwards, if the parties continue to disagree, they will, however, be able to appeal first to secular justice, to the people's courts. Mr Venizelos said so specifically and with an amendment. I would ask the Minister to take this amendment from Mr Venizelos into account. Mr. Treasury has denounced that we are doing all this because Erdogan has taken our ears. It's a police view of politics. On the contrary, Mr Javarras boldly said that we do not agree that we are stopping here and that the whole step must be taken: that the sharia should be abolished. What has happened since the judgment was taken by the Marios Ice, after the Court of Appeal and has actually created the problem with Sharia? What happened then and how do we now have such a great deal of consensus and the JRC and Potami have this perception of the abolition of the sharia? What's going on exactly? What has changed over the past five years in our country and such horizontal talks and forces have been liberated in Parliament? The change, in my opinion, is the governance of SYRIZA, the progressive governance, which has brought about the protection and development of human rights at the heart of political intervention. I would remind you that, in this government today, we have voted for the right of children born in Greece to take the Greek citizenship, we have voted for the right to gender change, the right to the political pact of gay couples and other areas that correspond to the country's European regularity. That is normality, not market strayers, but rights. We have this Europe in mind. Therefore, something has changed in our country and it also appears in the House. Something has changed because the Ice Bay decisions were then taken in a climate determined by the hard governance of Samaras - Venizelos. I would remind you that it was that time when the New Democracy voted for the Golden Dawn - take note of the Golden Dawn - voted for the well-known law concerning priests and after a few months the Golden Dawn was referred to as a criminal organisation, which is. So it is not today that criminal organization that determines the legislation in the current composition of the House. They are the democratic and progressive forces in their broadness and - I repeat - communication between other parties. So this strong message is coming to today's meeting. Human rights are backbone in progressive governance. It would be a mistake if we did not see how this climate of respect for minorities and human rights was cultivated. It's not just one of our own interventions. Of course, the Left, at difficult times - Mr Mustafa reminded us experientially - has fought for the rights of minorities, against a profitable policy of profitable nationalism, the "Greek" in Thrace and at a personal cost many left-wing officials at that time. Now we are in another phase for our country, a phase that has to do with exiting slowly and slowly from this loan contract, and at the same time, after that exit, we have been preparing a new face of democracy and human rights in our country. This is the message of this meeting. He doesn't look back, he looks forward. Furthermore - and this is of great importance in our opinion - it must be made clear that in today's maturity of our parliamentary debate, one recognises the cross-party consultation of the heads of political parties, Andreas Papandreou, Constantine Mitsotakis, Charila Florakis, in 1990, which was, if you like, the basis from which Constantine Mitsotakis began then, as Prime Minister, to open up issues of equality and democracy, cowardly but essentially for that period in Thrace. There one acknowledges the initiative of Gerasimos Arsenis to throw the bars as Minister of National Defence at the time. In this debate today, one acknowledges Anna Francis' experiment to educate the children of the Muslim minority, but basically not through the Korean schools. In this debate one recognizes George Papandreou's decision, as Foreign Minister at that time, to have the quota for the universities of the minority children. About two hundred kids every year enter the universities. In today's debate we recognize the effort of Ms. Anagnostopoulos, as Deputy Minister of Education, to establish - and was founded despite the popularisms that existed in Thessaloniki - the Department of Muslim Studies at the University of Thessaloniki. We also recognise the efforts of the current Minister, Mr Gavroglou, to upgrade the kindergarten of the minority in Thrace, and much more will come and will come - I repeat - as a result of the progressive governance that seeks wider consensus to resolve these issues. To conclude, I would also like to refer to an issue which is not an internal legal order such as the issues that I referred to earlier, but relates to some quality of these issues: it is the Macedonian one. This government, as you can see, not under pressure, is always playing in politics, but as a result of its worthy load, which wants to be developed throughout the whole of the Balkans, co-development with democracy, in the interests of all countries, which means that it will be an area of stability in a Europe that is now, unfortunately, growing, decaying, if one sees the far-right upwards and the Visegrad countries setting their own restrictions. So in this European area, the Balkans, they can disprove their history in the 20th century and prove, with difficulties - I repeat - but prove to be an area of stability and economic development, which means democracy and peace. This is the message of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u150	Before giving the floor to the Minister, Mr Constantopoulos, you requested the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, both the resolution on the functioning of the Islamic mosque in Athens and today's debate on the amendment of Article 5 of the draft Law 1920/1991 reflect in practice the long tradition of respect for the diversity of religions. And then, now, the Democratic Reconciliation has supported and contributed substantially to the finalisation of the legislation by means of interventions and proposals. It is a timely responsible attitude that proves in practice the firm position of our line of equality and unworthy religion. It is true that we have a recognised, under international law, Muslim minority in Thrace, on the basis of the Treaty of Lausanne, a minority governed by sharia in terms of family and hereditary law. Our Constitution guarantees full and absolute safeguarding of religious freedom at a level higher than the corresponding provision of the European Convention on Human Rights. That's the most important thing. Article 13 of our Constitution is dramatically more complete than Article 9 of that convention. The religious right of the Muslim minority is thus clearly defined. Today we are taking a step further. We clearly illustrate the role of mute in the domestic conflict and in the resolution of the marriage. We give legal spouses the right to choose how to resolve married life and how to settle their assets. This regulation does not take place within a climate of general indignation of the Muslim minority. I'd say the opposite. Significant and substantial steps have been taken in the legal way of resolving the family law of the Muslim minority. It is an essential regulation that adapts to European reality and restores equality to the maximum extent. Minister, with the amendment tabled by us, which was supported, I would say, in detail, by President Venizelos, we believe that Greek law is even more shielded in the Muslim minority and you must accept it. It is very important that the Greek court ratifys and monitors the decision of the mob. I would say that the execution of the judgment following its publication by the Greek court at the seat of the moufi. Finally, we in the Democratic Reconciliation are voting for this bill and we stress the need for dialogue in the adoption of the presidential decree following the publication of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u154	Here, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the draft 'One of Muslim Religious Officers' bill, the following conclusions have been drawn to me. Firstly, the Senate Hall may have been succinct in presenting a debate on another level. In fact, we have enjoyed the personal responsibility, the responsibility of the parties towards an issue that I would say was imagining at first difficult, but at the end of the day, when there is the intention of developing a real dialogue, we find the way to agree on it self-evidently. The self-evident thing is the defence of human rights, as demonstrated by the number of speakers. I will, however, look particularly at the flagship form of Mustafa Mustafa, which is nothing but the soul of the Left. A little differentiated from this climate, which we said is an exemplary climate for the debates in 2018, to be changed, I would say that it was a dark moment when fascism's extremities spoke here about athletics and truthfulness of the political system and the President-in-Office has not heard this hybridous storm. We should be careful and reflexes operated in any case. Finally, what I will have to show is that there has really been a constant high-level, I would say, without the reason being too much, for all the speakers, especially the last who have closed this sitting. It is a wish and faith in this spirit that we continue at all plenary sessions, because this must be our country and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u156	I'd like to ask a question. Mr Emmanuelides, to which President-in-Office have you referred?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u157	To breakfast.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u158	No, to me. Good. Please, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague, Mr Mustafa, said, today is a good work, it is also in the climate of the holiday season and the first - I think - of the plenary bill this year. I think it was extremely important not only for the agreement, but for each one to be able to say more personal approaches to this issue. I, at least, come out extremely rich in this debate, more rich in understanding the complexity of this problem. I still believe that our scientific knowledge of the minority in Thrace remains incomplete, not only of us themselves, but of our society as well. It's a complex matter. Fortunately, we have many who work in this direction. The scientific approach together with the experiential approach helps us to understand the present characteristics of this minority. I say this because with all due respect to other colleagues, I think experiential things are important, but they are not enough. For example, 70% of religious marriages continue in this Chamber - 30% of political marriages to be an issue to investigate and understand, not to blame, obviously. I say this again, to highlight the synonymity of reality. It is obvious - and others have said so - that our proposal does not solve all the problems. It does not solve problems which have arisen consciously within a policy of repression, within a policy of denying identity, within a policy of human rights abuse and, ultimately, a deep anti-democratic regime that has been implemented for so long. Obviously, there are very serious problems. There are very serious problems, of course, which cannot be solved by legislation alone, yet the legislative arrangements, as we know, help very much. The issue we always have on such initiatives is that we should be able to have this balance between efforts to implement the universal principles and values with social differentiations, for which Mr Doines spoke more in detail. This is always an extremely complex problem, how one can have that balance. The initiative we have taken on the pilot project with kindergartens, for example, has at its core this particular anxiety to be able to have that balance. In other words, children should learn Greek, but in some way, through the assistant, kindergarten, to be able to communicate in their mother tongue their problems with kindergarten. Mr Venizelos - I will come to his prototype - has used a very good expression, which I would like to adopt. He said that labs are in favour of abolishing. Laboratory! But society, fortunately, I would say, is not a laboratory, because the characteristic of workshops, experiments, is that you're setting up situations that you want to measure, without being affected by the environment. We are, in fact, in favour of abolition, and that is what we should look forward to. But here, there is something that Mr Xydakis touched on to some extent and I want to stress. What I would like to say is that when there are no consensual procedures in the minority, minority is maintained. Never a minority leaves its identities behind when the central authority takes so-called 'fair decisions'. We all understand that. And the minority in Thrace has every right to have no confidence in the central authority. Let us start with this. And this matter is not an officer, it's a history. And that's all over it. It has also been done in our country, etc., etc. So the big question is how central power will gain the confidence of the minority, not how central power will do de and well all those things that it thinks are right, which respond to universal values and pressure the minority to follow. It is a very delicate balance again, but if we do not have it at all times in our minds, the minority always revolves into more conservative positions. We are saying this because we in the Committee on Educational Affairs, but also on our own at the Ministry, wanted to talk with a lot of people, some of whom we were aware of. But we tried to explain, explain, move, etc. I would like to read to you the list of contacts we have made, some of which have also been in the Committee on Forums. We had contact with the Mufts of Thrace, with the Association of Priests of Islamist religion, with the Association of Educational Muslim Religion, with the Association of Minority Scientists, in the direction of the Muslim Studies of the Department of Theology at the University of Thessaloniki, with the metropolitan Associations of Thrace, with the Greek Union for Human Rights, with the National Commission for Human Rights, with teachers from the Legal School of Democritus University and obviously, with various individuals who play a specific role. So when we say consent, it doesn't mean we convinced people to change positions. We persuaded people to move, elsewhere a little bit, elsewhere a lot. Most of all, however, I think that we have convinced ourselves of our own uprightness and an attempt to resolve these things in consultation with the minority. That is why we are saying that after the consultation of the Committee on Forestry and the Committee on Forestry, we should not accept any additions or amendments. The reason we say this is because we do not want to be surprised. Watch out. I think that Mr Venizelos' amendment has too many positive elements. But it's a surprise thing. It is something that has been tabled since the discussions that have been held, and it is a surprise. I think it would be a mistake to surprise the minority right now. So what I would suggest on the subject of the amendment - and indeed it is a commitment - is, as in the case of the mehir to which we have not found a legally credible solution, such as on a number of issues that have been raised on the content of the Presidential Decree - we have incorporated it in the committee, because in time it has been tabled and the people have heard it in the consultation - that a round of discussions should begin with the parties throughout the world, and that I, in two months, undertake to bring this House up to date on the results of this consultation. This means that an amendment can also be tabled to a bill. I say this so that we can convince a world that we do not say something and then do something that is two clicks more ahead. It is a conservative step, but the commitment that in two months' time, after the debates have been completed, to come back to Parliament, I think it would cover us all. I say this because political consensus can often be much easier than social consensus. What we have achieved is the difficult, but fragile. I would say to protect today so that we can take the next step. Thank you all, indeed, very much for today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset and on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Amendment of Article 5 of 24.12.1990 Act of Legislative Content of the "Muslim Religious Operations" (A' 182) ratified by Article alone of Law 1920/1991 (A' 11)'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u169	Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Amendment of Article 5 of the Act of 24.12.1990 of the "Muslim Religious Operations Legislation" (A' 182), which was ratified by Article only of Law 1920/1991 (A' 11), was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u173	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u178	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u182	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u187	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Amendment to Article 5 of the Act of 24.12.1990 of the "Muslim Religious Operations Legislation" (A'182) ratified by Article only of Law 1920/1991 (A'11)" was accepted by a majority in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u191	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u196	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘Amendment to Article 5 of the Act of 24.12.1990 of the "Muslim Religious Operations Legislation" (A' 182) validated by Article No. 1920/1991 (A' 11)’, was accepted by a majority, in principle, of the articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u197	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u198	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-01-09-S1-commons.u199	With the consent of the House at 18.48 the sitting is closed for Thursday 11 January 2018 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
