ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 11-7-2018, the minutes of the PRD meeting of Wednesday, 11 July 2018 (meeting) concerning the election of the H' Vice-President of Parliament were ratified by the Bureau.]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Reforming the institutional framework of Local Government - Enlargement of the Republic - Strengthening the Participation - Improving the economic and development functioning of the TABs" - Arrangements for the modernisation of the framework for the organisation and operation of the NSAs. - Arrangements for the effective, more rapid and uniform exercise of the responsibilities for the award of citizenship and naturalisation - Other provisions of the RIS. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 July 2018 that the draft law should take place in two to three single sessions on principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree with this decision of the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. Let's start with the classic distribution. The SYRIZA rapporteur will first speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u3	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u4	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u5	Wait, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u6	Madam President, as you know, last night an amendment was tabled by sixteen colleagues from the SYRIZA, so that before the rapporteurs begin to know what the amendments and the position of the government are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u7	Mr Minister, you have the floor for as long as you want to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard a moment ago yesterday, an amendment from sixteen colleagues on a quite important issue which we have discussed many times. So I think I should be ahead of you to facilitate the debate that is going to take place. As you know, the basic logic of 'CLEARED I', the bill we are discussing, among other things, is the separation of self-government elections, either from national elections or from European elections. That is precisely the logic that led us to say that the elections must be held on the second Sunday of October, as was the case for so many years - it was a request for self-government - and it facilitated the taking over of the new principles resulting from the elections on 1 January each year. This provision remains as it stands. Of course, there is one point that is that, because we come from the former regime, how we will go to the new one. So the question that asked us is how were we going to implement this provision now, in view of the fact that most of the current principles have already been completed and, as we know, in May - they were on track - the mandate of the current authorities expired and we would have self-government elections. There has been a great debate on this matter. In fact, I remember Mr Vorides, who said: 'On the one hand you said that you wanted to disconnect the self-government elections from the European elections, because it is another project', and that was correctly understood by Mr Vorides, and that is the aim of the bill, 'but on the other hand you did so in October, when he is known to coincide with the end of the constitutional term of the present government'. So we'd still go into double elections, and that's a reality. Because the planning, commitment and direction of the government is to exhaust its mandate, to go in September 2019 to the elections and was therefore very likely until we had double elections in October. At the same time, a series of self-governmentists told us that it was a kind of surprise to change something that was well-known, while a criticism was being made saying that a long five-year term of office was even longer, adding a few months further. I therefore believe that the transition should indeed take place in the new regime of separation in a smooth manner. Therefore, accepting this proposal and going as we knew it... [[Noise - applause from the New Democracy Wing]] I'm glad, because you see the government hears you too. You see we're open to creative proposals, Mr. Voridis. You said it and acted. I don't know if it's fair, but it's done. However, I would also like to mention something else, which - I think - you have said so much more than the leadership of self-government has said. There is an under-represented rumour about the unconstitutionality of this provision, if, while the voters knew that the mandate of today's authorities would be five years, we will come and change it. We also had this debate in the CEN. I would like to inform you that the relevant services of this House have been reassuring. But we believe that we cannot play with such things. You may become accustomed to implicating justice in political matters. This is a friendly method.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u9	Come on, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u10	I'm glad we start laughing. We're gonna laugh too much today! We're gonna laugh too much today and tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u11	Come on, now. You'll stand up and tell them later. We'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u12	I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u13	Now restrain yourself from your enthusiasm. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u14	I understand and I finish by saying this: you had a record. On the one hand you blamed us for the postponement of the elections in October 2019 and on the other hand the Chief told you, speaking to the self-government: "Look to see, this law on the introduction of the simple act will not be implemented, because we will have come out, that is, you as a New Democracy. Of course you must understand that self-government elections will also take place on a simple analogue and election basis in October 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u15	Thank you. We'll start like I said. To open up the system for the registration of speakers, which, as you know, will end after the second rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u16	Madam President, I would like to speak for two minutes as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u17	So you can say what?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u18	On this subject, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u19	Why, did another Parliamentary spokesman ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u20	For two minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u21	So you want to be heard. Here, then, you have the floor for three minutes, so we can hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u22	Minister, we're really surprised. What you said a moment ago contrasts with what you yourself said over the past period. Firstly, you supported an amendment which the sixteen Members should normally support. Suddenly, we have seen yesterday an amendment of sixteen members of the SYRIZA, which has exactly the opposite reasoning to what you have had so long in a major issue about the timing of the self-government elections. In fact, this morning, when you notice rather that it does not fully serve the small-party plans of the government majority, this amendment is changing again and the time of the local elections goes on Sunday, May 26, 2019, with an obvious aim and design, probably, Mr. Tsipras, to proceed to four-fold elections. What's going on, Minister, I don't know if it was your goal or Mr. Tsipras's. If it was your goal, you are the Greek Parliament and the Greek people. If it is Mr Tsipras's name and you were asked last night, you had to resign today on the basis of this development. There can be no third development. We now have an amendment in front of us that really leaves us speechless. You said that the European elections could not be held along with the self-government elections. I'm guessing you didn't say it for five years after, which, in any case, could be new legislation on all these issues, but you said it to be done immediately, no matter whether there were any criticisms here about whether it was positive or negative. In fact, the amendment comes after the end of all the relevant parliamentary committees. Sixteen Members are coming, on your own or Mr Tsipras' request, and they bring an amendment last night that actually proves that you are putting self-government under small-scale toys. This is not how the country can go. Self-government needs reform, to discuss all these issues together. We cannot change day after day, hour after hour, time for the self-government elections, based on how it is likely to be possible to become the self-government elections, the European elections or the national elections. And because I read in the various scenarios that you probably have is one of your goals to capture our own space, the area of the Central Left, the Democratic Reconciliation, the Change Movement, to tell you that whenever you do the self-government elections, Mr Skourletis, our space will be united and strong both in the self-government elections and in the European elections. These tiny toys do not affect anyone, they are understood by the Greek people. You are now exposed to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u23	Thank you. Ms. Thleritis has the floor for 15 minutes now. Now that Mrs. Thalerite's on her way, she's opening the system. Half of you said "open" and half of you "start". Do what you want. It will be closed after the end of the speech of the second rapporteur. The system is open anyway, because it has been opened beforehand. Here, Mrs. Welleritis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u24	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, after a long period of debate and exchange... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, please, be quiet. Everyone you want to talk to, go out and say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u26	After a long period of discussion, exchanges of views and approaches, consultations with the relevant bodies of self-government, civil society, after hearing the bodies, but also the debate that took place at committee meetings, we are here today to discuss an extremely important draft law of the Ministry of Interior. Let us see what the government's targets are with the deposit of this bill. To institutionalise the first steps of an overall reform of local government by selecting those areas of political legislation that can be directly implemented. This also marks the arithmetic index 'I', 'COLIDEN I', because the government has repeatedly stressed... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. It is not polite for a rapporteur or rapporteur. One cannot thus express one’s opinions and thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u27	A little respect for the speaker, please! Gentlemen from New Democracy, please, go out and talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u28	I repeat, then. Because the Government has repeatedly stressed that any reform of local government cannot proceed without a substantial restructuring of the political and administrative system. There should therefore be a substantial transfer of powers, responsibilities and resources from the centre to the regional and local public institutions, and the size of this change should be such that it will overthrow the traditional formation of the modern Greek state, which has been formed in a bureaucratic, anti-democratic structure that has produced a relationship of distrust and distrust with citizens since 1830. Our aim, therefore, is to shape the institutional and political conditions for an effective state, multi-level governance and inter-level cooperation. Why does the government not introduce a comprehensive reform now? Because it simply took into account the existing circumstances, the constitutional commitments, the fiscal and financial data of the country and the quotas and the limits and the recruitment of staff, that is to say, that municipalities and communities could not easily hire staff. Well, one of the basics...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u29	Mr. Loverdo, Mr. Kumucaco, would you please step out? You talk all the time! Finally! There's a speaker who has one. Don't you know how that works?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u30	There are many of us here, Madam President! It's my fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u31	I don't care. Stay silent, Mr. Kumucako.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u32	One of the institutional basic conditions for this reform is the completion of the conditions for an effective and democratic distribution of individual areas of public policy between the levels of administration, which will result from the redefinition of the concept of local affairs as defined in the Constitution. In other words, in order to move forward with deeper changes in terms of competence, it is necessary to prioritise the revision of the Constitution. Another essential condition is that conditions should be established to enable local government to acquire new economic and human resources. And here I think we have had enough of our experience of the implementation of the 'KALIKARAT' reform. I would also like to refer to the fact that the 'Kallikaratis' was not accompanied by resources or by human resources and, indeed, it was unable to implement either the ELLADA support programme and therefore had a number of problems in its implementation. On the other hand, we cannot leave unresolved issues of vital importance to local government, which have been a path to local government for years, and which is why we are choosing the partial and gradual implementation of the reform. Moreover, the recovery of Greece, which was marked by the exit from the memoranda, will facilitate the further process for such reforms, and I am thinking mainly of human and economic resources. In view of all this, we are putting the foundations forward, we are not expecting any kind of machine god to resolve issues and we are setting up interministerial committees to speed up the process of decentralising responsibilities. However, the key political issue and, ultimately, the question is to consult and agree whether and to what extent we are really pursuing and want decentralisation of competences, particularly at the level of public policies. If the answer is yes, we want to move on to the constitutional review, then we need to see which of these articles should be reviewed and in which direction. I hope that the parties in the democratic arch will agree on this. Because if they agree in their turn, it means that the next House will be reviewative. Otherwise, how will we abolish the decentralised administration so persistently demanded by the Greek Committee of Regions? Or should the government finally proceed only with the distribution of powers that do not require constitutional revision? Before I refer to the areas that this bill introduces, I would like to highlight a number of issues that are of particular importance to us, in order to understand what the situation is today. What, then, do we have from the implementation of the 'CAPTER', 'COLICAT' and eight years' memorandum policies? The majority anti-democratic system, the dominance-centre model, the centralisation and operation of the OTAs at the expense of internal decentralisation - we all know that they have gathered at the headquarters of each of the Callicratic municipalities - and the multi-corrugation of controls, so that the OTAs are suffocated from the controls. In other words, municipalities and regions have changed to a micrograph of the central state, thus bringing together political power, through spatial densification and the activation of policy ‘cartification’ processes at the level of organisation, representativeness and cross-party competition. This data we are trying to check with this reform. Let's see what the ten sections that "CLISTENS" brings. First, the introduction of the simple analogous, which has been debated a great deal. Why? Because we know very well that KALIKARATIS has maintained this deficit in democratic operation... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm not going to go on. I'm really sorry about the lack of respect on my face. I can't go on with that noise underneath. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u33	Mrs Theleritis, please reconcile with this situation, because otherwise you will not speak slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u34	KALIKARATIS, therefore, has maintained this democratic function deficit and, through the strengthening of the majority, we would say, a current electoral system, which also strengthened the demographic model. So what is the government doing? It is coming to cover this democratic deficit with the introduction of a mere actuarial. So this is a consistent demand from the Left. Is it just a fixed request from the Left? Oh, no. For the record, I would like to remind you of the CEDEFOP conferences by 2003. They had made majority decisions in favour of mere analogy. What did these decisions mean? That the trade unions then sought to dismantle self-government, as today's CEDEFOP leadership claims, or did they not understand what they were voting on? It is obvious that the current cruising change has a specific political and ideological sign. So this is a left-wing idea? Of course not. Because a mere proportional system is not only a fair electoral system that genuinely reflects real correlations in a local society. It does not only ensure greater transparency and the possibility of monitoring and the possibility of any choices at local level to have wider consensus. The problem today is that a combination that can in the first round get 20% or 30%, go to the second round and the mayor's candidate controls 60% of the municipal council. Is that democratic? That is why the majority of opposition has admitted in the committee debate that the current electoral system is not fair. For regardless of the percentages received by each mayor, his electoral system was 3/5 of the seats on the municipal or regional council. And we understand all the serious distortions in representation and degradation of the local democracy it created. Our aim is therefore, in addition to implementing a fair electoral system, to create the prerequisites for building a culture of compositions, partnerships and political convergences to tackle local problems. We need this to come to the local communities. It is necessary to express themselves, beyond large, and small municipal groups and citizens' movements, and to speak of local problems. That is why we could not justify how simple analogues can substantially contribute to the involvement of citizens in institutions - thresholds for political activation and participation. So this does not prevent citizens' political activation and participation, the threshold? And let us not forget that we are going through a memorial policy. Let us not forget that we are experiencing an enlarged and acute crisis in the political system and in the institutions, so also in the confidence of the citizens in the institutions of democracy. I now come to conclude the part of mere analogy, saying that it is a first step, even to deal with chronic sufferings of local government, such as customer relations, transactions, as has been said in committee, and I think that we are transparently opening the alliances between the different parties and not under the table, as has been done so far. I would also say that even for the term 'government' that Mr Voridis spoke yesterday, I would say that we should look at the analysis made by an academic, who is not the subject of SYRIZA, Mr Chlevos, who refers to the term 'government' and sets out the conditions, saying that so that we can really talk about the term 'government' with the English term, that is, that partnerships and networks are being developed and that we are talking about a concept of policy networks, we cannot speak with closed hierarchical shapes, as this does not favour local governance. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the difficulties of the New Democracy in accepting the introduction of a mere analogous. After all, it has always been in favour of the central state and we have not been surprised, I can say from the rapporteur's position, because self-government for the New Democracy is a field of State protection of the private sector, and I can say that no attempt has ever been made by this party, it has brought no reform, either on institutional issues, on employment or on environmental issues. The Qualified Opposition we understand. But we have a difficulty in understanding the Democratic Partnership, whose self-government party supported simply proportionally. While the rapporteur today acknowledges that the current system violates the popular mandate for equal voting, since the PASOK recognises it, and even has brought a proposal for a law on simple proportional representation in parliamentary elections, what is PASOK asking for at the moment? Not simply proportional to the restoration of this injustice and the deepening of democracy and the safeguarding of equality of vote, but something in between? If, indeed, this historic party, which has contributed substantially to upgrading and strengthening the institution of self-government in the country in the past, will today dare to vote on the simple analogue? The government was also accused of having done nothing about self-government and even that its only goal is to break it down. Reality denies the New Democracy. The government not only dismantled the municipalities, as New Democracy did with its own programmes, but it brought a series, such as the multi-brand plan, such as the financial aid - and not forget what was going on between 2010 and 2015, which had lost 60% of self-government - with "PHILDIM I" and "PHILDIM I" enough money for local government and enabled local government to exploit its real estate. If all of you, colleagues of the New Democracy, call them anything, then I challenge you to compare what you have done between 2010 and 2015 for local government. And we now come to strengthen intra-democratic and intra-regional decentralisation. The community plays a leading role, precisely in order to deal with the pathogens that "Kallikaratis has brought". What did he do? He brought all the responsibilities to the city's headquarters. We come to give life back to the community, which Kalikaratis has devastated. And how do we give her life? Firstly, by subtracting the community vote from the respective municipality, i.e. the municipal council, and by introducing a single vote in small communities, that is, under three hundred inhabitants. This allows local communities to be released from parties and parties and to become competent members and active bodies to represent them. On the other hand, what do we do? We are giving responsibilities, without disrupting the municipality's single self-government body, so that they take responsibility for planning and solving vital issues in their areas. Another serious breakthrough is the 40% quota to enhance women's participation in decision-making centres. The 40% quota in the total number of candidate municipal and regional councillors involved in the electoral process is a serious measure, a serious provision. Here I would like to refer to the argument you have put forward, that there are not enough women to send the ballots. I think that the argument is outdated, underestimates the extremely positive role of women in participation in the public. Where such provisions have been enacted, women have participated and have responded positively. That is why I call not only for Members but also for Members of the parties to the democratic arch to vote in favour of these two articles in the bill. Institutions: I would say that the institution of the consultation committees in municipalities with more than five thousand inhabitants is being upgraded. The provisions of the referendum and of the KALIKARATI are being reintroduced and finalised, both on the municipal council's side and on the initiative of voters, i.e. voters. This is how we think democracy is progressing, when all the voices, disagreements and objections are heard in a local society. We think it is a very important tool for involving and energising citizens. Also a large section is the categorization of the municipalities. There was a very long debate in the committees. Apart from the fairest and most administrative treatment of the CFPs, we would say, fiscal treatment for the allocation of the financial resources of the CFP, but, if you like, for a number of subsidies, funding, but also for the administration and operation of the municipalities itself, we think that this classification will help very much, which takes into account several criteria, which are detailed in the provisions and after the allocation of powers, we will now be able to talk about a typology of municipalities, which we will see in this regard how their needs will be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u35	Mrs. Theleritis, try to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u36	I'm done. Give me two minutes. The development role of local government is strengthened through possibilities for cooperation for projects of general interest and energy. I would like here to clarify the confusion that exists with regard to the ATT Supervisor, that is to say, the creation of this self-sufficient service provided by KALIKRATS, but it did not work. I would like to stress two points. Firstly, supervision by the decentralised administrations is disconnected and ensured through the independent committee with a scientific, we would say, adequacy. I also stress that this surveillance is clearly limited to legality and not feasibility, which has often been the case with decentralised administration. Technical support for the EBRD shall be provided through programming contracts with the EBRD and the EBRD. I will not go into the areas that exist with regard to waste management, due to a lack of time. I think that the amendment concerning the fragmentation of the Athens constituency should be voted on, because we need to ensure that we do not have these large figures. Because this does not guarantee the locality of policy and the proximity of citizens' communication with the elected representatives of each region, nor is social control and accountability guaranteed. We also know very well that when we have large-scale elections, relations between candidates and elected by major economic interests are favoured. Finally, I think that fragmentation of the region was a central demand both from the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership. I would like to believe that this will be voted on, that is to say, what the government does to do so too and finally to respond to this permanent request. I'm done. Despite the specific war which has been unfolded and which we would say is also taking on a character of ideological and political features and many times and divisional, with the responsibility of the New Democracy, it dares and lays the foundations for the start of this reform: it establishes a mere analogous to national elections. It is time for the self-government elections also to adopt the simple analogue. It is time to deal with strong interest structures created in primary and secondary representation structures, against issues of local complexity and trade. The simple analogue will fight them. I think it was very typical of Spiros Halvazis' speech at the 2004 CEDEFOP conference, which says how the simple analogue will fight these. We are aiming at the genuine representation of citizens and the overthrow of customer balances in self-government. I conclude by paraphrasing Calvos's verse from the "Is Samon", where he says "the freedom will be virtue and bold", saying that democracy wants virtue and boldness.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u37	I would ask the rapporteurs and the special speakers to keep the time, because they were written three to four ninety minutes ago. We won't make it. Some of our colleagues will speak for two and three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u38	We need to talk the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u39	That's a good solution, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. That's where you recognize the parity in speaking the same time! What can I say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u40	There was another climate in the committee. There was tolerance for all the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u41	I'll give you half an hour, because you have a lot to say. Let's see if you can get him out of time. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting could have a title: in the agitated mind of the panic, Mr Tsipras. That's why we're talking today. Because how can one explain the fact that the government is tabling a draft law, Article 6, which reads as follows: ‘For the first implementation of the present, the first round of the electoral process in the posts referred to in paragraph 1’ is self-government, ‘it will take place on 13 October 2019 and the establishment of the new authorities will take place on 1 January 2020. The current municipality period shall be extended until 31 December 2019 and the municipality's term of office shall be considered as complete for all consequences.’ That's from Thursday to this morning. But then, yesterday afternoon, in particular, about 21.25; our sixteen good colleagues from SYRIZA inspired something new and said to see it again. They said: ‘Specially for the 2019 elections, the deadline for the previous subparagraph is 1 April and, indeed, it is replaced’, that is, the deadlines are replaced by ‘Article 9(4)’, i.e. we have a reintroduction of the previous regime. What was the previous regime? The previous regime was: the first round of self-government elections in the European elections, the second round next, following the European elections. That is what our good colleagues told us yesterday at 21.25 yesterday. But something has been rethinked by these good colleagues until 12:45 this morning and they have withdrawn the amendment of 21.25 and have said that they should change it and do so as follows: the first round of the self-government elections should take place one week before the European elections, but the second round should coincide with the European elections. And, oh of the miracle, the government was maturely recovered and said to accept this today. For laughing and crying, literally at the same time! For laughing and crying! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And be careful. "What a misfortune, while you are burnt for the fine and great works, this unrighteous luck always encourages and succeeds to refuse you, to prevent you from bewildering habits and petty practices, and indifferences." This is dedicated. Because how much better to say than Cavafy says here? How much more suitable can we say? The Minister has left for the Soussa, to give him satraps and such, but be careful here, therefore, the Minister made a wide-ranging argument in favour of the move of the elections. He came and said to us: 'Can we let the message blurred by identifying the self-government elections with the European elections? Oh, no! We'll move it.' And we asked him: You're going to move it, but, you know, you're going to take it to a suspicious time when self-government can coincide with parliamentarians. Won't the message blurred? At first he said: "You are suspicious and imaginable." Then he said: "Hey, well, can happen too." But now what did he say? "Hey, do not blur it with the parliamentary elections, go back to the European elections."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u43	So your opinion has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u44	Listen, what is happening is certainly not that it has been moved by the constitutional argument that is actually based, only that has been developed. You think you suddenly considered the constitutional argument last afternoon?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u45	Maybe he read cavafy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u46	So, but Kavafis does not solve constitutional issues. It solves other, existential, that the Minister has now to resolve, if any. The constitutions with Kavafi will not solve them. So take note now of what has happened, ladies and gentlemen? It's very simple and very clean. At first Mr. Tsipras thought: Can I have the opportunity to take them in September and put them together to confuse them? How am I supposed to confuse them? To run our own mayors, to run the self-government, which is probably or defeated New Democracy in their overwhelming majority, and SYRIZA has nothing to run with, not to be concerned with parliamentarians, so I am taking them on a regular basis. Put it there. That was a matter. The point was, do you get to the parliamentary elections? Because if you do not get there and the Members of Parliament go earlier, then you are at the risk of this: and that is not to have the simple analogue, as we have committed ourselves to changing it, because we will be government by then. It is therefore an nullity of the simple analogue, but also an nullity of this advantage. Last night Mr. Tsipras rethinked it. In a panic, mentally disturbed situation, he said: let me turn it back, put it together with the European elections so that I can identify MEPs and the European elections, and see how confuse I am. The answer is one and simple: You are in panic, you are on a runway, you are in collapse. You're working on self-government, you're using it in a disgraceful way. It is unacceptable what the government does, the way it plays with the institutions. That is what we must condemn, ladies and gentlemen. That is what we must declare, that we refuse to engage in this imperial practice. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Beyond the funnyness of the matter, there is a comedian, pragmy, we would say, on the other hand, that there is also the drama of full-time and subjugation of the institutions in Mr Tsipras' sad little-party plans, but that Mr Surletis has agreed to carry out, which, if anything, has today canceled a long personal effort to keep a personal seriousness within this whole thing. It was canceled here today. Because when they do, and you're Minister, you don't come to support them. You say, "Excuse me. I can't do that. Next, please." And you're saving your personal dignity. Otherwise, you're going for the satraps. But I come to what is important today. What did you confess already? It's important. You confessed to defeat, the discounted defeat from you. Why do you confess to her? Because, obviously, it is precisely because you know that, whatever the parliamentary elections take place, you will in fact lose. So the simple analogue and the "CLINENS" will be cancelled. You are bringing it to the European elections, which is now the extreme limit for Members of the European Parliament, even though what you think suits you, again micro-groups. I come to just proportionally. This bill is a big bill. He's been proclaimed for two and a half years, and he's been coming with a lot of it now. Is anyone asking, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem of self-government was simply proportional? So from your contacts with the citizens, from your contacts with the municipal councillors, with the mayors, with the regional advisors, with the experts of the government, what they called you as a problem with self-government is simply proportional? We've heard a thousand issues. We heard that for a mayor to do a gym in a middle municipality it takes four and five years because of bureaucracy because of a system of malfunctioning. We have heard this multitude of responsibilities, which no one no longer understands what responsibilities are to the 1st degree, what responsibilities are to the 2nd degree, what responsibilities are to the decentralised administration. So you have maximum left reformists, three and a half years to build, and instead you do not work today with this bill on competence. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Listen. To unblock responsibility, we don't want seven hundred years. Mr Skourletis will tell you here - because you have not read the bill or, if you have read it, which I am sure you have done so, obviously, you have missed this - that there is in it - he says - and he recommends a committee to deal with the issue of competences. Why recommends it three and a half years later and did not recommend it at the time it had to be mature today and have a solution? That's gone. You are not concerned, for example, with issues that are crucial today and are the issues of waste management, namely those that are primarily local government jobs and which you are not intervening with. May I tell you more things they put and where can anyone see them from whatever perspective? The sub-funding, the sub-secretory. Even in these, which are constantly heard by local government bodies, are you intervening? Zero. After three and a half years what you come and say is the simple analogue. Who put this to you? Nobody! Not only did you, but you, the left, the sensitive one, the speaking and listening to all the social actors, those who listen to society very carefully, those who listen to devotion - and indeed to you, is the almost gospel of what position you will take - in this case, with almost complete identification, unanimously, all the collective bodies of self-government come to you and what do they say to you? "This is a disastrous bill for self-government." Why don't you listen to them? They don't know? They don't have an opinion? Haven't the problems lived? Aren't they concerned? Let's see. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] There was only the Potato! 80% with 90% of the mayors say that and, respectively, of the municipal councillors. But the regional councillors are respectively. But, if you'll excuse me, they're your mayors, those who say that. They're SYRIZA mayors who call this. Excuse me, can't we hear anything? We're not listening. Well... To get to the arguments now. What's the point? The argument is one, ladies and gentlemen. One is a bleaching from morning to night: the equivalency of voting. That's it. I said, and I say again, all the political systems, but also all those who have referred to political systems, all those who have written about the political systems, from Plato to Hegel, from Aristotle to Augustine, all who have written about them, always raise as their main concern for the functioning and selection of political systems their effectiveness. There was no one who had a different approach to this. The targeting of all in this is common and logical, since with the political systems you choose leaderships and the leaderships must produce a positive political product for the people. So everyone agrees on that. They disagree on methods, disagree on how to choose, disagree on many things, but on the target they do not disagree. So what do you say? Equality of vote. Yes, sir. So I ask you. With what you bring here, which ensures equality of vote, will the political result of governance be better or worse? That is what you need to answer, what will be the political result. And I am asking more specific questions, because in so many discussions on this no one answers, what happens when a mayor is elected directly from the people - why do you let him be elected in two rounds, so he has direct legitimacy - but at the same time he cannot obtain a majority on his municipal council? Also, imagine this: Mayor two rounds, his combination takes the lead and the mayor loses the second Sunday. So even less his intervention on the city council. And the city council is standing in front of him. If we were in this House and the government had no confidence, what would happen? There is a way out: the elections. Parliament is falling apart and we are going to elections. What's going to happen in the municipality? Native municipal council, it does not collide with the mayor, the mayor cannot be replaced, there is no appeal to elections, a government deadlock in the municipality. Who's paying her? The public. Are you concerned about this or not? Oh, no. Second question for you. What's gonna happen? Because you legislate. The planning of technical projects in a municipality, which has so far been voted on as a whole, is now being voted on - a project and a majority must be formed on a elected municipal council with a simple analogue project. Question: How will these municipal councils resist local and over-local economic interests, thus formed, with such majorities, when they have to make a project? You are today enacting insolence and corruption in the municipalities. That is what you are doing today with this piece of legislation and we have not heard the slightest response, apart from this ideological, 'equivalence of vote', as if - and I beg your pardon - there is no democracy where there is an enhanced majority and democracy we will start it in Greece with Skourletis today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u48	Until now, there has been no democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u50	It's starting today!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u51	That's right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u52	See, I bring arguments in favour of your minister. What else can I do? So, in reality today, the transaction is also being regulated by specific provisions. For example, the transfer of municipal councillors from a party to a party, which was banned before and now, for example, the appointment of an anti-corporate by another party, but with the agreement of the party from which they come - they legislate - the definition of a counter-regionist now. But the transaction of personal, political, extravagant, at all levels, that's what you legislate today! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So it is clear what is going on, the consequences are clear and the question is why you are doing so. Because you cannot understand that you are so naive that you do not understand what difficulties you will put down local self-government. Why do you get rid of it? Two are the answers here and I'd say they're both parallel. One touches on each other. The first is that you are serving micropartial targets. SYRIZA doesn't have a presence in local government. As a dear person has said, you have taken the government, but not the authority. So you have the government, but not the local government, and you need to give your self-government, the few. The role of your self-government can only be given through the unblocking of self-government. Small-scale targeting is precisely influenced by the way you dealt with the issue of election date.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u53	Mr. Voridis, shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u54	I shall conclude, Madam President, in three minutes. The second reason is that it is registered in your general attack on institutions: Attacking justice and attempting to manipulate - most of the examples - attack on independent news reports, independent media. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] I like that, but I want you to explain... Once there's a division, I'll explain it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u55	Mr. Voridis, don't explain. Finish your location.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u56	I shall conclude, Madam President. But it is important that colleagues understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u57	You don't have to!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u58	Never exactly does your reaction justify the argument, because in your mind those who do not applaud you must be ridiculed, those who do not write for you are intertwined and interests. When they're in favour of you, they're independent journalists. He's never targeted a government in and out of the way you've done it. This, yes, runs counter to the independence and freedom of the institution of information and objective journalism. That is what you are doing, because you are used to military journalism - that is the reality - because you want them to bow to you, because you do not tolerate criticism, because that is what you see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u59	Now that you bring it up so badly, close it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u60	The third is the attempt to attack the independent authorities. Do you remember that you went to do them disciplinary checks by the Minister when the independent authorities did not perform the duties of the Minister? The fourth is the attack now on local self-government. It is all registered within a project to manipulate independent institutions, which must be subordinated to the great state and ultimately to the party that is manipulating the state. That's your idea. Bad lies. Why hide it anyway? You all have a communist past. That perception you have served. That's what you think. That's what you're thinking. That's what your heart has in it. So now why say it's not like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u61	Mr. Voridis, please. It's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u62	I'm done. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u63	All right! Talk about the bill, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u64	To compare our past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u65	I'll tell about the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u66	He's sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u67	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Then I'll let you know how many speakers are and take the case in your hands!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u68	I, you know, am very willing to recognize the practicable remorse you have made, professing the troika and the memorials. I recognize all this. And that's why we need to give you, give you something to trust you and be careful. And we are. We're just saying you've been out for hours - all this. I conclude with two words on the issue of the partitioning and voting of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u69	Mr. Voridis, please. You've been talking for twenty-five minutes. You can't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u70	I'm done with two words, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u71	You do not respect your colleagues too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u72	I respect them and I'm done. But you must acknowledge, Madam President, because you are giving me a resignation for this - and with full respect for what the Conference of Presidents has decided - that we had said and asked for the SYRIZA rapporteur and I, in fact, the great majority of this House - to give more time to the rapporteurs because it is a very large bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u73	First time, is there such a bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u74	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u75	All bills are huge. What can we do? Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u76	I'll be done in a minute. I will only say two words about the partition and the vote of foreigners. The New Democracy has been placed in favour of the division of the major regions. We have said that on several occasions. And it's our firm placement. At the same time, we have said that there can be no intervention in the electoral law every month or, as everyone wants, every month. Election law is a single thing. You have already made an intervention in the basic electoral law with a mere analogy. Now you want to bring in a second fragmentation for the partitioning of the large regions. You commit yourself, the Minister made a commitment yesterday - whatever this government's commitments are worth, about zero - that within five months it will also have rules for the vote of foreigners. You may then remember that you want to regulate something about political money. Yeah, but that's not how it works. This must be done uniformly. We have said, therefore, once we have an agreement on this and once you say that on the major issue of the vote of foreigners you also have an agreement and you just want to see it again, come and see it as a single regulation of the electoral law as a whole. And since in five months' time you will be ready, we will vote together on the foreigners' vote and the partitioning of the constituencies when you are ready for a comprehensive intervention in the law. So we do not understand why you are actually insisting that you refer to the bells and deny something that is a matter of equality, equality and self-determination of the democratic right of foreign residents to vote in their regions. That is why we tabled a proposal for a law in 2016. It wasn't discussed. In 2018 we tabled a proposal for a law. We will put you to the problem again with an amendment we will put before you on this issue, so that we can see when hypocrisy will finally end and you will legislate on the vote of foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, you are probably all registered as speakers, as well as others who have probably given you the identities. Now, how will it happen, I cannot understand it, and that is why I call on those of you who want to talk, when your time comes - with seven minutes, I exclude it - to take an active position for those who violate the time. I won't make the ranger. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u78	You're presided over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u79	You're presided over!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u80	Yes, me, sir. What do you want? Can I turn the microphone off to Mr. Voridis? Sit down! You have no sense of where you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u81	But you're presiding. Are you conscious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u82	Come on, please! Come on, get it over with! So we'll see the twenty hours we need, where we'll find them. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u83	Minister, if I remember correctly - disprove me if I am wrong - this bill went through the Ministerial Council, right? Yes or no? Has he been through the Ministerial Council? Don't you remember? You don't want to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u84	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u85	So you'll tell me. Did he come in? Come in. All bills are institutionally passed. The government's function, ladies and gentlemen, is collective, as is responsibility, says the Constitution. On that day, when this bill was discussed at the Ministerial Council, and it was heard - I imagine - the Minister of the Interior argues - that SYRIZA's basic argument concerning the non-binding of self-government elections with the European elections was rejected in order to avoid confusion and to clarify the landscape, Mr Tsipras, as Prime Minister and President-in-Office of the Council, took a decision, which was made yesterday by his seventeen MPs. And, oh, the miracle, meanwhile, Mr. Minister of the Interior, two and three conferences in the CEDEFOP and the EIA, the joint conferences, he bailed out - because that is what you did, Mr. Skourletis, bailed out - in favour of non-associated - hear, hear! - the self-government elections with the European elections, so as not to be confused with a message. And we, of course, disagreed and documented our disagreements. We disagreed, we understood: I say, they will be concerned about the rise of populism and the extreme right in Europe and they want people to clarify the message, go right to the European elections and to the self-government elections. What happened between yesterday's committee and last night? Two amendments, one is by night and one is by day. Ladies and gentlemen, you have signed 'night the dams are seen by day and laughing'. "We'll laugh a lot," said the Minister of the Interior. But, "he'll laugh, whoever's laughing last." What really happened? The self-evident thing. "Great turbulence, good condition." The Prime Minister likes to do this in general. He realized that his cabs aren't enough. Because, yes, in January 1915, you were believed by the people and by HISBIA that you were going to abolish for both the taxfree and the pensions and wages, for all, "I don't pay", all on the track. The people believed you. In September with the Thessaloniki program? The people believe you again. You brought him memos. You drained everything there is and there isn't. You abolished the ESS. Households, businesses, hospitals, regions, municipalities, resources were drained from everywhere. The resources have been drained from everywhere! What are you going to say to the world? That I'll get the pensions six months later? ‘E, and?’ The other one will say, "You've done away with me, you've lied to what you said." So, then, the mirrors on the natives and taxis are algae, which people no longer spend on silk ribbons. You can't make fun of it and you know it, so you're afraid. Afraid of the collapse that's coming. So what's left of you if the cabs don't pass anymore? You still have to play with the institutions. "Hey, Pharisee hypocrites"! You're playing with local government. You're playing with democracy. You're playing with the elections. You're playing with the people's vote. You're not embarrassed at all. Because they are, mechanics, and be careful - and incompetent engineers, incompetent manufacturers. That is why the amendment was tabled. Or not, Minister? Because two things are happening, ladies and gentlemen. Or the Minister of the Interior did not know, so he is a victim of Maximus' mechanics or the Minister of the Interior is part of the coup d'état. I wonder how you're still sitting in your chair. Because I don't care if you guys make fun of yourself. Your right to be ridiculed. What I am interested in is the institution, the functioning of democracy, executive power, legislative power and local self-government, because this is also a institution of democracy. Well, these games are drowned in his hair. And I'm telling you one thing. Whenever you do the national elections, because everything shows that you are going to make them in May - 'big turbulence, good situation' - not to know what the world is voting for: is it voting for Europe that is engulfed and we have a big problem, not only with refugees, but also with racism and xenophobia? Does it vote for a Europe, or does it vote on national issues, or does it vote for the municipality and its region? The right one won't know what's on the left. I say it otherwise, and I quote: no one will know anything. They'll all run in all directions. That's what you want. You're trying to save yourself, but any time there's an election, you should know that black is going to be so long, that it'll take you years to swallow it. And because a lot of them sounded... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] That characterizes you. Besides, you're the ones. So you came to power. You were feeding and yeajaying and throwing yogurt. You have raised the snake's egg and with this electoral system of local self-government that you bring, you will excite it even more and I will prove how. We hear, ladies and gentlemen, a lot about decentralisation and self-government, but we see nothing. And we see nothing because there is a huge popy paste of 'Kalikarat' all - to change the electoral system in particular. And watch out, do, he says, just proportional to the municipalities and the regions. Yes, simple and inappropriate, without thresholds, and with many motives for slisves, bazaars and transactions. Well, I'm explaining. I'm doing a parentheses here, Mr. Minister, before I go to the electoral system. I heard Mrs Theleritis, who is aware of self-government, really, my colleague and we had the opportunity in committee to have a good dialogue. But with these yours here, with the amendments, what a dialogue to make here anymore? I have heard Mrs Thaleritis today, and I owe her an answer to her face. Mrs Theleritis, I have heard you and I believe that you at least want there to be transfers of competence. For the New Democracy, I do not know, it has never transferred any competence to the municipalities, nor has it ever voted on any of our own reforms in self-government. I believe you personally mean it. So why, Minister, the powers which today under the current constitution can and are many, have not been transferred by this bill? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Of course, you have had the opportunity to bring forward proposals to discuss a constitutional review for more competences both to the municipalities and to the regions. So why didn't you transfer them with this bill? Because this bill does not touch the substance, the role of self-government, the role of municipalities and regions. He doesn't touch the substance, because he doesn't want to touch the substance, 'cause he's keeping good. We created the second degree, gave prefecture power to prefecture and then to regional. From the "Kapodistria" we went to "Kalikaratis", to the powerful municipalities. If self-government from post-government and henceforth ceased to be the self-government that collects waste, which illuminates streets and playgrounds and protests, it is because there have been these reforms and I am glad that the SYRIZA rapporteur admitted it. But you do not take the next step and suggest anything here. We'll suggest. The Movement of Change in the Constitutional Review that will come after the elections, because they have to be done, will propose that there be regulation of self-government. We will propose that this institution of constituencies be stopped with exclusive, because we know, having made reforms, which hurts the system and how we can correct it. There's nothing like that in the bill you brought. The only thing you deal with is the electoral system. So let me deal with the system you're bringing. Tell me: What kind of simple analogue is that which, on the second Sunday, goes to an extremely major situation, where a mayor who is elected, say, with 20% or his combination, takes fifty plus one? What should this mayor do with a couped municipal council? You will tell me: 'Exchanges are not now done, Mrs Christophilopoulou?'. I'm going to tell you that, yes, they happen, but you're not just doing this bill here, you're promoting them, but you're also on a premium. How? With Article 73, for example, where a municipal councillor, ladies and gentlemen, can at the same time go up to the precinct of the municipal council and say 'I am independent of this party' and at the same time just go and say 'I am going to the other party'. The ultimate chaos. How do you still facilitate this nice chaos of transaction, conciliation and division of an institution of historical, democratic and important importance? With your ability - and you give it through this bill - to vote for the code - code and work - and there are counter-proposals here, counter-proposals from there, no threshold, no division. Any small interest - and not only localist and not just innocent interests - will enter and be reconciled, because the provisions you bring make this easier. What are they blocking? They prevent both new and single planning, operational planning of the municipalities of the country and regions. I will speak in particular about the municipalities now, because the municipalities will have local councils and community presidents, with little resources, because you do not give them anything. You're making fun of them, too. If you say to them "you will become presidents of communities, i.e. you will be directly elected and not indirectly", okay, but you do not give them anything. You give them crumbs, just to say you're doing something, to close their eye. It's all designed. That's what you're very good at. But what do you take the opportunity for municipalities to do? Municipalities can't make a proper business plan. The municipalities cannot plan properly where they want to go, the projects, the perspective, the environment, the social services, because there will be a multitude, because there will be communities and local councils elected by combinations against the mayor. It's the complete dissolution. I'm trying to document it, ladies and gentlemen. We do not like to talk in the air, nor to exchange amendments overnight and play with the institutions. I am trying to convince you that what we are going to vote on is a piece of legislation that breaks down the foundations of local government. I now come to the role of the regions. The Change Movement is happy for the regions that we have established and which are the acquis of the Greek state, because we have voted for them again. We are pleased that at the moment the regions are a big acquis in this country and that Greece is not going like the poor relative anymore in Europe's regional fora. Today, then, the Greek regions will have to assume their development role with more growth powers with less bureaucracy. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I now come to another big chapter, which deals with how tightly you hug and drown this democratic institution. Are all mayors bad? Because there in the mountainous mountains where we sit together with other colleagues I listened to the debate 'double mayors' and so on. And I know there's this whole story. They were told by the Prime Minister. Like this. I am not saying that self-government, like the central authority, is vague and unblemished. But how do we ensure? Strangling them into the audits or leaving them to regulate and multiplier - if you want - through electrical transparency systems such as the 'DIAGY' etc., so that citizens can understand and the institutions can intervene? So the provisions you bring to the monitor of the ATTs - which we have introduced - are provisions which make it difficult. Why are they having trouble? Because the superintendent of the TATs will still be able to issue circulars. You have heard, ladies and gentlemen, circulars! Where, then, was it heard about the legality of local government being extradited? Do you understand? For, “he did not comply with the suggestions.” They once called this democratic for regimes other than that. Now you have envied the glory of these regimes! Circulars, therefore, toward self-government! That's where we're going. You will allow me, Mr President, to take up two, three minutes at least for the other amendments, because the first amendments, at night, I have commented on them, I think, sufficiently. Let's go see another reason for salamation that this SYRIZA - ANEL government brings. Mrs Gennamas had told you from this step forward - when you had brought the law on proportionalness and disagreed, because we want a more proportional system, as is true of self-government - that we want a more proportional system, but not a system of brass, chaos and insolvency, non-government. That is what we support for self-government too. I would like to remind you that I have called you, Mr Skourletis, and at the last minute in the committee to withdraw these provisions. Come and talk to the parties. I made a suggestion, too. We've processed her in the Change Movement. We have two, three more alternatives, which could be more proportionate. Because as I said, we do not say that ours, whatever we legislate, we do not change it. We must do this more proportionately than the system of self-government elections. But you didn't want to, because that's exactly your tactic. In the regions you do the same. You are bringing the fragmentation of the major regions individually, where too many forces here in Parliament have told you that we are very much in agreement. At least we've said it and made it clear. And, of course, you bring the committee for the vote of the Greeks internally, which says that in five months it will do its job. And how can I trust a ministry's committee, when in the same ministry and all his staff have been working out for months, a bill - which we are going to vote on now - your horror! - and last minute seventeen fellow MPs are changing his lights? They're changing his lights, because that's what it's all about! You've been changed, Mr. Skourlet. Admit it! So what are we going to say in the world to believe us now? Let us vote with good will that there will be a committee for the vote of the Greek voters. How are we sure you're gonna do it? We had a ready arrangement to recommend to you. There are earlier law proposals from other parties than the Civic Opposition. You don't have to take our own or the C.E.P.D.'s. But it is easy to legislate on this matter. Why don't you do it? What are you afraid of? Because it doesn't suit you. Because most of all, you legislate, you deal and you do how, micro-groups, it always suits you. I would therefore like to make it clear that we as a Democratic Integration and a Change Movement will vote on the partition, for which we agree, because it would be a pretext to say that we are voting against, even though we agree. On the other hand, however, we will see very sceptically and secondly. I reserve the vote on the Plenary Session. In conclusion, I would like to say that you may also be able to make the elections with this law, but a mortal law - do not fool yourself - a law without substance, a law destructive will be changed by the Greek people. The forces of self-government, the forces of democracy, the forces of progress will change this law that you bring and you will all vote on tomorrow. We, as Democratic Reconciliation, strongly vote against the law and most of its articles!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u86	Thank you. I invite the special speaker of the Golden Dawn to step in, Mr. George Germenis for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u87	First of all, I would like to tell you that the Greek citizens are not interested in today's bill at all. How the three hundred are elected here, or how the regional or mayors are elected. The Greek man is dived and lost in his daily life, and all he thinks of is how he will get a piece of bread into his home and how he and his family survive in this swan of heavy austerity, the reduction of wages and pensions that he experiences every day, with a huge stress on what can dawn him tomorrow. In today's bill, which is the last of the period before the beginning of the Summer Sections, we believe that more time should be given to its development, since you have the courage and you call it "CLISTEN I" in order to follow the "CLOSHEN II", "CLOSHEN III" and say. You are still not ready to bring a bill that will be restructured to local government, since it is a simple copy-paste after the dissolution of the local government that had brought PASOK and the New Democracy to the "KADIKRA" and "KARIKRATH". A follow-up is, then, ‘CLEARED I’. In other words, in our view, and in the committees too, the reaction from the institutions, which we called on the committee, was a great one. We've heard the mayors. Although you are evangelizing it is the great reform work that KLITHENIS will bring, you have a huge handshake. You have already brought a number of amendments to strengthen this bill. But let's see things in turn. The simple diversification of the municipalities by categorizing them does not solve the problems they have faced for years, nor are there any guidelines for how this differentiation will be used, how the unjusted so far municipalities will be strengthened, how the inequality and the isolation of many of them will be removed. The levels of government remain the same: state, regions, municipalities. The current majority system was obviously unfair, since a minority of 25% on the first Sunday was converted into a majority on the second Sunday with a bonus of 60% of the seats, causing social will to be irreparable with its institutional representation. But the way in which you apply the simple analogue is not simple, it is not transparent, it is not representative in the composition of the municipal and regional authorities. Mayors and mayors, respectively, should seek consent and cooperation to ensure the majority on any matter, and they should have the right to appoint vice-presidents and vice-presidents from opposition groups. In this way, customer relations are developed, dissolutionary transactions are carried out and the risk of a silent, at best, extortion is concealed. Besides, it is well known that you wish to impose your presence and be regulators of the political scene at local, national level, at all costs, without taking into account the consequences such a choice has for citizens and citizens. Do you realize what will happen within municipal or regional councils, what will the problem arise for the adoption of any project? The budget, the technical programme, cannot be passed on to programme planning, minority majority voting will be created and the institution of local government will be further weakened. You are nominated by new operating committees and audit bodies. But there are already several monitoring and evaluation committees, as well as auditing mechanisms, which unfortunately did not ensure the smooth functioning of the TAs, nor did they protect the public interest. Millions were made in some municipalities and regions from funds, which were not channelled to the right areas, and some organisations were turned into centres of corruption and the fragmentation of public money. And all this on the back of the Greek people. So instead of upgrading the role of primary local government, you drive it to the tartars. Enhance or, better, cultivate opacity conditions and the reform turns into deregulation. I am going to refer to Article 79 - which concerns us - the Immigration and Refugee Council, in which arrangements are made to strengthen the integration of refugees into local communities. In each municipality, by decision of the municipal council, the Immigration and Refugee Council is formed and operated, consisting of five to eleven members designated by the Migrant and Refugee Council. Membership is defined as municipal councillors, representatives of organisations of solidarity and NGOs active, and representatives selected by immigrants and refugees resident permanently in the municipality. The method of selection and allocation will be regulated by a later decision of the relevant ministers. Here we are seeing what we have said before that you are legislating completely on such serious issues. It'll be interesting to know the selection criteria. On what criteria will you choose the best NGO for you? What is currently closer to your interests? And when you talk about the representatives of immigrants and refugees, you mean those who are elected by their well-known democratic processes, those who are stealing, stabbing, setting fires, threatening, rape, those who are radicalised. How will these people be separated when they have their own internal procedures and disagreements? Aren't you concerned about this? Do you intend to include the lawyers represented by the well-known NGO? This is clearly the first move to grant civil rights to illegal immigrants and refugees. Then there remains the right to vote, which will, in fact, alter the election result. I continue with Articles 133-151, which provide for the establishment of the municipal and regional referendum. As I mentioned at the first meeting, the local referendums had already been foreseen since 2006, but the relevant presidential decree was pending. Why didn't you issue the presidential decree instead of legislating again? The answer is simple. You have widened - democratic at all times! - the exceptions for a local referendum. In other words, as we have said, a referendum cannot be held on matters relating to national security, foreign or immigration policy, the interpretation and application of international treaties, the freedom of religious conscience and worship or the institutional organisation of all known religions, the financial management of OTAs, the imposition of fees and the administrative division of the country. So, tell us why local referendums should take place? We have said that it cannot be done for hotspots, incinerators, mosques, to protect local products. Can the tolls, basic infrastructure, environmentally impact investments? It's a lot of questions, but I'm afraid you don't have any answers. Of course, with so many exceptions, you are not strengthening the fundamental pillar of direct democracy and the democratisation of the model of local government. Our position is just as clear. The Golden Dawn says, the Greeks decide on the major national and social issues and the people should be the real sovereign, not only in the polls every four years to respond to a virtual dilemma. Let us now see Article 248, which contains the provisions governing the operational and procedural regime, in which it is attempting to make the administration of citizenship and naturalisation more effective with a view to altering the ethnological composition of Greece. You want to give Greek citizenship to countless foreigners and the naturalisation of them in order to make your new voters, new civil servants and, ultimately, the new citizens of this country. I will repeat, what I have said to the committee: it is a different thing about citizenship and citizenship. You should tell your services and those who manage them, if they are not obsessive left-wings, as you are, that they are not meant to grant citizenship, as the heading of Article 248 says, because citizenship is neither awarded nor given. The nationality or has it with one's birth or not. What you insist on doing with your betrayal policies is not a assignment of citizenship to illegal immigrants but abstract naturalisations. In other words, you make them citizens of the country with Greek identities, but you do not make them Greek, because you cannot. The reason why you are compelled to reinstate the previous arrangements in the collection of naturalization services at the Ministry of the Interior is that you fully control all the decisions that you cannot do so in self-government. Local communities are better aware of the problems faced by each geographical region of the territory by illegal immigration and the burden of the accumulation of foreigners. And it's not easy for you to deal with when applications for naturalisation are rejected. In this way you gather all the services at the centre in order to fully control decisions, give political direction to the choices of administration and lead the decisions, which would otherwise be negative for you at regional level. The complete restructuring of naturalization services throughout the country and, in such a fascinated and rough way, it proves that you have been planning your political future since now, trying to distort the people's mandate through suburbs of naturalizations which, now, you are headed centrally from Maximos to the Ministry of the Interior and then to the call. The violent, illegal and unconstitutional alteration of the country's population data, which faces huge problems of ingenuity, for which you are doing absolutely nothing, finds you the willing performers of the orders of globalisation, the absolute expressor. The dismantling of the services that have been integrated into the institutions of local government, through the unacceptable article you are proposing, has, as we have said, a concrete target. That is why, obviously, we will vote against the provision. In conclusion, I should like to refer to an issue that is first news in all the media and now has been extended to foreign journalism centres. I am talking about today's publication of "Kathimerini", about the diplomatic crisis and the deportations of diplomats made by the SYRIZA Government with Prime Minister Tsipras. The Golden Dawn, with the MP of the Ioannis Lagos, has tabled a question today and asks to know exactly what happened on such a large national issue. From where and until where did Greece deport two diplomats and forbid two other Russian officers from entering Greek territory? What interests does the Greek state serve? I am sure these interests do not serve the Greek people but some third parties. We are already calling on the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, to come here to plenary and take a stand on such a serious issue, such as the expulsion of the two Russian diplomats and the ban on entering Greece in two others under the shadow of today's NATO meeting, where they will invite Skopje to take part and become a member under the name of Northern Macedonia for the first time. This alone raises many questions, for the time and place that this dangerous game took place in the backs of the Greek citizen, to get Greece into trouble around a huge swan. At a time when the Greeks are asking for help from any outside agent whether it's called Russia, whether it's called America or any other state, when we don't want to create enemies, but fellow believers in the difficult years of the memorandum, you create enthusiasm. We invite you to take a position here in the Greek Parliament and explain to us under what conditions these deportations have been made and to know clearly why. You cannot conclude agreements with Skopje, name statees that were only created yesterday, with names of thousands of years that were Greece, such as the one in northern Macedonia. Today there is even a post, which refers to trade with Albania and refers to border changes. I stress this, there is a report that speaks of an agreement between Greece and Albania and a border change. We call on the Greek Prime Minister today already to take a stand on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u88	Before giving the floor to the next rapporteur, who is Mr Synthetis of the Communist Party, we have an amendment from the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr Constantine Army. I would ask him to develop the amendment for a moment. You have the floor, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u89	Good evening in plenary. Archaeological works, i.e. works relating to cultural heritage in general, fall within the competence of the Ministry of Culture. This means that they are carried out by the Ministry of Culture by qualified staff, mainly the system of self-sufficientness, restoration, promotion and configuration of archaeological sites, etc. Many such projects are carried out through funding from the regions through programmes of cultural development. What does that mean? The projects are carried out by the Ministry's services, the funding comes from the regions. In this context, it has been found that there is a technical issue, which in many cases makes it difficult to transfer funds from the regions to the Ministry of Culture. We are therefore proposing an amendment which describes a clear and transparent procedure for the transfer of funds from the regions' budget to the budget of the Ministry of Culture to carry out archaeological works by the Ministry, in particular, by means of the self-sufficient system. It therefore falls within the framework of the government's wider policy on mobilisation of resources that are now ponding for the implementation of important projects in the field of culture, which can bring about sustainable development and sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. There are also two amendments to be developed by the State Secretary for Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Athanasios Eliopoulos. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. These are two amendments, 1683/72 and 1680/69. Amendment No 1683/72 refers to the cooperation of the ILO with the Labour Inspectorate on fines. There was already a provision where ILO inspectors can also confirm undeclared work and be transferred to the Labour Inspectorate to proceed with the process. It was a provision that emerged from the pilot project for the cooperation of the four control mechanisms. This provision simply makes some legislative improvements so that communication between the two services can be easier. There is. The second Amendment 1680/69 defines OAED as the Greek point, which participates in the European Agency for the Coordination of the EURES European Employment Services Network. It was a formal obligation to designate a public body as the reference point for this European network. This organisation, and on the basis of the operation, should be the OAED and the OAED is defined. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u92	Thank you, too. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syncurakis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the government has made an additional commitment to the third memorandum, giving the baton of "KOLIKRATH" to "KOLITHEN I", inaugurating a new round of reactionary restructuring in local administration. These changes do not concern the needs of people's households, but the needs of capital for a return to profits and a boost to competitiveness. And it could not be otherwise, since the local administration is an extension of the urban state. The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL does not reject the ‘CALL’. On the contrary, he plays and recognises him as a programme that laid the foundations for future institutional slots. The state, in other words, has a continuity and its anti-pity is also a given one. The explanatory statement states: "Every reform effort is developing in the territory of a given institutional reality, ensuring that the institutional continuity and consciousness of the present economic, political and social context are safeguarded". It is the state - a headquarters that will develop a policy and the local administration at all levels will be the trustee that will execute it. This is the axis on which government plans are moving to restructure the administrative structure of the country with the mandates of the European Union and of the big capital. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes that have been made in the past have not brought growth to the benefit of the people. They have not undone economic regional imbalances and much more the concentration of wealth in a few hands at the expense of the majority. All the reforms in the administrative structure have so far contributed to budgetary discipline, to the expansion of taxation, to the commercialisation of services and goods, to the overthrow of labour relations and rights. It is no coincidence that these reforms were supported by all civil servants and the institutions of the local administration, the CEDEFOP, the EPE, the composition of which were mainly from New Democracy and the PASOK, and to a very large extent they also contributed SYRIZA officials. The Communist Party of Greece was justified when it said that the vast majority of local problems are the result of the central political line, that it is impossible to have local prosperity, philosophical local islands, alleviating local and regional inequalities while the barbaric and anti-popular central policy exists. The local bodies and elected representatives of the urban parties that manage them have, over time, promoted entrepreneurship, interconnection with businesses, broadening the return to the name, misleadingly, of the economic self-interest of the municipalities. They supported the balanced budgets, accepted the economic observatory in the name of a household, acted on the shrinking of critical social services, the smashing of labour relations and rights, provoking them as rationalisation and reducing unnecessary expenditure due to a crisis. They transformed the municipalities into a tax-spiriting mechanism for theft of popular income, a fear of poor people's layers that are unable to pay fees, waste taxes, electric lighting, water, food at children's stations, etc. They shall literally implement the system of electronic auctions for debts of more than EUR 500. They confiscate their livelihood, home, and even equipment in their home. They are the busted populace households, which, while hanging to survive in the state house, the CRL, and the so-called poverty networks, the state and municipalities are pulling them out in the center of electronic auctioning. Inside this orchestra and subjection there are bright exceptions of a mayor's stand, strongly resisting the baton breaking of the government, who support the city's racing initiative of Patras against the bids for debts in the municipalities. The Communist Party of Greece, in response to this call, tabled the amendment with a general number of 1670 and a special number 61, which includes the request of tens of municipalities to delete debts to municipalities and legal entities governed by public law of the municipalities, as well as protection from electronic auctions. It concerns the most deprived, the disabled, the multitude, the third parties, the single parent families and the long-term unemployed. Here, then, is Rhodes here and the bang for all parties, see what attitude they are holding, at the same time that they are bailing each other out for who is more progressive and who is more democratic about local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, with "CLEARED I" a new stage in the cycle of capitalist development, the reform of the political system is being set up in the context of extended unemployment and generalised insecurity. Developments that are taking place under the influence of imperialist contradictions and competitions, difficulties and contradictions presented by capitalist growth in the European Union and in our country, as well as the separate pursuits between the SYRIZA Diploma and the New Democracy and the complementary role of the Change Movement. SYRIZA's lionisms and scourges with the New Democracy, the Government with the CEDEFOP and the EIA around the electoral system and some other secondary issues are another episode of disorientation, a controversy of shadow. He testifies that there is no other essential point in controversy. The introduction of simple proportional other changes such as those for vice mayors in the Economic Commission and the Quality of Life Committee, as well as for arrangements such as for the Consultation Committee, ombudsmen, referendums, communities of less than three hundred inhabitants with a single ballot feature, aiming, within a democratic framework, at manipulating and integrating popular discontent, for the people to become an accomplice and co-decisive to anti-popular measures. That is why the Government, by means of the provision for simple proportional treatment beyond its analogy as a basic advantage, introduces, as it says, a different logic of compositions and partnerships. Cultivated a culture of quest for scheduling, as it says. It highlights the principle of proximity and subsidiarity, democratic popular participation in decisions. No, this is deception, because it is precisely because it wants the people not only to receive their policy but to participate in the crime unfolding against them. For the simple analogue electoral system, the Communist Party of Greece declares its support only in the two articles concerning the election of municipal and regional advisors on the basis of the only equitable vote, while at the same time it is clear that local and regional institutions of the urban state, regardless of correlations, are mechanisms that literally implement central anti-population policy. In the discussion of the days at the consultation stage and the agreement in the committee set up by the Ministry of Interior for the revision of the "KALIKROAT", as the Government had called it in 2006, the main consensus of SYRIZA with New Democracy and PASOK in the process - Change Movement movement now - and the Government with the CEDEFOP and the ETUC in this draft law centred on the administrative and financial autonomy of the local administration, entrepreneurship and rewardability in its operation, which constitute the fifthness of the draft law. And state funding is evident that in all this history it will be balanced, which will simply assist the entrepreneurship and the tax-spiriting sensitivities of the municipalities. It is therefore confirmed by the developments themselves, regardless of the old times of Patolis and the Buyer for deregulation, insolence, transaction enhancement and various other things, that a wide range of local officials of the New Democracy and the Change Movement, the other parties that are embracing and defending reactive restructures in a state and local government, have been formed and are pushing for even faster and deeper overturns. This is reflected in most cases. One complements one another, showing the people the tree to lose the forest of anti-grass policies that are being promoted and implemented in the local administration. What are the main points of this consensus set out in the draft law? Firstly, strengthening the institutional framework for municipalities, regions, municipal enterprises, development public limited companies, all kinds of trans-national networks and their links to adapt and thereby facilitate the implementation of business projects in projects and services through PPPs and concessions contracts as well as the possibility of financing business projects from the new NRP, the European Investment Bank or other financial instruments. Chapters entitled ‘Strengthening the economic operation of the TAs. New areas of development action in local government and legal persons of ATTs mark this strategy, shaping local government in a more attractive place to attract capital and investment. Proof of the fact that the draft law introduces provisions on the liberalisation of energy, the promotion of RES, transport, agricultural production, business exploitation of natural resources and municipal land from tourism and other capital, the robbery of long-term granting to business groups of municipal real estate and infrastructure accompanied by provocative tax exemptions and facilities. In the same direction are the arrangements for the FODs. After three years it went - come between their public or private form and with three draft laws, the government balances in what societies will decide from below. Legal persons governed by public law and public limited companies and not one but three in each region. We finally know who will win, and who pays the marble expensively in one and the other. The people are constantly shattered, workers are rubbing their hands with small and large business interests. Second point of consensus, the gradual transfer of new tax burdens to the backs of people's households and the legitimisation of old people through local administration, such as HICPIA, increased VAT on the islands, the strengthening of tax collection mechanisms. The new tax burdens are announced by a number of provisions such as those of the categorisation of municipalities, which set the population, if it is small, if it is a large municipality, according to where it falls, if it is coastal, plain, mountain, etc., in order to connect them with the distribution of centrally independent resources and the criteria introduced with the same income and tax erosion, entrepreneurship and others. This is the case when central self-resources remain reduced by 62% and settled by at least 2021. Third point. The generalisation and simulation of flexible labour relations, private or government contracts in critical municipal services with contracts, hours, wages and middle-age conditions, the abolition of heavy and unhealthy, terrorism at workplaces, with no rights, intensification and fatal accidents. Fourth point. The emergence of the social economy as a new form of entrepreneurship leading to the commercialisation of a range of social benefits, giving room for NGO, NGO, networks and cooperatives. The government puts it as an alternative to capitalism in that moral capitalism, deliberately separating entrepreneurship into good and bad, beneficial and unprofitable, in order to devour the barbaric capitalist system. Let us not forget that the European Union is promoting it and funding it with more than EUR 100 million from the European Social Fund 2014-2020. This is a transnational imperialist body that is extinguishing labour rights to shield the competitiveness of capital. That is all it takes to make everyone sloppy about where the government plans are really aimed. The social economy is used as a tool, trying to manage unemployment, poverty and impoverishment, covering up and leaving the unpredictable cause of capitalism itself. I cultivate the illusion that the worker can become a collective employer, that the unemployed become himself's boss, and that he no longer depends on the capitalist's appetites and any fluctuations in the capitalist economy. The real social economy, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, requires socialization of all the concentrated means of production, a central scientific design to exploit them from the working class and, of course, requires the overthrow of capitalist power. Fifth point. The legality of a series of control, supervisory and mediation bodies, such as the Supervisor, the independent OTA Supervisory Office, the Board of Supervisors, the Coordination and Control Committee for OTAs, and the dogs tied up, they say. The aim is the unrelenting and uncomfortable implementation of anti-population policy, by destroying the Government's arguments on democratic and social control, democracy and the functioning of self-government institutions and various others. Sixth point. The doctrine of ‘legality and non-feasibility’ is without reflection and is evidenced by a series of arrangements of the draft law aimed at, as they say, the control of compliance of the ATTs and the continuous improvement of the effectiveness of state supervision, always thinking that local administration is a part, the extension of the urban state and serves the same policy. What may constitute, in addition to the necessary compliance of the municipalities with the budgetary commitments, the provisions on the financial monitoring centre and the TAs resolution account? That is why the Government maintains the provision of the 'CALCARRIAT' which provides for the cessation of elected representatives and bodies for serious reasons in the public interest by a decision of the Minister. If this is not a threat to those who do not comply with the government's and the Memorandum's requirements and defend popular interests, needs and rights, then what is it? Question. For all the above, which constitute the quintousity of the new reactionary restructurings, there is disagreement from the New Democracy, the Change Movement, Potami, the other parties here, etc.Huh? Is it worth wondering how it has been since last Friday when the debate in Parliament started, that the rest of the parties have not sprung anything from the point of view of all this? They just agree and have the heads inside. Just! What is challengingly absent from the plans of the government and other parties? The brave increase in state funding to meet increasing needs, the return of all the remaining resources, the recruitment with a permanent employment relationship and full wage and pension rights, in order to serve and strengthen social structures and services, child-care facilities, CSRs, CSRs - ASEs, CSRs, CSRs and other services that have become obsolete in the years of the crisis, extensive interventions for anti-Semitism, anti-military and anti-nuclear protection, water, water and irrigation networks, sewerage and many other problems faced by the poor people's family and its neighbourhoods. Why are they absent from their plans? Because they are merely implementing the budgetary anti-grassroots agreed with the institutional measures The medium-term, moreover, on the basis of the third memorandum that everyone voted on, as reflected in the relevant draft adopted, gives central self-resources by far reduced resources. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that no administrative structure like this or other which serves the capitalist economy and growth does not contribute to the working class and poor popular strata.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u94	If you're kind enough, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u95	I shall end shortly, Mr President, but give me the relative tolerance you have given to the other speakers. That is why we reject both the old and the new hardships of reactionary reforms as a Communist Party of Greece. The JRC does not fall under the trap of the vacant content slogans of popular participation, deepening democracy, social control and not assembled. He is well aware that the dirty work carried out by the government and SYRIZA presupposes a doctorate of bilingualism and possibilities of baptizing an anti-grassian construction in a proleaic. No administrative structure can deal with the causes of the capitalist economic crisis and the unpopular consequences, as the sovereignty and power of monopolies remain unpredictable. The JRC rejects both the old and each version of the revised ‘COLICARAT’, as presented by ‘CLISTEN I’. It highlights the need for full funding of municipalities and regions from the state budget and opposes decentralisation of key social sectors, such as health, education, welfare, in which, apart from realisation or devolution to local administration, it breaks down the uniform nature of their character and strengthens class differentiation. The JRC's perception of the management and management structures at central and local level has the foundation of social ownership in the concentrated means of production, the central design of production, with an incentive to satisfy popular needs. Finally, with this line, the JRC stands against these reactionary changes and the draft law. With this position concerning workers and local and regional government elected, the JRC shall seek to organise the struggle, claim, opposition to government and local authorities supporting reactionary overthrows. For all these reasons, the JRC votes against the draft law entitled ‘CLISTEN I’ and in principle and on Articles, except Articles 28 and 56, which refer to the simple analogue system, concerning the election of municipal and regional councils. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u96	Thank you. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Stathakis, has the floor to develop an amendment that has already been distributed to you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u97	The amendment refers to the microliman in the Piraeus area. The demolition of sanitary shops is suspended until the end of the year. So far the presidential decree that makes the quaymatomic plan for Koumoundourou coast has been adopted. The presidential decree on the regeneration of the entire region has therefore been published. Secondly, the renewal study by the Municipality of Piraeus has been completed pursuant to the Presidential Decree and the study is pending from the Region of Attica. By January the design contractor is expected to be installed. Of course, renovation projects are completely reshaping the area. It would have been complete and the relocation of the activities we are talking about. That is the amendment. It is reasonable to have this suspension for six months until the implementation of the Presidential Decree and the renewal study of the area is completed. The number of amendments - I am sorry I did not mention it - is 1687/76.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u99	I listened very carefully to the speeches of the special speakers who were verbal, I would say. I heard them talk about a collapse. Yes, some government MPs have taken an amendment. And? If you press hard on your feet, what bothers you when elections will be held, if they happen now, if they happen 15 days or twenty or if they are made at the same time? If you really believe in what polls say to you every day, what do you have to be afraid of? Why do you raise the tons? That is what the amendment is all about. I again believe that this bill is a great intersection, which will bring about huge changes. That is precisely why the attempted change is becoming a field of political reproache. And there is a great deal of political controversy, because something really new is going on. And I'm explaining. The CEDD runs a campaign every day, I hear it on radios, and I see it on television. The campaign says “They dismantle the municipalities, they dismantle the state, they dismantle our lives”. Easy, guys. I hear her from morning to night. And their argument is that we will have insolence, political instability, problems in local communities, problems in local communities, no effective management, self-government institutions will not work well, the phenomenon of unfair trade and many candidates will be presented. That is the argument of this terrible campaign that I hear from morning to night. Is that right? I would remind you - because I like to speak with information - what Mr Leandros Rakinzis said, which Mrs Papaspyrous succeeded. There's solid evidence. So he said the Public Administration Inspector that the municipalities in the way they were organised were the third in corruption. Can I say it again? Thirds in corruption. Unbelievable corruption! I still want here, before entering the essence of the bill, to remind you that, at government level, beastly mono-group governments have ruled the country over the last forty years and reached it here. Does this escape to someone? They were almighty governments. Shall we raise wounds again? I say no. These are stories that the Greek citizen still pays for a large proportion of Greeks. The poverty line may not have been at 40% when history started in 2010. It's about 20% more. Greek citizens lost 25% of their property. GDP rose from 120% to 180%. It was the definition of bankruptcy by almighty beast governments. Doesn't that say anything to anyone? Let me tell you something else. I will invoke Yannis Ragossi who writes a huge article. In fact, I would like to say that he is the man who made the 'CALL'. In many cases we have disagreements with the 'CALKARATIO'. But he did a lot of positive things too. Let's see what Yannis Raguss said, which is the fact that the party to which he belongs - he was also a candidate - did not invite him. They held a number of ten meetings on "CLOSHEN" and did not even invite him to ask his opinion. For me, the Minister of the Interior only had to ask him: “What do you say? What do you think?’ That's not even what they did. What does Yannis Raguss say? I'll tell you what. He says very clearly: ‘I have repeatedly placed myself in favour of mere analogy. Simple proportional to the emergence of legislative power applies to the world's most powerful and productive economies: German, Dutch, Israeli, Cypriot, Swiss." That's not what I'm saying. The old interior minister says so. He has many objections, but at least in this part he agrees. So, let's see what the CSCE says in this terrible campaign, like the state will collapse, etc., do they? I say this: these arguments are unfounded. And I heard some people speaking with intense tones. Is there equality in voting? At least in constitutional terms, we say it exists. How can it be enlisted? How can you get the other one 25% and in seats finally get 65%? How's that thing? Can someone explain it to me? What's that thing? All right, let me figure out how to get a little more. How can you get 25% and finally get 65% of the seats? What's that thing? Shouldn't he change? Isn't it beastly almighty? Is it not a county or a regional system that supports a person? Does the word 'democracy' say anything about those who raise the voice in here? Is it, or is it not, for programme commitments? I have to listen to someone else's opinion. Local communities need compositions and partnerships. They need local development in terms of transparency and long-term resistance. Many of what Leandros Rakitzis has denounced, would not have been done if he had a say and a minority. Yes or no? Initially, it's an incentive. There are new people. I've experienced this. I was a self-government on a great deal. At the same time, some individuals who were individual, positive dactyloscopics in local communities, who did work for strays, homeless wings, etc., were running and did not pass the election. They took 4% to 5%, and it was a life from the outside. Why? Is it bad for them to come in? Is it wrong to motivate this bill and disable self-government? Because that's what this is about. Don't be fooled now. A large part of people don't hurt local government. It's the step for their next step. That's what we've been living in the last few days. And we're living this very badly. They don't even have the pretexts. They don't care about the small municipalities etc. The next step is of interest to us. You all know what I mean. I don't like to name it. I want to make a few points. The mayor remains the prediction of nominating vice mayor. But the choice of the president of the municipal council - I've lived on it - from the mayor's resignation, we have to see it again. I think people who join together should be chosen. It is of great importance, that is, that they be voted on by the sovereign body, the municipal council, in order to be heard in society. As far as the implementation of the budget and the technical programme is concerned, I think that it should not be transferred to the mayor but remain in the collective bodies as currently in force. The decision-making power given to the Community Councils in respect of projects is positive. These must be dominated and the appropriations remain in the community in any case. I would also like to make this observation, Minister. In order for a combination to be accepted, it must have candidates in all constituencies, while so far it has been enough to have half of it. He's still giving a quota from 30 to 40. Both make it hard for some people to make a combination. I want you to see it again. It's good to see that again. I think that KALIKARATIS - I want to be fair - had many positive aspects, but to a large extent he suffered from centralism, which everyone is saying, at least those who have dealt with local government. Inside, there's a spatial matter coming in. Here I want to tell you this. The average size of a municipality, say, in the European Union is fifty square kilometres. In fact, the average in France is even smaller, it is fifteen square miles [15 sq km]. We must take care of that because there are huge municipalities. That's a little lost control. I would like to deal with two issues which, in fact, I am pleased that they have been through, although the political cost to some may be great. One is the question of incineration, which is being improved here in two articles in the bill and I am glad that it does. Anyone who reads very carefully will see that in two points, in Articles 249 and 251, there are improvements to facilitate these people, who you know that until recently they spent a fortune to go to neighboring states. And because I heard too much about Article 73, I sat down and carefully read paragraph 4. How much more time do I have, Mr. President? Because I don't want to misuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u100	About four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u101	Thank you. He says: ‘Member of the municipal council may, by written declaration to the Bureau, be independent of the municipality’. That's where I hear they're tearing their garments in here. Well, at government level, don't you know that the Constitution shields the MP? Another matter of moral order. We agree on moral order that if a MP is elected with a party, it is good when he changes to resign. However, the Constitution shields this. He has the right to make use of his seat as he wants at local level. What for? I heard it and I heard it again as if it was the deposition crime. For Christ's sake! And now I want to come to one of the amendments. First of all, I think no one disagrees that, in fact, some people who left because the country went bankrupt - there were three hundred thousand left and others then, I have to say, have the right to vote. Sure. Is the government supposed to do something? Not a conversation. This, however, is another issue and it is another matter that someone who respects us, loves him, lives more than twenty, twenty-five, thirty and forty years outside Greece. We respect him and we love him. But does it have to do with the country's present reality? Shouldn't we see that? Because I see that there is a passionate desire for everyone to vote in general. Oh, no. The ones who recently left, yes. He's in government duty, and I think he'll do it. I come to the other amendment that we hear from the police officers every day. I am passionate and I know firsthand that what has happened in 2 Athens has never been done in any country of the European Union, I believe in any country in the world. Athens II is such a huge constituency, where the offspring of children, that is, politicians who are ready for election, are favoured, as are those who have a lot of money to pay, organize gatherings, and move, as are those who are petty media children. This is where I come from - because I'm in the committee of CEDEFOP - in the mind - and that's the explanation - because they gave so much money up to 2015 to journalists, inside and everywhere. They were giving money. He hasn't answered. I honestly tell you that if, after 2015, even EUR 1 had been given, I would have protested first. Not even a half! Why would they give money to channels, to individual journalists, to bands? For a simple, simple reason. To ensure that these people, their own people, are elected. What, then, is more self-evident than partitioning this region? And, indeed, I, speaking - is in a positive direction - I said: 'What three? Over and above.’ What's the biggest county? The Aetolokarnania Prefecture? How many seats do you have? Eight? Right up to eight. What do I mean? It was marked by the deck in Athens II. It was marked from the beginning. Some were waterbirds, they were going to bring some votes, and the nomenclara arranged for those who are controlled to come in. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. Thank you. What provision is here for merit? A child who lives in Agia Varvara and runs from morning to night, both for the strays and for the homeless and for the local problems, why not give him the opportunity to participate in the next House? Who forbids this thing? I remember your President - because together we started - who proposed partitioning at the time and had made a positive impression to me and said 'Good for him'. It didn't help him. What changed today? Sounds like a 10-time touch. One way or another. We don't understand. And I hear terms of the formula 'you have to do that too to do that'. Evidently, the party's barons who have learned to be elected easily, without suffering, fear the young people through their party. Is that how we understand the merits? Is that how we understand the new quality of the Greek Parliament? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. The special speaker from the river Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor for 15 minutes. I would ask that we be consistent in time, because there are hundreds of thirty-five speakers registered and if we are not time-consuming, you understand that whether we go too many days...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u103	Today, Mr President, what time are we going?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u104	We'll see about it a little later. We'll see how the flow goes, and I'll let you know in time. Here, Mr. Blacks, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be in my time. The bill for local government we are debating today has the name of the founder of the Athenian Republic, Klisthei, who twenty-five centuries ago cut into the applied policy and laid the foundations for the democratic reform of Athens. The bill has two hundred and fifty five articles. So if I made a uniform distribution of the fifteen minutes of my speech in the two hundred and fifty five articles, using, that is, mere proportionally, I should devote about three and a half seconds to each article. As you can see, it would not be very good for me to do that for the substance of the debate. I will inevitably focus on the important things that are included in this bill. Before that, I would say that a very problematic legislative practice has been followed in general, since the draft law we have in our hands finds amendments, abolitions and replacement of articles of the existing law, No.3852/2010. The result is a very problematic legislative text, not equal to the importance of the changes the government says to want to achieve. I will begin with the issue that has dominated, namely, the electoral system to be applied to the self-government elections. As I have said to the committees, an electoral system must combine two criteria, governance and representativeness. representativeness is about making an equal contribution to the result, rulership with the possibility of governance after the elections. That is, the ruling regime must express as much faith as possible the will of the citizens and be able to command, rule as effectively as possible. The current system has so far given the winner, regardless of its percentage on the first Sunday, 3/5 of the seats. One, for example, who took 20% of the vote, also took 60% of the seats if he was first. Was it right and fair? No, we say, because just to meet the criterion of cybercy, it completely ignored the criterion of representativeness. The proposed system of mere analogy goes to the other end. And 45% to get someone, they can't have the majority of the municipal council to implement their policy. Correct and effective? Again, no, we say, because just to meet the criterion of representativeness, it ignores the criterion of governance. What can we do? We must go to an intermediate system which can combine these two criteria so that the solution that we take is satisfactory on both criteria and not simply look at one of them. Such a solution, which we are proposing, is the solution of the weighted analogy, an intermediate solution between these two mathematical extremes which we have in our hands, namely the current system and the proposed one. This is a balanced solution that achieves both representativeness and governance. Of course there are other interim versions and, as the Minister said, we have been proposed by various mayors. With the weighted analogue we propose an input threshold of 3% to ensure that the field is not fragmented with one-sided combinations and to encourage mergers of such combinations before the elections, so as to obtain a critical mass. We also propose a 20% bonus for the first Sunday, so that if you catch a significant percentage on the first Sunday - around 35% - it can also have a majority. That's how the second Sunday elections make sense. A reasonable bonus, that is, does not exclude partnerships and at the same time increases the possibility of forming a more robust majority. This avoids very likely dystocia in decisions. And let us not forget that the municipalities have executive powers rather than legislative powers, such as the House. So the cybercrisis criterion is even more critical, even more important. The weighted analogy, that is, does not exclude alliances. But they have much more solid features and they are not opportunityal. It is possible to reach agreement on two, three for one policy. To reach agreement five, ten and agree is impracticable, or when possible is ultimately the policy of the least common denominator. But let us see why the government insists on simply proportional. In order for there to be consensus and consensus, it supports the development of the relevant culture. Only the culture and the position of consensus remembers it when it loses power. When the government is in power, the culture of consensus becomes an unnecessary luxury for you. So let the consensus not remain on both the words and the words but pass on to the deeds, because the government in this bill, if it had a minimum culture of consensus, would make some of these proposals acceptable, especially as a move of good will towards parties and bodies that did not say a sterile 'take it back' and make concrete proposals with arguments. So to close it, the truth is that you want the simple analogue, because you know your weaknesses in local government and you want to be able to influence things in the minority. Otherwise, if you really cared about the alliances and the consensus in the decision-making process and all the fine things you say, you would do so today and tomorrow in the House in the debate on the bill. Consensus a card doesn't exist. You either have this culture and you have it for everything or you use it as a zipper. A second point of criticism in "CLISTEN I" is the hugging of local government by the state through the creation of various control mechanisms in the Ministry of Interior. To date, the powers to check the legality of the municipalities are transferred from decentralised administrations to OTA supervisors. It is constantly protesting by the authoritarians that control of legality is to be avoided on the basis of criteria of party, political and so on. That is why we need to establish a law-enforcement auditor, and that is what all the authorities are asking for. But with the draft law, unfortunately, the existing tactics continue, that is, the Minister for the Interior appoints the supervisors of local government and therefore continues and is intensified to embrace local government with the central state. An independent supervisory authority would be the best solution. There are other issues, such as the fact that in no European state a year before the self-government elections there would be no open time and manner of holding them. If the new administration takes office in January 2020, this means that the outgoing administration will submit the budget for the next administration to implement it. What is the point of the two Sundays in the self-government elections when the simple analogue is introduced? What more will the second Sunday give when everything is formed by the first one, that is, the relationships within the municipal council? Apart from these important points, there are other points which I shall mention briefly. Operational and annual programmes also exist today, but no one controls progress and divergences. It's almost decorative. They must be evaluated and taken into account in their assessment of the amount of the CFPs received by the municipalities. The technical programmes of the municipalities along with supplies of equipment must make use of resources at least 10% of the annual budget. Communes and organisations do not implement technical programmes and equipment supplies, so that often 80% of their budget goes to payrolls, infrastructures depreciated, pay charges are not used efficiently. Clearly, there is a need to strengthen the technical services of the municipalities with young engineers. We also heard the President of the TEI at the hearing of the bodies speaking with concrete proposals. Positive are the arrangements in the draft law to facilitate incineration processes. For the CFP, central own resources, the allocation criteria, which are currently exclusively populations, are enriched by eleven criteria for infrastructure, GDP, social cohesion, etc. This is positive and very interesting, but it is not accompanied by the weighting of criteria, because the weighting of criteria is also expressing the direction that the legislator wants to give. I am going to stand by Rule 73, because there was enough noise and many objections there were from colleagues. The contested provision is that, in the middle of the municipality period, a municipal councillor may be independent and acceded to another party. In fact, I wonder about the exterior colleagues. Maybe here in the House, isn't it? The three largest groups of the House have been elected to the MPs who were elected by another party. So why is this hypocrisy so that some would break their clothes? As regards the amendment to the fragmentation of the two regions, namely Athens II and the Attica Region, it was a permanent position of the Potami that the major regions should be broken to get the MP closer to the voters and not just through television, with what that means. As to the vote of the Greeks abroad, we would like to see more bolder steps, since there are already processes. So why does a law need to be created to set up a committee? Is that a constraint made by the government? Because I hear a lot of people say 'to give Greeks the right to vote abroad', we do not give the right. This is what those on the electoral list have. They can come to Greece to vote, as they used to be by coron, when Olympics accumulated debts and large parties accumulated votes. We do not give the right, we simply facilitate the right by being able to vote abroad where they live. But the term of office of this committee must be much shorter, if we want to be serious. A quarter we think it's more than enough. Moreover, there are the processes that have been carried out by several parties, so that in October we have the first findings, to prevent the next parliamentary elections, at the beginning of the year probably, as is apparent from the statements made by Mr Zaev and Mr Kammenos. They set the election time. I also think it goes without saying that we will be able to send our proposals as parties to the committee, even for persons among the experts. Let us also go to yesterday's amendment on the transfer of the time of the self-government elections. I really do not understand why this amendment came as a parliamentarian. Would your ego be affected, Minister, if you brought her in? Is that why he was assigned to the sixteen MPs? Why don't you tell me that yesterday at 21.25 hours where they saw the semi-final France - Belgium, Brussels, Belgium - Europe came to them together and said: we have an inspiration, not to make self-government far from the European elections, to do them together, let us table an amendment. We are in favour of the simultaneous holding of self-government and European elections, but not of ad hoc, and for once because this serves your political plans, but so that the European elections also have the equivalent presence of voters because they will also take place at the same time as the self-government. I shall close, Mr President, with one last thing. The consensus you use as an argument to support a mere analogue in this bill is a demanding sport, a demanding sport, a lot of training, a lot of practice. You too have a shortage of lessons, not to say that you are absent from this course and when you were in the opposition, particularly there, but now to the government, as the current bill in this House seems to have been. But when consensus works without actually believing it, otherwise you would apply it in practice, when you mean only the consent of others, while you remain intransigent, then the lack of confidence and the culture of suspicion poisons the whole political life. And until they are found again - and if they are found again - the communication codes in the political system will be broken down by society. So it is our duty to prevent this and not to encourage it, because otherwise party profits will be temporary, social and national damage will be permanent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. The last speaker has the floor, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, from the Centron Association, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, before I begin my introduction, to present to the Minutes yesterday' s WIR - ICM telegram, which was supposed to record in a journalistic way what was said at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Civil Service on the second reading of 'CLISTEN I' and the attitude of the political parties. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As you will notice, those of you who are going to bother to notice, there is absolutely no reference to the Central Association. Absolutely nothing! It's like there's no Centron Association, like it never existed. This telegram even reproduced itself from dozens of information websites. No one at all wondered why the Centroon Union was not talking about in this? Has not any of those who published it considered whether it is objective journalism to disappear the positions of a democratically elected party? And this may be the first telegram of the RES that I present in the Minutes of plenary, but I assure you that it is not the first one that it has published and forgot to mention the Centroon Union. From now on, every time we are forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, we will be tabling the relevant evidence in the Minutes of this House and will be informed by a letter of protest by the National Broadcasting Council, asking him to intervene. The periodicity in which these random and inadvertent omissions appear to appear in the journalistic coverage of the positions of the Centro Association gives us the suspicion that some have no other way to block our course but to try to eliminate us by magic. Ladies and gentlemen, in the three years' parliamentary presence of the Centro Association, we have often been in this awkward position. I have, however, decided today to raise this issue in the plenary session and to concern you with the mess of journalism in our country because it is absolutely relevant to our debate here today. We are talking today about strengthening democracy. We are talking about strengthening citizens' participation. We refer to the concepts of representativeness and directity, and we wonder what these concepts have to do with the other sense, the concept of governance. The Centro Association therefore comes to this debate in order to denounce it as a pretext. Our participation today in parliamentary dialogue is and is a complaint against hypocrisy in the name of democracy. In order for citizens to be able to stand responsibly against their democratic obligations, in other words, to decide what to vote, they must first be well informed; they must first be well informed. The democratic citizen must have access to information. If, therefore, our aim today was indeed to strengthen democracy, then the first thing we would look at, ladies and gentlemen, would be to discuss this very thing, how our democracy could guarantee the citizens' objective and independent information. Is there a way? There is, and we know him. It is called "incompatible", regardless of whether we were able to finalise it here in Greece. It is clear - and all the Greeks know it - that, as long as we continue to allow them to be media owners, people whose oligarchic interests depend on what we politicians say, they will not change the situation, they will not stop putting filters on what citizens eventually learn that we have said. Can we do something about this? Do you remember what happened when Costas tried it? Did you see what happened to this government today? Do we have results? So our democracy cannot at the moment when we are talking about guaranteeing the citizens' independent and objective information. That's the truth. Citizens must in themselves decode what they eventually get into the news releases and draw their conclusions. We experienced this strongly in the Centroon Association, when in the summer of 2016 we voted the simple analogue just two years ago. Then the news was that we were "flying", that we "wondered", that we "married" SYRIZA. No one considered it appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, to comment on the fact that the simple analogue was the first of the great 'nine points' of the Centro Association. Some have preferred to present our position in pedestrian terms, urging and threatening our MPs. That was the way we dealt with it. No one has recorded the consistency of our political positions. The Centro Association was courageously, boldly and frankly opposed to its own history and did what it believed was good and right for our country and democracy. Politicians are strong not only when they express a strong idea, but also when they implement it without interest in party costs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the simple proportionalness of municipalities and regions. It is a simple analogue - we have also said in the committees - with the second Sunday it is not just analogous, it is a Greek patent, a peculiar philosophy, it is a multi-phasical system: another for small villages, another for the election of municipal councillors, another for the election of mayors. The Minister himself told the committee yesterday that the second Sunday lauds the agreements under the carpet, the agreements that may come under the table, which may take place among the municipal councillors who have just been elected. It does not just question their ability, but also calls into question the honesty of people who have just been elected. In other words, the motive for which they have requested the vote of their fellow citizens is questioned. And then we have a mayor's election and we go to the second Sunday. And quite rightly he said the rapporteur, Potamios: 'If we have a combination of 45% on Sunday, what if and since, on the second Sunday, the second combination is elected, which can have a very small percentage, precisely because, in any case, the citizens decided that, without any consultation under the carpet, there is no consultation under the table? On what municipal council will it rely on to run?’ We blackmail the mayor, blackmail the municipal councillors, blackmail the citizens with the possibility of government. Ladies and gentlemen, we have voted for the simple analogue for the parliamentary elections. What mentality has been cultivated for two years in the House of Parliament, among us, as political parties? What mentality was cultivated? Is there any culture of mere analogy? Nothin'. So our country's recent political history has not had any examples of cooperation, understanding and consensus, nor even on our national issues in the last two or three years. We are today voting on the obligation for local government representatives to cooperate with each other under the threat of government. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the only party that supported the simple analogue two years ago did not even ask for its opinion, did not even proceed to contact him and say "Get us your positions, and see how we can implement today's bill." Ladies and gentlemen, it is important, before we talk about the gravity of the citizens' vote, to see what those who finally take this vote do, to see what the citizens are doing to them. The government claims that it seeks to strengthen democratic institutions, processes and citizens' expressions. Does anyone else not find in this Chamber this inconsistency over the attitude of ministers towards their obligations in the exercise of parliamentary control? Do you realize that what you're asking not only is not doing it, but are you asking others to do it at local and regional level? Not only are you doing so, you in this Chamber, but you also block those who are trying to do so. Citizens' participation means a dialogue of arguments, it means a question and I get an answer. So I ask Mr. Chakaloto, "How much money do you have in your famous rider?" And he tells me: 'I can't answer you, because it's difficult'. So I ask him again, after a while and he says, 'I answered you the first time'. If a Member of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, who protects him, has no way of defending himself against the mockery of a minister, how will the citizens do this? We ask Mr Papadimitriou, before you disembark him for moral reasons alone: 'Where do you support your assurance that four hundred thousand businesses will be saved from the law that you bring us?' And he answers: “You will see. You are impatient and impatient." I saw. I, the ungodly, who have no thirty degrees in economics, but only one, what I need to be on my job for twenty-three years on the construction sites, I, the impatient, have seen. A year later, ladies and gentlemen, the number of companies who entered the extrajudicial mechanism is double. So where am I supposed to find my point? If I can't find it, where I own a seat in the Greek Parliament, how will the citizen find it right? I ask Mr Petropoulos: 'What about the double contributions for long-term volunteers, those illegally withheld?' And he answers: “We will consider it. You are absolutely right.’ It has been reviewing it since September 2017. We don't have an answer on this yet. I ask Mr Stathakis: 'What do they carry to Halkidiki every day the fifty routes of the vans of Halkidiki 'Halkidiki' and where are they going?' Enemy in the coma. The list is really endless, especially if we add the questions to the other Members of the democratic arc who have the same fate as my own. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the citizens understand how we operate our democracy, what hopes can they hold that political dialogue will at some point be made with arguments when they watch parliamentarians "stick at the deaf door" to get answers? But let's see what Census does on the other hand for all of this. The only proposal that the parties that have been in power here and together are the elections, as if it were not early elections, is the proof of political instability. And you, with what you're supporting, are you asking for investment in the country? You are undermining what the country needs most. He wants suggestions. Solutions. You have not succeeded in tabling any political solutions at all, despite the fact that today's people are leaving and coming yesterday. What agreement, ladies and gentlemen, are we talking about? What positions? You have started the front - before you even become a government, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations. How many places have you changed for the scout? Have you ever responded to a simple 'yes' or 'no' as to whether you agree with the use of the term 'Macedonia'? On the other hand, you have also wondered, gentlemen of PASOK and of the New Democracy, what damage are you doing in our democracy, the same thing that you claim to be trying to protect from SYRIZA's ideas, when each time you declare from this Step that Greece is being destroyed every day the rule of law? Are you aware that this is the 'butter on the bread' of the Turk, why do the Turks also say that there is no rule of law in Greece? What can one believe about the similarities of your political speech with Turkish arguments? What has Mrs Bakoyannis achieved with her visit to the oath of Mr Erdogan? What did Mr Pschakis achieve with his statements on the Treaty of Lausanne? How are these linked to your view that the Erdogan visit to Athens was a failure? For the rest, ladies and gentlemen, on national issues. Beyond - look at the issues of the economy. Which one of the three hundred Memorandum Laws, which you have all voted together since August 2015, do you intend to abolish? What exactly are you going to change from what the memos and lenders have imposed on us? The bad opposition that is being exercised makes the government worse. You should understand that. Bad opposition, bad government. That's the truth. I would also like to say two words about the referendums that we are introducing into the political life of the country, of course having the experience of the 'no' that has been done 'yes'. You cannot understand that the credibility of the referendums, i.e. the confidence that citizens can show in this leading institutional democratic expression, is nil. In addition to the "yes" which took place in August 2015, there is another "no" that you did "yes", without having to vote on. I'm talking about the scout. The reason why you did not vote on the scop is that we are not finally being recorded a bronze 'no', which has nothing to do with the name of the neighbors, but with the fact that we are being stolen from a word that is not theirs. You may ask yourself: "But why do Greeks do so for just one word?" I'll tell you why we're doing this, at least we're from Macedonia. Because this word has the power to give birth to states, this word has the power to give birth to languages, nationalities and by stealing that word, they gain rights on us. That's why we Macedonians do it. We are voting against the bill at first, not because we retreat into the simple analogue, but because we choose to choose the path of real, true simple analogy. It is a bad bill, which will bring more problems than it is going to solve. Yes, it will bring in the authority, and here we are. There is no culture, no culture, no mentality. In politics, ladies and gentlemen, many people come in a bright future and leave with a dark past. Our past will be true, honesty and justice, just as I said from my first speech on 6 October 2015 just from this step. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that our Greek soldiers are counting with today's day a hundred and thirty-three days in the highest security prisons of Adrianoupolis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr Panagiotis Skourletis has the floor for eighteen minutes. Immediately after the rapporteurs, the Minister can speak if he wants to. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 'CLISTEN I' bill in plenary and I think that, apart from the very serious issues that concern the division of the Greeks' vote abroad, we will be judging it, if we do not get a little back to the content of the bill, since, as you know, it is a bill which, in one way or another, has been subject to thorough, multi-formal debate with the world of government for over a year. This was a conscious choice, not to surprise, to talk to all the people of government, so that we can capture in the provisions of this bill what is mature, after almost eight years of implementation of the 'CALKARATIO', to change or amend. We have chosen from the outset to be absolutely honest about the objectives of this bill. We have said that it is the first step of a new reform effort. And why did we say that? Not because we lacked the processes, where we could have more bold provisions, but above all we spoke within the limits set by the country's budgetary situation, but also in the current constitutional framework. That is why we have said from the outset that crucial issues relating to the strengthening of self-government, by conferring more powers, a greater role, require that the debate on constitutional reform be opened. As we have also not neglected the fact that this debate is taking place after a period of financial bleeding, a reduction in self-government funds. You know that more than 60-65% of local government funds have been missing. That's not something that's happened these years. On the contrary. In the last two and a half years at least there has been a reversal of this downward trend to reduce the resources started with the Memorandums since 2010. And here we would say that it was also a misfortune for the 'Kalikratis' that its implementation coincided with the beginning of the period of the memorandum. Therefore, some of the 'goods' - in or out of introductory terms - of the 'CALL' have left a blank letter. Because if there are no corresponding resources, we know that very few things you can do. So we have not underestimated the difficulties. We have spoken openly about these and put all these provisions in the torment of dialogue, a dialogue which has gone through a lot of fluctuations. You know what, though? I fear very much that at least the leaderships of self-government, i.e. the majority of the CSCE and HSEN, were entangled in a tactic where, except for some short periods, they were unable in a systematic way to table a de facto large amount of experience, as people who serve the self-government institutions, with concrete proposals. However, the majority of the members of the Committee of the Regions have passed them. That is why if you look at the last stage of the consultation, but much more so if you look at public debates, public debates at regional level, at public writing, you see a number of proposals which have been heard and influenced the final text of the bill. Do you know what was wrong with the majorities of the CEDEFOP and the EIA? They were caught in an anti-government position, adopting the New Democracy leadership account, believing that the present government would be a parentheses. So I remember from the first months that I was found, but my predecessor had the corresponding experience, they came in a denounced, disgraceful manner, with general remarks, which could have been made before 2010. This processed information, however, was lacking, this processed proposal which could be useful. I think, however, that, as I described it to you, we have found the means of communication, and we have been able to integrate a number of comments from the self-government. At the same time, and before I stood up to some flagrant provisions, in my opinion, I would like to remind you that this government has, in practical terms, supported self-government itself, beginning first with the provisions we had last year about the JHA, the Municipal Operations for Water and Sewage, a tool that was useful to bear in the years of the crisis, a tool that was effective. Today JHA is viable municipal enterprises that have a future for growth ahead of them. They incorporate a valuable experience on the issues of drainage and water supply. We have therefore recognised the real nature of these businesses, defining that they are not profitable, and that is of particular importance, and perhaps this opposes the perception that they want to deliver to other private enterprises. But today, to the vain of these views, we have 30 municipal water and sewerage operations that have only a future ahead of them. And that was not only at institutional level, it was done with the practical support, through the last competition, the 3K SAAP, where seven hundred eighty-scientific young workers are currently employed in these enterprises. As we speak of the competition, such days were about a year ago when we were disputed, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and you considered the decision of the Court of Auditors to be a great opportunity at the time, which in a violent way said the work relationship of the contractors had to be stopped, even though it expired at the end of 2017, last year. Remember that we had chosen a re-expansion on the basis of the need not to have a gap in cleanliness, but to start, for the first time after years, nine thousand permanent recruitments in cleanliness, thus putting an end to all those who, I repeat, want and are insisting on it even now - because I hear it every time, particularly on the side of the New Democracy, fortunately I do not hear it from the authors, even those who indirectly refer to the area of New Democracy - putting an end to that view that they want to deliver cleanness to private interests. At this point I would also like to remind you of the competition for the hundreds of eighteen seats mainly of scientists for the small island municipalities, the exceptional grant to island and mountain municipalities, which took place in 2017 and 2018, the possibility that we give this bill to the small island municipalities, under three and a half thousand inhabitants, to acquire an additional vice mayor. And don't hurry to say: "Another position in public", in self-government, anyway. It is necessary for the operation of a small municipality, which is assumed that in most cases is subordinated, to have this indirect assistance by an additional vice mayor. Let me remind you of the 426 million-dollar programme concerning the time-lapsticks, which we have received and has led too many municipalities to be on the verge of bankruptcy today. Only three municipalities are in the Observatory. There was a titanic project to exalt the finances of the government. I would also remind you that the "AXIA" programme, which came respectively to heal holes and cover final decisions at the expense of the municipalities, which involved financial conflicts with suppliers or contractors. Measures to support workers in cleaning in connection with the requirement of individual protection instruments and to contractors, the reintroduction and signing of collective agreements after almost ten years. It all happened before the bill was deposited. So, we're talking about a rich, I'd say, government service with a positive mark in the service of self-government. Finally, I will refer to something that has just been at its beginning in the financing programmes for infrastructure, small infrastructure, mainly the first degree of self-government, infrastructure which has been abandoned in recent years, infrastructure which has been closed forty and fifty years, which is currently on the table - we can see every time there is a naturality, a bad weather - which is financed. Financing for children's playgrounds, school buildings, water infrastructure, urban waste water management, rehabilitation of CIDs. These are all invitations that have been activated. And I would like to inform you that with the figures so far, until 11 July, a total of three hundred and twenty-six requests for funding have been approved. They have not been submitted, approved and related to two hundred nine municipalities with total planned funding amounting to EUR 123,507.902. We are talking about projects - and I repeat - which are already under way to finance them. I would like to present in the minutes a detailed table on each municipality, every project around these invitations. [[At this point, the Minister, Mr Panayiotis (Panos) Skourletis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This information shall be updated daily. Please follow them, because, when we talk about self-government, we must not just talk about extremism, we must not speak in general and in vague terms about competences that you have never cleared as governments, but we must speak with projects. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we, after years, have seen a specific project to support local government in recent years. So let me even one mayor of the three hundred and twenty-five who says that we have exercised this policy as you have exercised it, namely on the basis of criteria which are mine, who is not mine. There were no such criteria for us. For us, a future criterion was the needs of the citizens, the needs of the local society. A mayor, please, one of them bring me the opposite, claim it and tell us that he submitted a request that was documented, founded on the basis of a particular study, and we refused it because he had no barbas in the Koroni. So this self-evident thing nowadays is revolutionary, because there were the PASOK and New Democracy governments that acted on party criteria, with green and blue criteria. Your people, these many mayors you say, who are a New Democracy, as you said, gentlemen, will have told you. So go talk with these others to talk in terms of self-government here, to finally see who works for self-government, because more self-government is nothing other than what you have and you are approaching the issues of democracy and the electoral system on the basis of the reproduction of a central political system of power, a central political system. Because you know very well that the election of a mayor or a regional mayor is inextricably linked to the election of the regional councillor, the local parliamentarian, and that is why you do not want to touch the issues of mere analogy, and that is why you are still calling it an idealism. Is democracy ideality? Democracy is not just an objective which at some point must be reached. Democracy is also a goal, because the decisions we take in a municipality which has, in fact, adopted the highest democratic procedures, has given local society the opportunity to express themselves, has acted accordingly on the basis of concrete consensus, compositions through open democratic consultation, and good decisions are the strong decisions. The strong administrations, therefore, are not these administrations that result from a distorting electoral system, which creates a veil of opaqueness, and that is why there have been thousands of phenomena of smashing public money. Powerful are these administrations, which correspond to genuine real social majorities. And here, obviously, we have a completely different approach on this issue. It is what you are underestimatingly saying 'idelepsy'. Be careful, however, because in its extreme expression, the view that says "you are ideologically related to the issues of democracy" is very related to another view that was heard by this Step a few minutes ago by the representative of the Golden Dawn who said "what we care about is chosen, if each one is elected, the world is interested in his problem". And against that you must have a political delimitation. Don't you feel that need to take the distance from those who underestimate the issue of democracy? You don't feel it. But, in any case, I imagine that Mr Javarras will speak shortly or shortly afterwards try to answer these issues. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this country has adopted a model, which is reflected in the concentration of the population of wealth activities through overconcentration in the Attica basin and a corresponding overconcentration, perhaps to a lesser extent, in the Thessaloniki town complex. How do we start changing that? How will it happen if we don't intervene in the level of self-government? We are also taking a bold step forward here, which, in the words of all of us, was adopted. We say, therefore, that the criterion for financial instruments, a criterion for the allocation of funds to self-government, cannot only be the population, because we are reproducing this gap between the region and the centre, and we are introducing for the first time a number of qualitative, social criteria, which we must take into account in order to pursue the corresponding policy. That is the logic of categorizing the municipalities. Obviously, this could not be captured in a specific algorithm within the contents of the law, but it's just the canvas on which we have to press. And in this debate, the final way in which the CAP is distributed, we will obviously do so in conjunction with the people of self-government. Suffice, then, to various generally levelling approaches to all these issues, and you do not have the courage to say that something that you have shaped for so many years, the PASOK and the New Democracy governments, and it is even today and perhaps even for many more years, because it is actually a gangarantic issue of the bureaucracy of the overlapping, you do not have the courage to say that we are taking a substantial step on this issue. What's that? The history of supervising legality is aimed at a shorter, more reliable, more transparent process of controlling the legitimacy of decision-making by self-government. That's not it. You'll tell me, you may not know these things. But there are self-government officials who know them, I mean them within your own classes. Therefore, there is also the purpose of setting up the legal supervisor. Moreover, the issue of intra-democratic decentralisation through the substantial strengthening of local communities is a very crucial thing. I really cannot understand how a Member of Parliament who has the experience of the region and knows and has seen this desertification, the abandonment of the small communities that were the result of the institutional formation imposed by KALIKRATS, does not recognise the positive step that we are currently taking. Obviously, we cannot go back to an institutional structure that is directly based on communities, but within the single cultural municipalities we must give content to the local councils. That is why, as you have seen at the hearing of bodies, the network of small island municipalities, the network of communities from the region welcomes these arrangements. Nevertheless, all this is subject to the logic "find, go, you want to bring chaos, you want to cherish the municipalities". How's the abort? With the simple analogue or with the present system? It's not the present system you're actually voting on anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, the institution of self-government needs a new democratic breath. And that is the ambiguousness of the provisions relating to the electoral system, a new electoral system which will give inspiration, the possibility of new powers, new people in the case of local government, on the basis of the submission of concrete proposals, programming positions, open consultation and cooperation. Do not reproduce distortion and do not use local government as a misuse of political controversy at central political level. First of all, the mayor is not a parliamentarian. The mayor is not a Member, he is not a Prime Minister, he is not even a member of the municipal council. Do you know that? You know that. The mayor's not voting. It's the mayor's executive body today. He's not voting. We are not talking about the leading mayors of the other regimes. We're talking about the mayor. It's an executive. So stop making parallels with Parliament, because that is how you show exactly what you are complaining about, that is to say, the work and the adaptation of self-government to the measures and weights of the central political system. This does not, however, have any self-government perception. This actually shows and reflects your own, timelessly consistent, view, fear of self-government. That is why you have never brought a reform after 1974 nor supported any, even with some creative proposals. You've always defended the old one. That's what you're doing now. And one last. Please very much, if you can answer it to me. We put it at all the previous meetings. Is there a hypotension? There's a hypotension. How are we going to get through subsecution? We will overcome it in two ways: If we slowly give young people, young scientists - mainly today we lack economists and engineers from the municipalities, especially in the regions - to start being appointed again. And the government has succeeded - and you know it very well - since we have been able to go to the rule of one's retirement and one's recruitment. So do we want to give the municipalities the opportunity to step on their feet? If yes, you can't be with one to five. You may not want to go back to a more unfavourable position than that, which we had this year, which was one to three, last year that was one to four and go back to last year. Why are you doing this? You do it either because you do not care - but say it - or especially, because you want to shrink the role of elected local government and say 'private forces, market, come on'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u110	We're talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u111	You say so. So say it and write it on your flags. But you know what? Here, in fact, 95% of self-government is across. If you bring me more than 5% of today's mayors - not those who enter the next elections in May, because there will change the relationships - which defended this market perception that succeeded your old state - because you have always been fabulous and fearful towards self-government, you, who have been against the elected region. You know that very well, the party appointed prefect was the one who held your own party state, was the one who was intervening on the rhetorics, the customer relations of your governments, with the local communities - you should tell us as well. And one last. Because you spoke before and have paralleled this bill as an attempt to alleviate and dismantle the institutions, you mentioned another example that we are going to dismantle the media. Mr. Voridis, do you know what? You have in your ranks a rather experienced, old journalist, Ms. Spyraki, who volunteered at "MEGA". Do you remember what Kostas Karamanlis said about the good times, when there was the MEGA and how the interventions by the shareholders, the pimps, which Kostas Karamanlis said in his own briefing, how the interlocutory relationships, how the father's air loans, are all that contributed to the bankruptcy of the country? Because in the party anyway, you are bankrupt and must at some point give the loans. But are you talking about respect for information? Are you guys talking about closing off public television one day, through an order we heard at lunch from the government representative at the time? And do you have the courage to talk to us about respect for democracy and information, which is indeed a pillar for the proper functioning of the democratic culture? That's all known. They are deep in the consciousness of the citizens and, unfortunately, they will accompany you for too long. The sure thing is that despite your wishes, despite your efforts, simple proportionalness in a few hours will be the law of the state. It will be implemented, applied to selfgovernment and we will indeed enter a new era for selfgovernment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the list of speakers, I can tell you that today we can go until 12 o'clock. We have thirty-five registered speakers and speakers on the list. If we do not make a restriction on time and self-limitation on places, we will not all be able to speak and will, as usual, be unfair to those who are at the end and we will be going too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u113	Take a five-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u114	Let's go on Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u115	If we leave things the way they're evolving, we'll go Saturday and Sunday and Monday. I suggest we go to five minutes. There'll be a minimum tolerance to complete the reasoning. And I think that, as in the European Parliament in three minutes or two, they are sometimes developing their whole thinking, and that is how it is. I guess we're in agreement. We're going to start with Mrs. Panayota Kozobol, which I would ask she to open up this cycle of consistency in time. Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u116	Yes, Mr President, but the announcement has just been made. Speech is given. Either way, there must be a tolerance, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u117	Make an effort and you'll make it easier for the whole House, Mrs. Kozobol. Thank you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I accidentally fell over - you may have seen it - in a video, circulating online, saying: 'They dismantle the municipalities, they dismantle the state, they break our lives. CEDEFOP’. If anyone thought that this slogan was mentioned in the first memorandum, which was the first disgraceful and burdensome loan agreement, which brought the International Monetary Fund to Europe and our country, which gave country's sovereign rights to creditors, it is wrong. If anyone again thought that it was the second memorandum, which was similar to the first one, and that the two together led to a reduction in the property of citizens and of the country in the first instance - something which, only during a war period, is happening - then again is wrong. Because in both cases, our lives, the state and the municipalities have literally been dismantled, but also for the previous years that have been plundering policies in the country, which have in turn brought memos, the CEDEFOP has not spoken. It speaks now, referring to the draft law being passed. He did not speak for the 2010-2015 period that local government had a loss of resources of 60%. It did not speak, when the small, mountainous and islandic municipalities did not see the euro or the chili, when the doors of the ministries were meticulously closed for the non-Omens, who waited for the ministries and left at the end of the day empty-handed, when the works were financed solely on the basis of the electoral clientele. Ladies and gentlemen, the only thing that destroys the draft law being passed is the factorism and ambitions of some, but they do not coincide with the ambitions of the municipalities and the country, the ambitions for personal careers. And that's what those who stumble around know. Because the draft law being passed is a great, bold step, which, however, has not come as lightning in hunger, but as a follow-up to the policies pursued over the last three years. What did the present government do for self-government? He opened the Ministries' doors, called the mayors, the district managers, advised them, suggested, provided technical support. And in the unbelievable financial narrowness, he saved money from the Public Investment Program, from co-financed projects, and paid it fairly. It increased state funding, introduced the "PHILOPOS I" and II programmes and established more objective criteria for the allocation of the CFPs. He gave emergency aid to small islands and mountain towns. Through the targeted programmes of the ESRB, it has enabled municipalities to restore and promote municipal buildings, exploit commercial activities, save energy and exploit renewable energy sources in sports facilities. Updated the outdated institutional framework of JHA. I am not saying any more, because time, as we have said, is limited. Then all these policies come the draft law as a follow-up and not as a start. If I were told to describe the draft law with three words, I would say: justice, democracy, transparency. Justice, because new criteria are laid down for the categorisation of municipalities so that the administrative, budgetary treatment of primary OTAs is fair on the basis of their particular characteristics and needs. Democracy, because the simple analogue replaces the current electoral system of the self-government elections, where the mayor of the second Sunday, who received 25% or 30%, received 60% of the seats and is now replaced by the simple analogue. The citizen, in the first case despised by the robbery voting system, did not recognize his vote anywhere. So discouraged and distanced from commons watched from the background what was done for him without him. Thirdly, transparency, because there is plenty of light on the structures and procedures of local government, not only through the introduction of democratic procedures in the election of elected representatives, but also because an increased supervisory and control mechanism - the Minister said so before - is also introduced. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a moment more to finish my thoughts. I cut my speech, but let me at least finish my thoughts. I would like to say that in these three pillars, which I would say are going through the bill, democracy, transparency and justice, they are all the other provisions for the single vote, for the least number of candidates, for the councils of migrants formed in the municipalities, for debt write-offs, for the provisions on the FITIS. I limit my speech and stop here, with just one proposal for the amendment, which I too sign for the timing of the elections. It's nothing more than a transition to everything provided for by the law. Otherwise, we would have a term of office of members of their previous election, 2014, which would approach six years. So I think it is a smooth transition to the new legislative framework, which is being voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u119	Thank you, Mrs Kozobol, and the consistency in time. We invite Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos, Member of the European Parliament Larisa of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, fairness is not the same of all politicians and, in particular, of the SYRIZA Governments. I regret that, following the collapse of the Minister of Interior's key account of decoupling the self-government elections from the European elections, the Minister chose to stay in the chair from dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion coincides with the demolition of the Bucharest veto, which is taking place today at the NATO summit in Brussels. What Karamanlis government achieved in 2008 comes the "first time left" to destroy it, canceling our most important negotiating weapon. And with a crooked agreement, which has caused a symposium, I would say, the Greek society gave Skopje the initiative of movements, the comfort of being recommended as Macedonians, of speaking about Macedonian language, of Macedonian army, of Macedonian history. Another black page in the life and state of a government, leaving behind economic, social and geopolitical ruins. Ladies and gentlemen, KLITHENIS does not, unfortunately, come to provide self-government. Instead, she's coming to degrade her. It's another mine, sown on the ground for the post-SYRIZA era. With the flag of the simple analogue, fetish dimensions for the Left, the majority is held hostage to the moods, even negligible minorities, which are forbidden to absolute regulators of the functioning of the institutions. As the leaders of the municipalities and regions have rightly asked you, the reasonable question arises: what will happen if representatives of certain interests are elected and they start acting as a lobby to promote them, using extortion methods. Such a development leads us to the reverse of deepening democracy. Moreover, the possibility, vice-presidents or district managers, to appoint advisors from anti-population groups, in addition to altering the will of the majority of citizens, gives rise to suspicious transactions that will reap corruption, but also to further depreciate the already afflicted image of politics, something that will certainly also happen with the transfer of consultants, which the new law allows, which will be fatal in situations of behind the scenes. All the above, it is clear that they do not contribute to modernising the functioning of local government. Why do you deprive people of the opportunity to know when they vote for their country's Vice-President? Why do you give absolute authority to the district manager, even the latter, in order of choice from the citizens of counsellor as a spatial district minister? You care about chaos that the simple analogue will bring about, which you appear as a elixir for the pathogens of self-government. But there is a risk that self-government will lead to lasting paralysis, as there is no possibility of a new municipal or regional elections being announced, as is the case with the failure to form a government. However, all these very reasonable arguments for the common sense are of no value to Maximos' lighters, who are working out civil saving scenarios of the shipwreck, called SYRIZA. This is evident with your refusal to give the Greeks the opportunity to vote abroad. Hundreds of thousands of our compatriots, who left for work, see a door from so populous government. On the pretext of setting up a committee, which will deal with the issue, we are essentially referring to the Greek bells and thus blocking them from a process which is self-evident in the most developed countries in the world. The proposal from the New Democracy is clear, simple and directly effective. Even Turkey gave this right to the recent elections. What are you afraid of? Evidently, something has been measured by SYRIZA's voters, which makes them laxate the vote of our compatriots. Perhaps, because this government is doing nothing to bring our young people back, who would be sick to find work here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in the next minute. But to do so, it needs a plan, a job and an investment, and these are unknown words for the SYRIZA government, which is all she cares about is a few more months in power and let the old beer go. Ladies and gentlemen, as everything shows, four polls will be set up in May for MPs, MEPs, mayors and regional leaders. Your last hope, the evacuation of citizens to the other polls and your political survival in percentages, which will blackmail the presidential election in January 2020. But you do reason without the hotel owner. The answer from the Greek people will be hard. For all these reasons, the New Democracy is voting against this bill and is committed to abolishing it as soon as it becomes a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u121	Thank you to Mr Charakopoulos and to the consistency of time. Mr Mikhail Jéflés, Member of the Serres of the Democratic Association, has the floor. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's announcements are still fresh in our memory, the great ones, that "we will be every word of the Constitution". Unfortunately, from these announcements, the SYRIZA - ANEL coup d'état has gone on the other side, to the ultimate benefit of our institution of democracy, to their tooling and manipulating them, only with one aim: micro-party benefits. This is what we see in this bill. Why? Because the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, knowing very well that it cannot have an intervention in local government, is trying to break it down in every way and in every way. And that he has no intervention in local government, I will remind you of another name of the Prime Minister for the elected mayors, calling them vegetarian mayors. Therefore, it indicates that the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, and in particular SYRIZA, has zero social intervention in the field of self-government and poverty. This is a bill of micropolitical feasibility and hostility to self-government and legal inability. Because with this draft law, it is attempting to bring the institution of local government to a complete deregulation and to do exactly the opposite to what Clisthenes, this great reformist of the Athenian Republic, was doing. That's why you're wrong with Cleisthenes when you use his name in this bill. Rather, Nero had to be used to name this bill. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, is not a reform, but a deregulation, despite the fact that you always like it and continue to live a fairy tale of your own, because you think the world now believes you. To say, however, what reform has taken place in local government I and II has been carried out by PASOK governments and all these legislations, which have been embraced both by the self-government and by the people: "KARIKRATS", 2 degrees of self-government. Because the big difference with us is that we had knowledge and experience and we listened to the needs of local people and acted on them. We did not mean how we would obtain micro-party benefits. But let us take things in a reasonable order. The simple and treacherous analogue system, which is simply imported, promotes minorities and makes the mayor hostage and non-functional. You are in every way undermining local democracy, with the favor of minorities, with the possibility of travel and mobility. So we will see at local level that the democracy of the minority is strengthened. In terms of how, of the mayor's election, with the proposed electoral system, the mayors will be elected by a strengthened minority on the other hand, but will have a decorative role rather than a substantial role. You said it yourself. He's not voting. He's executive. Let me tell you, Minister, what will he do? At best, he will be a negotiator among minorities if he can make a decision from his municipal council. Many of your consent, synergy of cooperation, cannot be enforced by any law, such as the one in question, but it is part of a political culture and the education and education of a people. The mayor will thus be the prerogative of minority groups, which will prevent him from implementing the programme for which the public have been elected by a qualified majority, which is extremely unconstitutional, as it is expressed in the elections. The municipal councils are unable to take critical and serious decisions, for example, to determine fees and revenues, to regulate the content of legislation. And all this is sacrificed to the altar of the local micropolitical conflicts and egos. Independence must be seen as a given, despite your theoretical assurances, since no clear electoral measure of 3% or 5% is provided for in the bill to enter municipal councils. Extreme elements, opportune alliances, with a view to decommissioning institutions and satisfying temporary personal interests, populist and anti-democratic views, will have more force than the democratic majorities, which constitute the pillar of the democratic states, which is not done in any country in the world. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with your tolerance. The deregulation and self-government will be unprecedented. They will also be responsibilities and they will not belong to the municipalities, but to the legislator. But you will have escaped to manage this abortion that you are creating. After all, that is what the amendment of the seventeen colleagues has to do at your command, so that the elections can take place in May 2019. Your goal is one: four-fold elections. Mother's gonna lose the mother and child the mother! Besides, that's what you want, that's what you're seeking. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the communities. Make transfer of resources to communities and we will agree with you in this particular article. You're not transferring resources and responsibilities. You are simply changing the electoral system and making a federation of communities in the municipality, which has been turning self-government for many years. We were expecting to see a bill that would really jump and give additional powers to self-government by decentralisation, transfer of resources, and even self-government, which would take the lead in social policy and the welfare state. This bill has absolutely nothing to do with what local government really needs, and that is why we are not voting on it. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Before you speak, Mr Cassidy, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, wants to speak of an amendment that he has and immediately thereafter you will take the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u124	Mr President, I thank the Minister and my colleagues. I shall refer to Amendment No 1688/77, which attempts to set up a series of regulations. The first regulation concerns the possibility for foreign flag ships, since they have certificates of equal ranking with the Greek or more stringent, to be able to sail to Greek seas and to carry out activities in the Greek seas. The second is to facilitate recreational craft. Until now, the law predicted that on board the pleasure boat it should be a number of people equal to the seats that the pleasure boat had on the inside. Now, we are expanding it and giving the possibility to a number of seats, located outside, if there is a ten. Article 3. We had introduced an end for ships sailing in the ports. Since this fee has not been paid, which was usually not paid, there is now the possibility of fines, such as the prohibition of departure. Article 4 now concerns, for the first time, the possibility of creating an institutional framework for shipyards, which will transform liquefied natural gas into natural gas and provide for pipelines in areas where this station will be located. Article 5 concerns maritime education. In particular, KESEN Thessaloniki, as is the case in KESEN Rendis, is being given the opportunity to create special schools necessary for shipping, i.e. in seafarers in certain specialities. Article 6 of the amendment concerns the organisation of services in the port, such as the organisation of dogs. These are six articles, with which arrangements are made very useful and useful to shipping and the specific Ministry. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u125	Thank you, Minister. The speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassidyris, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u126	I am referring to a bill called 'KLITHENIS' and, therefore, I must first mention the historic person Klisthenis, but also the Athenian Republic, which has been founded and which has evolved into a man's authority on Pericles. In particular, I owe a reference to the laws on racial cleanliness, which were in force in the Athenian Republic, laws which would make the Golden Dawn programme appear "progressive". So Pericles, a victim of the famine in 429 B.C.E., married Aspasia and had with her a child, Pericles the younger one. When he wanted this child to be naturalized Athenian, he failed to achieve it, because his wife Pericles was from Miletus. He wasn't an Athenian citizen. Although Greek, her child could not be naturalized by Athenian, for of course the law on citizenship was in force. It was a law, which was 100% racial, racist, according to your data. So it is at least a tragic irony to legislate today and say that your law is called "KLISTENIS", because whether you like it or not, the Athenian Republic had a spirit of racial, a spirit of racist, if you like, you people who are named. This was the spirit of the entire ancient world, a spirit contrary to your own statutes, which render Greek citizenship to all tribes of the earth, which have flooded Greece. That was the spirit of the Olympic Games. This was the doctrine of "paper of non-Greek, barbaric" and "these barbarians speak" against the doctrine of poaching settlement and the replacement of the population. That is why the Golden Dawn also highlights it in all tones, against the policy of the present and previous governments: Greek you are born, you are not! In terms of the 'KLITHENIS' bill, you do not, of course, enter it because you believe in democracy and simply proportionally. If you believed in the simple analogue, you would have voted before the September 2015 elections. But if you did this, you would have to go for a collapsing with the New Democracy and make the Golden Dawn a Prestige. And this is the great fear of the political system. Enter this bill today, because you have hit elections and want, through simple analogy, to control the municipalities, with dirty, underground, suspicious transactions, with elected mayors. Today, this government - Tsipras along with Kammenos - is making a clear move of national moderation. We have introduced Skopje into NATO under the name of 'North Macedonia'. We have transferred the name of Macedonia to the county of the comedian. So since we are talking about "KLITHENH" today, I will propose a measure that Klistheis had imposed on the Athenian Republic and was the harsh measure of the ostracism. If six thousand Athenian citizens wrote the name of a politician in a shell, then the politician was exiled from the court for ten years. This measure must be imposed today. And then, the folklore Tsipras, who cannot step on his foot in no part of Greece without all-armed MATs, then the popular Kammenos, then Tsipras and Kammenos, who loves them, would be banished for at least thirty years in Macronissos. This measure is lenient, because the current Criminal Code specifically foresees the crime of last betrayal, which is being committed, death in time of war and life imprisonment in a time of peace. The present government has also taken some other action today, deporting some Russian diplomats. The proposal of the Golden Dawn is to deport, not only those who are considered spies of Russia, but those who are considered spies of the United States, who are agents, that is, working for foreign power. But who are today the 'numbers 1' servants of the United States? It is, of course, the entire Ministerial Council. In other words, all the SYRIZA - ANEL Ministerial Council must be deported, all of you who once said the slogan 'Knowledge of the peoples of the Americans', but today you have become 'Yes men' by the US Government. Zaev said that Greece took the "erga omnes" for the name and Skopje took the "erga omnes" for citizenship, citizenship and now the Greeks are obliged to call - he says - the comedians "Macedonia". Well, I declare this with a word of knowledge from this Step: whoever dares to call "Macedonians" the nationals of this state, then, of course, commits national treason and, of course, will receive what he deserves to receive: he will have the political end, which history holds on to every traitor. Commissioner Johannes Khan has also said today that it will be - he says - a change in the borders of Greece - Albania. The only change of borders, which the People's Association accepts - Golden Dawn, as regards our borders with Albania, has to do with the annexation of the voluntary Greek territories of Northern Epirus. Of course, there will be a change of borders, if we are to take Himara, the enslaved northern continent, where the Greek minority of Northern Epirus lives and is oppressed. That's all for now. The People's Association - Golden Dawn will continue to act by all legal means, within and outside the House, against those who betray Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u127	Mrs Zoe Lebanese, SYRIZA Member, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who is afraid of democracy? Who's afraid of active citizens? Who's afraid of dialogue? Who's afraid of consensus? Who is afraid of control and accountability? Who thinks that an election majority can express the whole of the local society? Who thinks autocratic feudal administration is the best logic for the administration? Who is threatened by strengthening the role of local society and the participation of citizens in the matters of its city? Democracy means, first and foremost, dialogue, consensus, codecision. The candidate, who believes that he cannot reach the majority of the council through dialogue, is not fit to lead the local economy. What will necessarily leave local confrontation is the party dispute. Those who are really affected by the strengthening of democracy in the municipalities are the ones who undermined the local society, who - and they want - want to control the administration of the municipalities and regions, not for the sake of the local society, but for their personal and party interests. The self-government election cannot be judged by government choices, party choices cannot be judged. The degeneration of the democratic process in the choice of individuals and in the white cheques must end once and for all. We must move on to a new model where dialogue is to be pursued, arguments will be developed and where the mayor is obliged to convince and not impose his opinion by means of various means. There are forces that fear simple analogue at all levels. They are the forces trained in personal policy, arbitrary, non-controlling, immunity. In each city, there are many examples of people who could actually offer self-government with their ideas and proposals. Similarly, there are individuals in every combination of winners who have gathered very little acceptance in the local society and have not had anything special to propose, but they are responsible for and enjoy the representation of their fellow citizens. "KLITHENIS" will give local communities the opportunity - or will oblige local communities - to choose, in practice, those who really want and can offer, those who do not consider the municipalities to be a head of political rise, those who do not consider local self-government as a means of personal elevation, as opposed to those who claim personal promotion and personal benefits. The guilds developed in previous years will break and develop a new culture, which began to grow with "KALIKRATI". Apart from the simple analogue, which makes it difficult for those who claim "the infallibility of the Pope", there are other interventions to strengthen the participation of local society, such as the possibility of provoking and holding local referendums. The citizens are given the opportunity to claim more than the mayor is allowed today, to put forward other views, to gain more outlets for their city's course, without expecting the association to change in representation. These new possibilities will force the elected representatives to be more open to proposals, to discuss them and to enter into the suffering of criticism. The strengthening of counter-population in municipalities, as well as the possibilities of expression, provided to active citizens, will open up new roads and new prospects for the whole public life. They will prove in practice that, despite opposition and different approaches, there can be compositions. This is progress and culture. The bill also solves a number of other problems, which were identified in practice in the implementation of the "KALIKARATI", such as the delegation of powers, without the existence of appropriate infrastructure or qualified personnel, the strengthening of the role and importance of communities, the necessary modifications and the new definitions of island and mountain municipalities. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] It moves forward in important areas with regard to the separation of municipalities, the obligation to design on the basis of the specific characteristics of each municipality and the possibilities it has. The reorganisation of decentralised administrations, the clarification of competences, and in particular the organisation of control points for operations, form a new map. In fact, what is bothering certain heretics is not simply proportional, but control, to which they will be subject, as public money managers. The scope they have had today is considerably limited. And that's good for all cities and all municipalities. What is bothering those who are using intergovernmentalism is that a reality is being formed that will face immunity. Today, which, both in Europe and in our country, there is alarming reinforcement of the forces that are turning against democracy - a sample you have taken just now - against civil society, against human rights, against equality and equal participation, the answer can only be one: more democracy. Every citizen of this country is obliged to assume his or her responsibilities and democratic responsibilities. This bill strengthens the citizen, strengthens society, strengthens local government, strengthens political culture, strengthens the need for participation, strengthens the country and its people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u129	Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the government's sole objective, with today's legislative initiative, is to break down self-government. The reason? Whatever we don't control, we dismantle it. You are trying to impose your interests, to strengthen your lean representation. He divides and reigns. That was your political philosophy. The way? This time the simple analogy. The core of today's multi-project. You are also going to set up an improper committee which will deal with the question of the vote of Greeks abroad, on which the New Democracy has tabled its proposals to Parliament, which are specific and directly applicable. It is obvious, therefore, that you are trying and wishing to escape. You dare not proceed. Where there is a popular verdict, you are shaking the people's vote. Ladies and gentlemen, this multi-project, about four hundred pages, changes the electoral system in the self-government elections one - or less than one year before them. In all electoral systems, majority or proportionally, the most important thing is to ensure the stability and effectiveness of the decision-making process. However, even on this subject did it break up for you. The institution of consultation has become the great rock in your authoritarianism. You refused to hear the objections of almost all the representatives of local government. You are completely unaware of the huge problems of overlapping which affect the role of self-government, the problems of their main dependence on the central government. You consider that the most important was the change of electoral law. When and by whom did the electoral system of self-government become a problem? Now it's good for you, now you're changing it. You have nothing left but to give your small percentage power. You create powerless mayors and powerful minorities, for the sake of your small interests. How democratic is that? You have also proved that, at every opportunity, you prefer to steal something from the powers of self-government, sometimes its resources. What I am saying to you is also demonstrated by today's amendment by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which provides that a decision will transfer funds from the regional budget to the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Apart from the fact that you do not have any pretext to the policy of contradictions which exist, you are basically moving back to the limits of the Constitution, which expressly defines the financial and administrative autonomy of the OTAs. In any case, cultural activities and projects have been successfully implemented for years through programming contracts concluded between the Ministry of Culture and the regions. With the amendment, once again the institutional role of the self-government authorities is being circumvented, but resources are being made necessary for the exercise of the powers of the TAs. It is therefore obvious that the armouring and strengthening of the institution of self-government does not serve you. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'CLITHENIS' programme is another product of poor legislation, which you have devised to promote your micro-transactions in an environment of dismantling and, nonetheless, it does not promote the institution of decentralised administration in the interests of the citizens, it does not modernise the services, but it reinforces the bureaucratic structures, it does not provide a development dimension, but it hampers project implementation processes in the common interest, it does not democratise the self-government institutions, but it overthrows the power of the majority and undermines the decisive competence of the institutions. Mr Minister for the Interior, the governance of local societies must be above and beyond parties. It must be independent, away from separating lines. The legislator in a simple, clear and concise way must shield its responsibilities and work to widen them. That means deepening democracy. So stop working on the institutions and manipulate everything in this place, what you have done with today's cradle of the sixteen amendment. This is not a governmental picture. We are now talking about a constant game of expedition. You change dates, you change electoral systems, you sacrifice them all, to reduce the upcoming crash. But it's pointless. Whenever you do the election, you'll lose them miserably. And what national and European elections and municipal elections - regional ones. You have before you to manage not one or two, but three and four defeats, three, four strong political slaps, which the Greek people will soon give you. Three, four elections one, however, message: Greece leaves behind the worst, most detrimental government in postmopulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u131	Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am not surprised that you are trying to introduce the system of mere proportional representation into local government elections. My big question today is whether the eyes of Prime Minister and Minister of National Defence at the NATO Summit are being cross-checked, whether there really is a trace of national dignity in a government that welcomes Commissioner Pierre Moscovici in Greece, to hear him say good words about the fact that he commits the next generations of Greeks. At the same time, this government expects it to receive credit from those who some time ago called 'economic killers'. But another Commissioner today, Johannes Khan, the Commissioner for Regional Policy and Enlargement, made a statement that inspires concern among the Greek people. He talked about border restructuring after a possible agreement between Greece and Albania. The government must directly ask for explanations and provide explanations to the Greek citizens who are concerned and do not trust you in these matters, especially after the Ambassadors' agreement. And while all this is happening and the country is getting hits from everywhere, the government is planning micro-election and micro-political games. I understand the abundance of a lasting and continuous defeat every three months: defeat in the European elections, defeat in the national elections, defeat in the local elections. You're trying to do four in one. One defeat, one day to be more easily forgotten. However, the verdict of the Greek citizens will be so strong, even in the possibility of a quadrant, which will be difficult to forget, Minister. Of course, I told you and told you that I have no questions why you are bringing the simple analogue. As if this is the problem of self-government and not the lack of resources, the lack of planning, bureaucracy, the transfer of powers without the corresponding transfer of resources. These issues are raised by self-government. But you choose to haunt an important institution, an institution that has been tested in time. The average Greek who is following us today asks how a 35% government can sign memorandums with the scoop, legislate for electronic auctions, legislate for the confiscation of accounts by a million and a half citizens and a mayor with 42% cannot manage waste, cannot manage water supply and small local projects? Two yards and two stations? One would say that your permanent concern is to avoid defeat. But, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, Minister, those governments in recent years played with the electoral laws before the elections, suffered all painful defeats. That is what you have to suffer, even one day, even if the elections are all held at the same time. So I would say that sooner or later the Greek people will speak. It doesn't matter two or three months ago, two or three months later. After all, Minister, since the day you speak and bring this bill, as things show, your designs betray, day after day, do not pass again. I would, however, like to take advantage of the last few minutes of my position and talk about the right, if you like, to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad and especially those in recent years because of the economic crisis have left the country. The New Democracy connected it with its consent to the break in the giant district of 2nd Athens. He linked it in order to exert a legitimate pressure on a right that Greeks who live outside the borders have. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u133	But you're short, Mr. Buquoir. Not in a minute, less.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u134	Of course, Mr President. Today's rulers must understand that we are not a resident's area. We are a nation of Greeks. You have no right to restrict this possibility to a country that derogates demographicly. Minister, do you know that in 2017 the country's worst demographic indicators have been recorded for the last 40 years? So what right, through your indifference and your procrastination, prevent the Greeks who have fulfilled their obligations towards their homeland or those who want to fulfil these obligations to participate in the public affairs of the country? You have no right to exclude these Greeks, and I would invite you to speed up the procedures, even within the planned bill, so that we all decide that we are not a resident area, as you might wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u135	Good, Mr. Comrade. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u136	We are a country and a nation of Greeks. Let us understand this as well as your co-pilots. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u137	Mr Gülekas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged, before entering the subject of today's bill, to say that today is a clear day. And it is a clear day because at the moment we are talking, the Prime Minister of the country along with the two relevant ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence, basically what all the Greek governments have managed to keep it on a night with the agreement of the fishermen and now delivers the country's last defence. What was the defense of Greece in the face of the forgery of history, in the face of the corrosionist attitudes that our northern neighbours have made, today, Mr Alexis Tsipras, with the blessings of his relevant ministers, gives it practically and delivers this last defense to Skopje. Skopje took the major one, they were called "Macedonians" on your own permission, and you even recognized them and the language they speak to call it "Macedonian". That's the major, that's what they wanted, and that's the vehicle of alutroism. Today the project is completed with the last act of drama, opening the NATO door, effectively giving the green light to Skopje to go ahead. In fact, it seems to me that many times, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, when we are in the public debate with you, you are breaking your clothes, saying 'but we are not yet producing results, but because you are in a hurry, we will see'. Excuse me, but did you make a deal and want to convince us that this agreement does not work? Then why did you do it? Or are you national proud that you delivered to Skopje what they have been asking for for decades or, on the other hand, tell us that we have made an agreement, hoping that Skopje will not honour their commitments so that this agreement does not come into force. But both can't be. Let's go to this bill. ‘CLOSURE’: Reform and where? In the sensitive area of local government. In fact, you also chose this custodial name of a true reformer of the Hellenic Republic, Klisthei. Listen to the way in which the government is trying to reform. It brings it under the urgency procedure, it submits it last Friday and now - a bill that is almost three hundred pages and about two hundred fifty articles respectively - trying to pass it through brief procedures. Already all of us have five minutes to discuss the bill. You see the interest of Members of Parliament, of course, because two thirds of Members have been on the list to speak. But what do they say in five minutes? It is precisely the same procedure that has been followed in the committees, where we have tried briefly to raise everything we can. We're starting at the major. You bring this which eventually the way you enter it cancels and the history of local government does not honor you in your turn, too, you do not honor the institution of local government for which you are so cut. And you're doing what? You're actually undoing yourself. You bring the simple analogue and say that this is the inappropriate expression of the people's will. But where? Only for the promotion of municipal councils, while for the promotion of mayors you have another interpretation of things for the inappropriate expression of popular will. There you go to the second Sunday. So we recognize from the first Sunday that the municipal council is elected, but the mayor we want him with '50+1'. The second Sunday! How do you explain this, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? What different interpretation is there in the emergence of local rulers in relation to the members of the municipal council and in relation to the mayor? Why that difference? Think of the disharmony that will exist, if another party suddenly comes out on Sunday as the first party and on Sunday the mayor comes out, who voted for the first Sunday. What about the city council? I do not know how many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have experience from local government. But because I also went through the headquarters of the local government - I was in charge of the major opposition in the Municipality of Thessaloniki for a period of four years - I told you - and I told the committee - that on the agenda of the municipal council there were eighty, ninety, hundred topics each time and we held marathon meetings so that we could finish with the current system, with a majority in the hands of this municipal authority and the mayor. So think about what has to be done in municipal councils, which will arise after what is really a monstrous thing for me, because it does not lead to sustainable shapes and cannot lead to governance. And that only effectively cancels any intention of you. Like the way in which I told you that you were following the urgency procedure, it actually cancels some provisions that are really moving in the right direction and we would like to talk about them. How would we discuss them, however, within these suffocating pressures created by the process you have chosen to follow to bring this bill here? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is that the national elections, as they all show, will take place earlier than the municipal elections. In this sense, municipal elections will not take place with your system, with KLITHENE, because our priority as the next government of this place is to abolish this bill and really to restore things.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u139	Mr. Giuleka, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u140	Today, however, we have once again seen that government's preoccupation is repeated with this amendment accepting and transposing the time of municipal elections three months earlier. The rapporteur has said that, even the intentions of the Minister himself, who once told us that the elections cannot coincide with each other so that the spirit of the municipal elections is not distorted, and today he comes here with a banner in a way which accepts the amendment tabled. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, we are naturally voting against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u141	Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill in Parliament which, for about one to two years now, has been discussed by the government and advertised as the great innovation in the field of self-government. We, Minister, have had many objections since this debate began because we knew that eventually some feasibility will come to serve this bill. And indeed today, when we saw this little game with this famous amendment, we could play between September, May - back, we understood that this whole structure was a sloppy, sloppy approach to the area of self-government. It is what the Greek people say "the chashides of the head". And now self-government is about to enter a great adventure, to carry out the government's experiments. And despite the voice of self-government anxiety about the lack of governance the next day the government doesn't want to hear. Obviously, Minister, no one would disagree with control and with everything else. That is what no one disagrees with. But if you want to save and well some small, insignificant forces marginally integrating them into the management of the municipality between the two Sundays in the way I want, that certainly does not lead anywhere. Because the one who wins a municipality with 51% obviously makes partnerships. It doesn't get 51% on its own. And no one will say no to partnership. But other Minister, cooperation from choice and other than necessity. Because if necessary in the critical week, don't doubt that this deal will be a heated transaction. I will not say whether it will be the pleasure of the contractors, but it will be the small players of every local society who will find a way to infiltrate the administration of the municipality. With what you are doing, voting for a project, you understand that everyone rubs their hands. You understand the mayor will be in a hostage. You have to understand that. You need to fix it. You can't rule the city like this. Of course, if you let it go, a next government will obviously change it, because it cannot help the municipalities. And while you have been arguing all these days and telling us why we have to get out of the door, you are finally coming today with the amendment and telling us that it is good to get out of the window. It's the cuff I talked about. Of course I can say one more thing. Democracy is not missing from the municipalities, Minister. And you know it, and we know it. In Mandra there is no democracy missing, there is a lack of bureaucracy, the speeding up of projects, political initiatives, as in all of Greece, I think. So I come to the second point which concerns us, because time is short. There has been talk of the break-up of the regions. The Second Region of Attica, Minister, is a large region. How did the Attica Region get found in the big ones? How's it big? Is it large in terms of seats? There's larger with sixteen seats, the First Thessaloniki. Is it a big one just because of spatial planning? What stays in Attica is more remote than what goes away, that is, the Municipality of Phyllis next to the national road is far away and Sycamino and Alonas are close and stay in the same region? So you're going to break a region without criteria. Do you come in opportunity to put the cherry on the cake, not just the second of Athens? Which of the Attica region specifically recommended that the region break? Who tracked you problems and who?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u143	West Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u144	West Attica. West Attica asked you to?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u145	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u146	Minister, please don't interrupt. Carry on, Mr. Vlaio.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u147	Mr President, I would like a minute. You will tell us who, not the Western Attica. In other words, the Western Attica has recommended that, instead of having representation with fifteen MPs, with all the political forces, it wants to have four MPs. That's what the West Attica asked you to do. And they told you he had different problems. They didn't tell you well, Minister. I will tell you that the problems of Attica, which you do not know, are: Land uses, they are the general urban plans, they are forests, they are the management of liquid and solid waste, they are the protection of the coast, they are the anti-military works, they are the anti-nuclear protection, they are the modernisation of the BiHA. These problems exist in the eastern, northern and western Attica and are the same. So tell me what criteria you divide the area, why are you isolating the Western Attica? Why are you doing this? For further degradation? Because that's what this is about. A region with fifteen Members represented, as I have said throughout the spectrum, you have to limit them to four and tell us that it is for their own good! This is done in the name of democracy. It's for the good they didn't ask for you. It's for the best they don't know. It's for the good you promise. I would say, Minister, that you must not at least insist on the Attica region. For the second of Athens there are colleagues who know how to argue for or against. For the Attica region you make a very big mistake, you drive an area - if you like - into chaos. And I don't know which party or micro-political purposes you want to serve, they'll appear along the way and they'll be revealed, but I'd say right now, don't go any further. Once there are regions created in 2nd Athens: With eighteen seats in the South Sector, with fifteen seats in the North Sector, with sixteen seats in Thessaloniki, the Region of Attica will remain with fifteen seats to deal with its problems with its possible representation, with the fifteen MPs. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u148	Mr. Panagiotis Syriza has the floor. And then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Karathanasopoulos, will follow. Here, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Since I am elected to Attiki, where the dear friend, Mr Vlachos, is elected, we must say that a region starting from the Megaras is ten minutes before Thebes, going down to Marathon, going down to Sounio and ending in Varis - Buliagmeni is not a region that can be operational. A part of the periphery, which pays for all this maliciousness, is just the polypsy western Attica...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u150	Where is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u151	Please, Mr. Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u152	..where there were no fifteen Members of this House in the West Attica, there were fifteen Members of this whole region that I said. And now she'll have four of her own MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u153	Mr. Darkdog, please over the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u154	Yeah, that's on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u155	Yeah, yeah. Do not refer personally to Mr Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, what we have said over the years is that the first degree of local government and the second is close to the citizen, there is immediate intervention, control, cooperation, and we all reserve the first degree and the second as an important democratic acquis. Is that so? In the previous municipal elections in Athens, in the first Sunday the "Open City" took five seats and the combination "right in the City" took five seats. On the second Sunday, with two and a half thousand more votes, only for Athens, for the Municipality of Athens, the combination of "right in the City" took twenty-five seats even the "Open City" remained in five seats. Is that a democracy, ladies and gentlemen? This post, too, is it close to the citizen? Yes, it's close to the citizen, so close that the illegality is perceived by the naked eye. We'll talk below about the illegality. The previous system was supposed to ensure the uninterrupted functioning of the municipal authority, because the mayor had his hands undisturbed to do what he wants without preventing any opposition. Thus a dominating, oppressive system has been created that we all live in our neighborhoods. You will allow me to tell you that I, too, as far as ten years of primary regional theatre manager, felt it in my pocket and I saw how all this monarchy of dominanceism works, this absolute authority that prompted, facilitated illegality. Even saints who were some were lured and illegal. Even now, in the past few days, we have experienced a new condemnation of the former Mayor of Thessaloniki, Mr. Papageorgiopoulou, now again, two - three days ago for the former republic of Central Macedonia, Mr. Psomiadis. Formerly both important members of the New Democracy. This subsidy of absolute power has truly disastrous effects for both citizens and the institution. This subsidy of absolute power was granted instead of consensus, cooperation and understanding. This bill promotes the culture of democratic cooperation. There are provisions that enhance representativeness, democratic expression, citizens' participation, strengthen structures that control and overthrow total mono-tax logic. It contradicts this bill to the monolithicity and isotropic logic that all, let's say, municipalities are the same. They're not all. Does a small island municipality have the same problems as the Municipality of Athens, Peristeri or Aigaleo? Therefore, six categories of municipalities are identified, abolishing logic that existed at the expense of small municipalities. The simple analogue is being established. It is abolished by 60% of the seats on the second Sunday with one vote different from a deformative and collapsing system. The Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents are elected by the councils by promoting compositions, partnerships and consents. That's a democracy. There is - it is very important - a consultation committee for cities with over five thousand inhabitants. That's a democracy. You didn't tell us anything about the partition. We didn't understand. You were not clear. This is where the rapporteur of the New Democracy with a mastery boulder said nothing. When are you going to decide? Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, you say other things, Thursday, Friday, others, and you abdicated the government for its thoughts on the choice of an appropriate solution. We hope you'll find them between you and make up your mind. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Civic Opposition, apparently awkward ahead of the positive bill, resorted to the avadoxic theme of Macedonian on a cave detachment, on a subject that you created and abused. They also took a line, it seems that all of the New Democracy's good and good colleagues also make party forecasts. Do not worry, both in the next parliamentary and in the next local elections, and in the next European elections SYRIZA will be the first to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u157	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u158	Only those who have been dressed up, ladies and gentlemen - I shall end, Mr President, thank you - in the territory of absolute power to handle things in the party beam, disagree with this bill. You admit allergy to democratic processes - I am sorry to say it - which we did not expect to know now. You even played the vote at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, we listen to society, because we are part of it and what is just we do. And as I said before, the best things come for the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u159	Parliamentary Representative of the JRC Mr Karathanasopoulos
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, today, we have not escaped the steadfast controversy of both SYRIZA and the government and the New Democracy. It is a controversy which focused on going - come on the date of municipal and regional elections with the successive amendments or the electoral system for municipal and regional elections, and this whole convenient confrontation just to reproduce a false distinction between yesterday and today, in light and darkness and goes by saying, but above all to cover the agreement. It is quite obvious that both the New Democracy rapporteur and the PASOK rapporteur have focused the debate on this issue only. They said nothing about all the other articles of the bill and about what is envisaged through the reform based on the 'KLITHENIS' project. In this respect they want to cover up their agreement on the need to reform the urban state and the structures of the urban state and adapt the structures of the urban state, such as municipalities and regions, to the needs of capital in the current phase of the capitalist system and the economy. Where exactly is this agreement based? It is then based on one. After all, the draft's report itself speaks with the best words about the previous reform, the 'KALIKARATIS'. Therefore, KLITHENIS is the continuation of previous reforms in the municipalities and regions. It is based on the policy pursued and on the current government as regards municipalities and regions. What are the main points of this agreement, this continuity? First of all, reducing resources in the municipalities. The CFPs have fallen by 62% and the current government maintains them at this unacceptablely low level, and even in the medium-term plan by 2022 the CFPs allocated to local government will remain stable by 2022. Indeed, in the philosophy of the government - he said very clearly that we have limitations from the Constitution - it is to increase more and more the share of own resources in relation to state funding. What does "own resources" mean for municipalities? It means entrepreneurship of the municipalities. The bill is too clean, with a whole chapter on entrepreneurship. It means commercialisation of people's needs, further merchandise, it means recompense. The plan for publicity even provided for greening to go to the payroll, i.e. to pay for any benefits that the public families themselves, workers for the benefits they offer from the municipalities. It focuses precisely on the need for a constitutional review so that municipalities can also have tax capacity, i.e. they can impose, but also collect taxes. So that is the logic, the anti-grassroots, the reactionary logic that actually carries burdens from the state to the municipalities themselves and the need to tax the people. In this sense, moreover, the transfer of competences to education, health, welfare and a number of other activities is also in place. This transfer of powers breaks the uniform nature of a public service and even exacerbates class discrimination. So imagine, when responsibilities are transferred, what benefits will very small, mountainous, island municipalities have on these issues. Therefore, class discrimination will increase even further, the services provided by municipalities in education, health, welfare and, of course, the commercialisation of these sectors will become even more important. Second agreement which exists: In the need for municipalities to have business and operation. Neither the New Democracy nor the PASOK nor other parties disagree. In fact, the Minister puts forward here and in the report the false diploma between the State and private enterprises, as if the state were not the collective capitalist, which, in essence, was subject to the needs of capital and business groups. In fact, it highlights it as a new form of economic activity the social economy, in vain attempts - so many have tried it before you and decades ago - to moralize the capitalist system. You'll remember the infamous business, the popular base companies. Ask the Cretan MPs. These popular base companies, where did they end up? These companies ended up as a shipowner at the hands of multinationals. Or is business an unprecedented issue in the municipalities? They had before that activity. What happened to municipal business? Or they went bankrupt by leaving huge debts to the municipalities now to repay them - in red are the municipalities - or, if they were profitable, to the capital. Because there's always the iron heel of the capitalist system. The survival of any economic activity depends solely on its profitability, on the capitalist profitability that comes from the backs of workers by intensification, comes from the popular layers themselves who pay extremely expensively any services and any goods they buy. From this point of view, and so-called social economy companies do nothing but further down the services provided and have poorly paid workers so that they can also be the rabbits in business interests and their consciences, as you do, for example, with renewable energy sources. That's what's gonna happen. Where the local population reacts to enter wind turbines and other sources of renewable energy, a pretext for a municipal company will come to set up and then the big interests will come to buy these businesses ready. That is why you are not banning the participation of the municipalities in public limited companies. Through this you are further strengthening the symphony between municipalities and businesses. The PPPs are generalised and concession contracts are the same. You are also challenging as the "first time left" the business activity of the municipalities and even more the activity of the business groups, giving up the real estate of the municipalities up to ninety years for a number of economic activities, such as tourism and also providing incentives when these privatisations are made. You have not prevented, but hastens to privatise the water - the EAFRD, EAFRD are even more relocated - or waste management. For days your governments have become the factories with concession contracts or are being carried out in Tripoli as well as in other waste areas. The third feature is the attitude towards workers. You don't differentiate towards the workers. The differentiations are very small, because you continue to have a significant proportion of the workers in the municipalities in hostage, through the various programmes, either apprenticeships, contractors or contract staff and work. With regard to what you say that you will go one by one with regard to the departures, I will not put it in the numbers that exist in the medium term - it speaks until 2022 for seven hundred and eighty-six hirings and eight thousand nine hundred forty departures, that is, it is not even an equal number - but I will put it on the basis of reality. There are currently twenty-five thousand workers in municipalities with different forms of employment, with flexible work, from 'Help at Home', from school care and cleanliness, from kindergartens and nurseries? What's going to happen to this whole world? It will continue to exist in the same hostage and in the recycling of just work. That is why the municipalities, Mr Minister, are champions in the accidents of workers, and do not save them any of the former Committee on Health and Safety, whether they were working or not. I wish that the questions of health, safety and the protection of workers were only the committees. For example, there is an old fleet in the waste, which poses risks to the very lives of workers, while celebrating the hires made in the cleanliness sector made on the basis of the knife you put in. You want to hire permanent staff to clean up? Then you have to increase the fees because they are paid by the municipalities themselves through the compensation and there are - and you know it very well, Minister - dozens of municipalities that do not make a request, because they have not been able to increase their fees at all and, in particular, the smaller, mountains and islands. If you see it, it'll look very clearly what I'm saying. For example, the Municipality of Ikaria did not make any application, because it could not really increase municipal fees and did not want to see why it has different philosophy and logic. From this point of view, since there is this anti-Flemish and anti-Flemish policy, there is also suffocating control over the municipalities and regions that you are supporting it even more. Not only do you keep the Economic Observatory, which was within the framework of the fiscal discipline of the municipalities, and it was the enforcement of the memorials and you had denounced it as an Observatory, but you are now maintaining the Economic Observatory and you are putting the Legal Affairs Supervisor in place. What does "legality" mean? The decisions must go hand in hand with the laws. If a municipal council takes a decision to relieve parts of the workers or the people and does not go hand in hand with the laws, the Justice Supervisor returns it as an unacceptable decision. On this occasion, Minister, I would like an answer, a clear position on the JRC's amendment. You know her very well, this is not the first time that this issue is raised. It is the proposal made by dozens of municipalities and adopted by the CEDEFOP, the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities, to allow municipalities, under terms and conditions, to reduce the debts of the most vulnerable social groups to the municipalities so that they do not have to proceed to electronic auctions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Does the municipality implementing such a logic, on the basis of your draft today, violate the public interest? So this logic, the vague violation of the public interest that the mayor can cease under the responsibility of the Minister and a committee that you define, what does it mean? Because he did not conform to suggestions, it means. What the previous governments have done is to maintain this self - control, without any specific definition of the public interest, what is it that arbitrarily leaves every minister to be able to stop anyone who is unsatisfactory? That is why we say that even through this draft law you are even faster in converting the municipalities and regions into an administrative gear for the implementation of anti-grassroots, class policy. From this point of view, you are trying in these contexts and it has been built in the previous years and that is what you want to reflect on the change of electoral law, the wider agreement between the political forces, the civil servants and the orientation of the municipalities and regions. And that's why just as ripe fruit now you bring the simple analogue. Look, no issues of democracy or participation. All of this is just to incorporate the popular layers and turn them into accomplices to anti-popular politics. Because here you are bringing us a referendum caricature, which will be of an advisory nature. With your limitations - the year of elections, the year of parliamentary elections, the year of European elections, there is no other year as things go - it will never be. But even if it is done, it will be of an advisory nature. It will not alter any decision and will be able to reverse it by the city council or referendum, not only the municipal council but also the government itself. As we have said before, this referendum is the cheese in the face of the people participating and becoming an accomplice to anti-popular policy. We say that we will support the articles that apply the simple analogue to the municipal and regional council. They are the only articles that we shall be voting on from the bill in an overall philosophy only because we regard it as a step in the representativeness of the vote, not even an equitable vote, because there is no equitable vote. It doesn't affect the unemployed with the factory chief. It doesn't affect the badger himself with the banker.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u161	In the pollen?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u162	The influence of the world before the poll, Minister. So we say that it is not even the vote and the possibility of one's having an effect, nor can it be the medicine to deal with corruption and interlocutory. I'll remind you of something older. Italy simply had analogues. The system of politics then changed due to corruption and interlocutory and mafia relations and abolished simple proportionality in the late 1980s.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u163	30 percent of the municipalities are simply proportional.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u164	He had corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u165	And corruption was complex, and it was all, and it was simply analogous, Italy. He had the same stuff. So you don't face corruption or the complexity, which is inherent to the system itself. And, of course, we do not have the illusions that simply an electoral system can change the nature of the municipalities, regions from urban mechanisms to anti-linguistic, anti-democratic mechanisms.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u166	Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u167	In politics one of the basic rules you serve is the question of consistency, consistency of words and works. Here we have a Minister, who has now been in all the media for a year and a half, turned around the country, met with all the actors who said: 'I will go on decoupling the European elections with the municipal elections. My personal commitment." And today because of the planning of Maximos he is forced to take it back and does not have the personal gum to say: "I resign from my position. Let another one come. I don't throw the government." You don't think it's happened in the past? Has it not happened in the past, ministers, to resign because the government's planning has changed? It's done. I'll give you a personal example. Yiannis Varvitsiotis resigned from the Ministry of Education - a resignation that Kostas Karamanlis did not accept at the time, but was announced properly - because the government's line of navigation changed in relation to the law on higher education that was then introduced. This shows personal consistency. You, Minister, have today shown exactly the morale in relation to the consistency of all Members of Parliament's majority. You overrun Panos Kammenos on the skilled pirates around critical political issues and finally brought this bill, which one thing you said you would do and with which the local government agreed, a bill that no one wants, but none of the bodies that represent it. The only provision they had spoken positively was the distinction between municipal elections and European elections. All the other provisions you bring have been condemned by people from different political groups, from all over the political spectrum, because they do not solve the basic problems of self-government. I have served local self-government, and I know very well that on a municipal council what matters is that decisions are taken quickly and that they will not be delayed by the citizens. Do you solve it? Oh, no. Are you facing the problem of how public works take place in local government? Oh, no. Are you facing the problem of how transparency comes to the supplies of the municipalities? Oh, no. Are you facing the problem of how the social services of the municipalities become more functional? Oh, no. All you're facing is your problem with the impoverished administration of the municipalities and you're putting your reservations into the transaction process on tomorrow's municipal elections to take up anti-democratic positions. Because if you really wanted to change the election system, you wouldn't choose the mayor with 50 plus 1%. Otherwise, give them the responsibilities of 50 plus 1% to truly exercise sovereignty and the municipal council to control it. No, you didn't choose that way either. You chose only the way of the transaction by representing specific interests and even the interests of the small minorities, which you represent in the field of local government. How you've even been dealing with your top announcements, such as the change in the time of municipal elections, which has been the top announcement over the last year and a half, it shows how you deal with all the issues that have to do with the elections. First of all, you are announcing four-fold elections in May. That's what you're doing. You are also announcing municipal and regional elections and national elections. And you are bringing about the fragmentation of the large regions without taking into account the administrative division of the Attica. Do you want to reform? To go the districts of Attica, depending on the Antiregions of Attica. To identify a electoral map with an administrative map. Today you are making a change that comes from nowhere. We believe in the fragmentation of the major regions. We believe it in the context of a whole different electoral law and system, which will inspire democracy and transparency, but also something else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. We ask your Government, which today strongly denies the vote on Greeks abroad. And we're not asking you to invent anything new. We also request that you legislate for the national elections as well as for the European elections. Today all foreigners who live in Europe, at least Greek nationals on the electoral lists, can declare at the beginning of the election year that they intend to vote at their consulate or embassy. Do that! Bring the same provision and vote for the party's roll-call and count on the party's total votes, without changing any other arrangements relating to their representation, etc. Do it! You dare to do so only for those who live in Europe and see what we are going to do with Australia, America and the other continents. Do it! Show that, anyway, you respect those for whom you are constantly cutting, those whom your policy has kicked out and those who remain outside as long as SYRIZA's governance lasts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u168	Mr Nikolaos Paradropoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. For the sake of dialogue, let me start at the point where the previous speaker ended. What has been said by the New Democracy in relation to the vote of residents residing abroad? Firstly, 'why you do not accept it, this is what democracy demands' and secondly, 'because it is something you do not care about.' You know, there's nothing more unfounded. Firstly, how can one say that there is indifference, when this law, this bill, which exists, with the amendment proposed, introduces the creation of a committee which will see the technical issues that exist for the vote of the Greeks abroad, which, of course, need to be resolved. If they are not resolved, we cannot go ahead for the very simple reason that we do not have a national vote, where there is no need for regions. Under our Constitution there are regions, there are municipalities and, therefore, there must be defined exactly what the region will vote for and what city the vote will be for. These issues need to be seen and a necessary technical processing is needed, otherwise the vote cannot exist. There is no census of foreigners so that we know which cities we meet in. There is no preparation for a vote at the same time. It would be absolutely impossible, without any advance, to move in that direction. And, of course, let us not say that this is the fifth of democracy. Let us remember a little that democracy is the civilization of the common place. It is not the citizens of the common blood to vote for those who come from Greek blood two or three generations ago, but have left abroad. Democracy wanted the one who lives in a place to affect the authority of this place by voting, not someone far away, not to pay the consequences of his vote - rightful though - wrong or not by voting anything. Therefore, it is right that those who have left our country should vote occasionally for study, because of economic difficulties and are going to return. It is not reasonable, however, that he who is a second, third generation simply because he has the Greek blood. Because that's racialism. That's a vote of blood. It has nothing to do with democracy. At last, a little democracy education! The ones who call her name a little bit of education!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u170	Are they on the electoral lists?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u171	Please don't interrupt! Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, this bill also solves operational issues. It also solves some important issues of democracy. He deserves the name "KILLENIS" for that very reason. "CLAIN" - you know - is not an accidental person. He's the one the oligarchs were silenced. Thucydides doesn't know Klisthene, nor does Plato know him. The "Athens State" of Aristotle, who saw all the states. Herodotus knows him. But it's a symbol of democracy, Klistheis. And the reminder of his name here is really important. But it also has another important issue in the bill, which regulates it in a way that favours democracy. And this is the steps taken towards a mere analogy. Of course, representation is today a structural element of democracy. Today democracy is either representative or not. And, of course, we cannot count that, you know, you are very concerned with representation, but you are not concerned with efficiency. First of all, what does it mean by representation? Representation means that there is between the voter and the exercise of power a relationship of binding political mandate and a relationship of accountability. Isn't that a guarantee of democracy? And isn't a efficiency check? Is it not a promotion of efficiency to have a specialised accountability of the exercisers, which is guaranteed by representativeness? Efficacy, you know, is a positive value, but it's a secondary value. It's not divorcing with democracy. Does that sound funny to you, Mr. Karamanlis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u173	No, something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u174	Yes, sir. Anyway, I would like to say that effectiveness is not self-evident, because the dictatorships also have effectiveness in the exercise of power. You like to talk about Macedonia. Macedonia deserves every interest. But if you have read the "Philippines" of Demosthenes, Democrat reminds us that democracy is less effective because it has consultations, decision-making processes, which are often time-consuming, and others are making first and make some decisions that can militaryly, for example, be surprising in a more effective way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Efficacy is also wanted by dictators. And Machiavelli wanted effectiveness and supported a system that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u175	Mr. Paraskevi, please, your time has run out. A minimum tolerance, but please shorten your time to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u176	Yes, Mr. President, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u177	Don't open a conversation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u178	I'm sorry, but you're addressing me and I'm addressing you. The JRC Parliamentary Representative spoke 16 minutes instead of 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u179	Excuse me, do you compare the time of a speaker to the time of any party's parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u180	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u181	Every parliamentary representative, Mr Paradipoule, has the right to protagonists, to dentology and to tritology, that is to say, a total of 21 minutes. It is therefore using as much time as it wants within the limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure. So please don't be smart from the Step now. Do you have anything else to say? Add for 10 seconds something more, otherwise we will move on to the next speaker. Please. Please. We're gonna have a dialogue now?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u182	Mr President, if you are not apologizing to me for'smart', I will certainly go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u183	If you wish to come down, it is your right. Nobody kicked you out. Mr Athanasios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. However, I too would like to say that time is not generally respected, not just for today's sitting. Other colleagues from seven minutes speak ten and eleven minutes, and for those who are last few minutes the time is limited to five and six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u185	Mr Athanasios, if you make the point, the Bureau naturally agrees with the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u186	I'm saying it in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u187	It makes friendly efforts to keep time and expects you to set an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u188	I shall begin, Mr President, from where Mr Paradulopoulos left off, and I have to say this. With our proposal for a law - the Professor left, but I say it for colleagues - we are not giving the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u189	When he says "smart"...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u190	Others have gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u191	Will you let me talk? I already lost forty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u192	Come on, Mr. Athanasios, please, go on. Please don't interrupt underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u193	To be clear, read well the proposal for a law that we have tabled. We do not give the right to vote by the Greek Parliament. That right has it. We are simply giving the opportunity to exercise this right at the workplace, at the place of residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u194	When you were Minister, why didn't you legislate? I ask you why you were Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u195	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u196	Is that why? I'll answer you later, but let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u197	Mr President, gather your comments and when the time comes or if you wish to speak on a specific point, please address the Bureau. Look, now what's going on with the vacation. Rightly afterwards Mr Athanasios will protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u198	Tie the time. We arrived in the second minute and he hasn't been able to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u199	Uh, of course, we don't disagree on that. Come on, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u200	Take a good look, because you've become the country's colony, that's all I'm saying. And today, with yesterday's events, you've made the country a colony. You know, and you know what I mean. We do not give the right to exercise that right. They have that. They're registered in polls, in the electoral lists of our country. When they are in Greece they vote. So we give them the opportunity to exercise the right in the places where they are located. That's the philosophy and it should be Mr. Paradoxopoulos here to explain it to him and read our proposal. Our proposal is complete. It does not matter what has been said that we cannot know which Members will vote because there has been no census of Hellenism. That's right. But many countries, like Italy and others, are voting for the State vote. At a time when we will make the census of Hellenism, which is very difficult, because we do not know who is in Africa, how many in Australia and in any other country, then we can say that they are also voting for the Members of the country where they are. Now they're voting for the State ballot. So this is a full proposal. And I would like to tell you this, Minister. You say 'we are doing a committee'. What did the committee need when you have this proposal for two and a half years? We submitted it in March 2016, we returned it in 2018. Why has the committee not been set up since, so as to see the weaknesses, imperfections, and we are here to correct them these years, or even today with the committee, we could make corrections? Nor is it right what has been said that we should see whether they can vote by a representative. It's wrong. Why is it wrong? Because our Constitution forbids it. The Constitution tells us direct and universal suffrage, so it cannot be done. All that can be done is the letter vote. It is a technical issue, which could be brought up to the elections, during the work of the relevant presidential decrees, to establish this as well. So I do not think the objections are based. So what you say you will appoint a committee is pretexts in sin, because it could have been done. And I say that in order to answer your colleague's question, why did we not do so? Yes, we wanted to, but there was disagreement. Then we were a government of three parties and there was disagreement from a partner. We do not hide or cover our weaknesses, as you do with your famous partner. So we are talking about reality, that is, we wanted it to be done, there have been disagreements at that time and it has not been done. It's simple. Are you going to tell us that? Come on, we have tabled a proposal to correct it. Don't you want it to be our proposal? Bring your own proposal to vote in favour. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Listen, Minister - and I am ending - because obviously your colleagues have not told you the details of our proposal: the conditions are laid down for the exercise of the electoral right in the general parliamentary elections by Greek foreigners and our seafarers, who are on board ships that are berthed abroad. All issues relating to the electoral process are dealt with, such as the place where elections are held, the committees responsible for elections, the procurement of ballot papers, other electoral material. The buildings of the Greek diplomatic authorities, consulates and embassies are used as voting shops. Representatives of the judiciary can be appointed from a certain degree and above and also from the judiciary representatives, who will go from Greece, when they are not enough. Same for the voters. The required appropriations are managed by the budget of your Ministry, the Ministry of Interior. In particular, issues relating to this electoral procedure are dealt with in accordance with - and that is where we refer - with the basic electoral legislation. We refer to the basic electoral law of Members of Parliament. Special allowances shall be set for all. All the issues, if you notice them, there's not even the slightest gap. Compensation for Judges, allowances for agents who will be entitled to travel all of them. We anticipate how to prevent double-vote, in a series of provisions. We also provide for all disciplinary and criminal offences to be involved in violating electoral law. So I do not see why, what is your argument you want to make with a committee when we bring you a package ready? Finally, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u201	Mr. Athanasios, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u202	Thank you very much for the time you have given me, Mr President. The rest about the simple analogues, Mr. Voridis said. I just want to say that nine months ago the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Poulakis, was home and I was given the opportunity, Minister, to say why the mere analogy, apart from the intergovernmentalism that will create in the regions and municipalities, will erupt - and I said it - and I mentioned it - strife, compromises, abuses and blackmail between the factions that will have been elected. And by the end of the day, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u203	Good, Mr. Athanasios. I think you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u204	I repeat you said you'd bring it in the fall. This doctrine is not possible 'every island and municipality'. It is not possible, Minister, Lesvos, Rhodes, Corfu and other islands with large volumes and populations to form a municipality. You could bring the landscaping bill to do our best. I hope that you will be honest and bring this into the autumn, so we will be given the opportunity to study it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u205	Good. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Katsaniotis, I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Skourletis. He had asked for the floor for an amendment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general number 1684 and a special 73, which is jointly with Mrs Gerovas, and which has three provisions to which I shall refer. The first provides for and allows for mutual transfers to workers in JEPs, from JEPs to JEPs, which has so far not been the case. It is functional and we must give this possibility. The second is that, for heads of JEPs so far, there has been - and this still applies - the possibility of being from the Civil Affairs Sector IC and the IP. We say that if there is no such specialty, given that there is a five-year pre-service requirement, we should also go to other sectors. That is what I think will solve some issues. Third one is...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u207	That's very negative. It's changing something you've agreed to.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u208	The third is the possibility for the coordinators of decentralised administrations to have a special counsellor and a partner, not of course by hiring some young people, but by posting from the public sector, so that we do not have any costs. The last thing I want to say is to Mr Athanasios. Mr. Athanasios, why didn't you make the division of the municipality of Lesvos? Each time you go out and tell me about the division of the municipality of Lesvos. Why didn't you break up because it's so right? We'll bring that topic, break the dogma...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u209	When were we supposed to do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u210	When you were government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u211	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u212	Mr. Athanasios, because you tell me every time, I tell you that we will see the exceptions. I say it because you keep telling me. You should tell Mr. Samara.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u213	Good. Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsaniotis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u214	Mr President, may I answer the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u215	No, please, no answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u216	Mr President, can I not answer Mr Athanasios as Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u217	Did you ask for the floor, Mr. Famele? What exactly do you want? Why are you asking for a reason? We do not deny, as the Bureau, the word for the ministers - alas! - but for what? Do you want to answer something said by a Member? What exactly? Explain why you want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u218	Mr President, it may have been against the Rules of Procedure that I have taken the floor and asked Mr Athanasios a question. Why am I saying that? I was expecting a democratic response perhaps to the level of morality that we have among ourselves. The answer, however, "do not speak, because you have become the colony" I think it should be returned to him. Because for me a colony is a country that loses the fifth rating, which has the bankrupt Brain, which loses its GDP and you have done so as a government. We inverted all this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u219	Mr Katsaniotis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u220	Mr President, I cannot start on the occasion of the two ministers. First of all, Mr Skourletis, I thought you would change your election date again when I heard of an amendment. You're changing tomorrow. Because you have it easy than I see. The second is that when the evaluations were closed, you said the previous ones were worshiped. When they opened the border and said that there were no borders at sea, the islands filled up with immigrants. What's that? I'm fine! It's all good! That's Left! So getting into the matter today is a difficult day. It's a day when NATO, you know, this defensive body that for the Left was bad in the past, meets. The Prime Minister of the country who has melted many pairs of shoes going to the US Embassy is there and he signs a very bad deal for the country. Actually, he's giving our main negotiating weapon, without any consideration, and he's glad about it. The other key partner says that when he comes to the House he will not vote for it, but that's where he signs it. If what is happening today is not really tragic for the country, then what is it? By entering the bill brought to us by Mr. Skourletis, after three and a half years we imagined that today we are going to discuss reform in local government. We thought we'd talk about transferring funds from central state to local government. We thought you would have spoken, as you did three and a half years, with district rulers, mayors, and we will be talking about responsibilities and problems that exist in responsibilities. We'd talk about resources and how we'll really strengthen local government. What are we talking about? When and how the elections for local government will take place. So, Mr. Skourletis, instead of a real reformist who said it would be for local government, he becomes the new Koutsogiorgas. In fact, he's only concerned about electoral law. Only! What else does he care? The date of the election. It's changing, it's going forward, it's going back. Suddenly SYRIZA MPs say we don't like this date, then a Sunday back. Who do you think you're laughing at, Mr. Skourlet? These arguments you were telling us not to do so, do you think they can make fun of all of us here and of the people of local government? Who are you kidding? You really don't respect the citizen. The insolence that your law will bring and it will fortunately not apply, because it will not be possible to implement it, will not concern the mayors. The mayors will be fine. They will be elected, they will not be able to pass anything, and they will be stuck everything. Insolence, Mr. Skourletis, concerns citizens. Citizens will have the problem, but you don't care. All you care about is creating problems in the institutions that you do not control. You're doing it everywhere, anyway. You don't just do it in self-government, you do it to all the independent authorities. Why? You don't believe in them. That's your logic. You did it in universities before, we all remember it. You made a general assembly, won it, occupied it, and then the general conventions ceased without quorums. You remember them fine, we all knew them. So what you did in universities now do it in the country. And that, you know, it's dangerous. To conclude, I shall refer to the vote of the people of Europe. What scares you? Really tell us what's scaring you. Do you think that in this country only residents have the right to vote? Do you think that in this country the Greeks around the world, which is our great power, should not be related to the womb, to the homeland? If they have to, say it. If you believe it, we'll figure it out. The big problem, do you know what it is? That you don't believe that you don't want the Greek homosexuals to have contact with the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u221	Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u222	Three and a half years, what have you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u223	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u224	Let go of that little fairy tale. Can you believe it? If you believe it, say it, we'll figure it out. I like the fact that you believe it, partner. Not only will the people vote, the Greeks vote, we will find the way, our relatives have contact with their homeland. If you want it, it will be done. And you know, that's what's gonna happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u225	Mr. Karras from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u226	Mr President, I have to say this. Just two years ago, at the same Step, on July 20, 2016, in support of simple analogue and warmly, I felt as a reformer, that I also contributed to a reform. Sadly, however, today, after two years, I feel as a counter-reformer in a hypothetical government reform, and I will be specific to what point I am going to make. The government therefore brings an amendment to it and says that it is part of the major electoral districts. I, of course, want to be consistent with what I have been in this Chamber so far. I have realised that there is a wider consensus on partitioning the Attica regions, but I have to give my own arguments as a counter-reformer, as a Calvin, as Luther. I have, of course, informed the parliamentary group to which I belong, and I would like to say it before the National Representation. So it comes and the government tells us that we will break down the Second Election Region of Athens and the Region of Attica. So I started to think about what criteria the government is taking to make this proposal. The criteria which I see in the explanatory statement are, therefore, that they are designed to rehabilitate the elected and candidates of the major regions from economic interests and from the hugging of the media. So I look at the number of MPs, who were elected by a cross in 2015 and I see that, in January 2015, nineteen colleagues from SYRIZA had been elected in the Region of Second Athens. Do you want us to call them that they were dependent on economic interests or that they had accepted the hugging of the media? I will not say that, but it seems that you are very fond of it, Mr Skourletis, the opposition, and you want to make us an economy in our pocket, because you say that there is an issue of economic expenditure. I must speak personally for myself. Such an issue of the expense of election money I am never going to face, and I am never going to face up to it. I therefore think that we should now stay on what scientific criteria they really are needed to get us to propose the division of regions. So I have international standards ahead of me. What do international standards say? They say that they must be taken into account for the determination of the limits of the electoral district, the community of interests, the convenience and its natural limits. Can one be understood that only the fact of the administrative division in municipalities - and I would like to remind you that the current regional municipalities were districts of wider Athens, which have emerged along the way - is not a community of people's interest? Are there any difficulties in contacting the people with the candidates? So the explanatory statement itself says - and here it is a matter that I must comment on - that this partition seeks the proximity of candidates and citizens. 'As soon as possible', you say, Minister. So I'm asking to see what's closeness. Doesn't Athens Region have transportation? Don't we all have cars? You give me as an example that from a village of Agraphs it's hard to get down to Carditsa - I Karditsa like it, I also have relatives in Karditsa, so it doesn't have any reproach I'm saying - to get in touch with the center, to understand it. Then there would be a matter. We should either see which division we have to follow or improve transport conditions. You do not have a strong argument to partition the regions. That is why I am perhaps the only one today, despite all the unanimity in the Chamber, who I support that fragmentation is not currently being carried out for the purpose of serving democracy. That is why I put these arguments, for this reason: anthropogeography is a single one. We will meet refugees from Egaleo. We will meet refugees from Kifisia. We'll meet Cretans, Pontius in all these municipalities. It is a homogeneous population, it is a community of interests and it needs the same representation. The division is not used as an argument to transfer municipalities from one region to another in order to balance electoral results if they are not pleasurable. Finally, I will only say this: have you studied the internal movement as the Ministry of the Interior and what is the anthropogeography of the voters in the municipalities of Second Athens? Do you know that there is an internal movement and the voter of Aigaleo is currently residing in Glyfada and vice versa? So what will this change serve? It will simply satisfy, if necessary, the Government's attempt to overthrow an existing balance. It will not serve the interests of the citizens. The explanatory statement does not give us the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u227	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Shahinides, I would like us to come up with a little discussion on the rest of the procedure, as regards today's sitting. We will end today, with a view to the twelfth night, with the aim of speaking as many Members as possible, because the list, as you know, has been very long. The aim, to put it that way, is to get to number sixty. I say this, so that Members can be informed and know who to speak. I repeat, therefore, that the aim is to speak by 12 o'clock at midnight, the registered to sixty in the list of speakers. They're thirty-seven more MPs. I would also like to point out that, firstly, it will be up to five minutes and, secondly, as far as the Bureau is concerned - because so far such requests have been made and, possibly, others have come - that, from now on, there will only be a change in the positions of Members who are after the number sixty. I am referring to mutual changes, if anyone needs it, if for some reason he cannot speak tonight. Come on, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. "CLOSURE I" today, "KALIKRATS" in May 2010 by PASOK, "KOPSTITRIA" in October 1997 again with PASOK. And then PASOK, PASOK today with the help of the New Democracy. But I wonder why you insult three historical names, giving them to these plans and you didn't name them very simply Marx, Lenin, Trotsky. It has been said by all the parties in this House, the so-called constitutional arch - and that is undeniable - that a large part of the disgraceful debt was for the municipalities and their mismanagement, but municipalities which you had in your hands. Through your own choices, we have arrived here where we arrived. Everything that has been accomplished since post-Multipulation, in relation to decentralisation, has destroyed it in a few years, creating a policing with your plans for the municipalities and the memoranda you have voted on. I'll argue with that. As an example, I will mention my own municipality from which I come, the former municipality of Kryos Vrisis, who, with the previous project, "KALIKROTI", has become one with the Municipality of Pellas. What happened? The population before the 'KALIKARAT' was close to the eight thousand inhabitants. Today, we are talking about almost four thousand people. They shut down public services. The Peace Court, the IKA, the OTE, three banks, has been closed down while the police station has been degraded to a police station. All of this was made by your own choices. But here, Minister, Mr Skourletis, I would remind you that you were in contact with a movement of citizens from Krya Vrysi, who had collected signatures and had given them your word that you will see very seriously in the spatial planning the re-establishment of the Municipality of Kyrias Vrysi, something which also morphologically and spatially is something that should be imposed. All of this, however, concerns the left's policies. That doesn't surprise us, because that's what you were telling us when you were out-parliamentarians with 2%. However, the choices your own are currently commenting on leaders and leaders of the Left of Europe as follows: The leader of the French Left Jean-Luc Melanson, some fifteen days ago, described Greek Prime Minister Tsipras as one of the most prestigious figures of European political life. In fact, he went on to say: "Tsipras was elected to promise a left radical programme and when they presented him with an unacceptable memorandum, he put it in a referendum, but without accepting the will of his people. He betrayed his word." And he wonders why he sells public property and destroys his country. Finally, it says: 'I do not want there to be a single French citizen who believes that if I take over power, I will become another Tsipras'. You are a bad example for all the leftists. But that does not make us any impression, your ideology, the left ideology, as does the communist ideology. It is no accident that historically you appeared exactly the time that the banks showed up. That's a bad thing. As far as the draft law is concerned, I shall only refer to Article 248, which is a luxury for a government that is out of borders and names of regions to the ground and national dignity. Once again, to make a reminder of the fact that a different thing is citizenship and different citizenship. You should tell your services and those who manage them, if they are not obsessed left-wings like you, that they are not meant to grant citizenship, as the heading of Article 248 says, because citizenship, as you know, is neither awarded nor given. Citizenship, not to mention Greek etymology, which is fine for you, has it with its birth. What you insist on doing with your betrayal policies is not a award of citizenship to illegal immigrants, but arrogant naturalizations. In other words, you make them citizens of the country with Greek identities, but you do not make them Greek, because you cannot. And you do that, not because charity caught you, but for good reasons: because it is your future electoral basis, those who will vote for you because in the next ballots, whenever you set them up, you will not find a single vote of Greek. On the substance, however, what you are doing now is to bring back to the central administration and supervision of the Ministry of Interior the competent naturalization services on the ground. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in ten seconds. Until first you said and voted exactly the opposite of what you are introducing with this article. Neither the need to dismantle the decentralised state administration, nor to harmonise procedures by standardising them, nor to avoid conflicting decisions which you are proposing in the article's explanatory statement are reasons why you are allegedly forced to legislate. Keep in mind: Whatever electoral system and use, the rise of the Golden Dawn is given and you do not stop us either with the impurities or with the silence conspiracy. The weather is near.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u229	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is under panic. In view of the loss of power, it is making extreme moves that are seducting the country's course in the future, undermining and destroying the institutions. The municipalities were held up during the crisis and were able to provide services to the citizens, despite the narrow budgetary margins. There are municipalities that, with good administration and use of their assets, managed to carry out projects with own resources, covering the weaknesses of the state. One would expect the government, through dialogue, to agree with the representatives of government in institutional interventions which would resolve the identified problems faced by municipalities and regions to improve the daily lives of citizens. There is a grid of competences in the triangle - regions - municipalities that need to be reformed, a new division of competences, so that there is a direct responsibility to deal with problems, to avoid duplication of powers and to limit bureaucracy. Did the government do that? Oh, no. Just to disorientate it is announcing the creation of a committee to deal with the particular issue that is major. In other words, you have been preparing a bill for three and a half years and the most important issue relating to architecture and the functioning of state and self-government, you have not dealt with it and you have referred it to a committee for the invisible future. It has even been heard by representatives of the government that the redistribution of resources and responsibilities would now be unconstitutional and we must wait for the Constitution to be revised. As if it were not unconstitutional, the 2015 Act of Legislation, by which the Government attempted to commit the cash resources of the municipalities. Do I need to remind you of the relatively recent legislation with which you have compelled and actually committed the municipalities' reserves to an account, to use them as a pillow for the false exit from the memoranda? There are also problems that have been created in the municipalities and regions by the new legislative framework that you have brought about public works, so there are huge delays, but also insurmountable obstacles to the implementation of projects by government. Did you touch that? Oh, no. Are you going to strengthen the revenues of self-government through two specific sources, such as direct allocation of percentage to the municipalities from the Green Fund, but also from the archaeological sites? Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen, the entire bill is a repetition of the articles of the 'Kalikara' or significant changes to them. The only thing that interested the government was the imposition as a system of elections proportional to the municipal elections, to dismantle and weaken the municipalities and regions, to create dissolutionary situations and rescue the shapes supported by SYRIZA, turning them into regulators but also blackmailers of the majority. Those who have commanded municipalities or regions know that simple analogue will cause administrative chaos to the municipalities. We have heard the government link the change in the electoral law to the decoupling of the municipal elections from the European elections. It's another story, another of SYRIZA's many lies that collapsed after the post-mortem initiative was deposited. The SYRIZA Members simply signed up, in fact, to sign, an amendment to which they raised what they said and incorporated into the bill for the municipal elections in October and their decoupling from the European elections, in the difference that now, with this amendment, the municipal elections are linked not only to the European elections but also to the parliamentary elections. Because that's Mr. Tsipras' design. Simple analogue does not lead to consensus, but to incomplete political transactions based on the provisions of the bill encouraging such transactions, such as mergers after the election, transferring consultants to other combinations and similar provisions, moving in the direction of transaction, bargaining and extortion. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has a Prime Minister who says with the greatest comfort the greatest lies. It has a politically immoral government that does not hesitate to destroy and dismantle institutions, such as self-government, finding that it cannot control them. That is why the government and Mr. Tsipras personally will be crushed by election and strategics. Everything that this government does is not expelled from the need to defend the interests of the country and of the citizens, but from the political tactics and the need for political survival of Mr. Tsipras. It is apparent from the fact that the Greeks are allowed to vote abroad, which the government is diligently avoiding or placing obstacles and prerequisites to prevent Greeks from exercising their inalienable right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. The only clear solution is the one contained in the New Democracy amendment and it provides that Greeks from abroad, who are already on the electoral lists, will be able to exercise their electoral right on the day of the elections to the consulates and embassies of Greece. It is a clear proposal that can be implemented immediately. The government has, however, denied it and refused it. It's stumbling blocks and stumbling blocks. It gives citizenship with concise procedures to immigrants and refugees, but it denies the right for Greeks abroad to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u231	Come on, Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u232	This government is dangerous. Every day that its stay in power poses risks to the country and the citizens. The only way is by direct action to the people to end this period of deterioration, decline and national concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u233	Please, Mr President, may I have the floor for a three-second speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u234	Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u235	I would like to ask the government, but also the Bureau, for the subject of the amendments. I am counting on amendments, Mr President. We have now reached twenty-four, nine of them ministerial. Okay. Cut. No more! And I tell SYRIZA Members. Of the twenty-four most are parliamentarians. I mean, they're nine ministerial and what's left, thirteen, they're SYRIZA's parliamentarians. You can't do that! We're stopping. It also has legislative work tomorrow. The Summer Department is a normal department. Legislation by the Summer Department. Calm down! This is not the case, Mr President. Order both to the Government and to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u236	Good. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, it deserves a historic retrogression for all the major sectors and reforms in self-government, which has been envisioned, inspired and relocated to polarism by the PASOK and the democratic progressive party. Along with the tens of thousands of pioneers, progressive people, together with the citizens who believed in the power of local societies, we have created a large self-government current. From the six thousand communities of issuing certificates and the advisory district councils until 1981, PASOK created and organised a powerful system of self-government with associations of municipalities and the creation of development links, with democratic planning, the establishment of centralized resources, the establishment of the prefectural government, the "KAPOPITRIIA" programme in 1997 and the "KALIKRATS" programme in 2010. Three hundred and twenty-five municipalities and thirteen regions since 2011 have had the first role in local affairs for regional development with regional programmes and development law. Self-government endured the test during the crisis and proved to have solid bases, that it can give solutions where the state is weak. It supported the citizens and especially the weak. We trusted her and gave her a decisive role with the guaranteed social income, the European Aid Fund for the weak, the 'STRATEGY AND REVENUE' programme. Unfortunately, the SYRIZA Government has removed competences and, indeed, social policy, which has shown that self-government can. He took the resources, doing something reversed by what was happening until they could have been given powers without resources. Now he has taken responsibility and took the resources of the central state to share them. We have, of course, also a number of forms of grants that have returned to 'the actions to be taken'. This concerns even European programmes and funds that are intended to be allocated in an institutional way. After eight years of implementation of KALIKARATIS, we certainly had to do so - and we are doing so on our part - to make a calm and comprehensive assessment in order to make changes, sectors and improvements which will promote the institution and give a new perspective for the next fifteen, twenty years. We must strengthen transparency and the effectiveness of the institution, increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in general, because the new course of self-government cannot be irrelevant from the country's course. We as the Change Movement we embrace all the social forces of work, creation, initiatives, all the weak, those who experience injustice and inequality, and we aspire to join with the vast majority of citizens, the ELLADA project for sustainable development, for the prosperity of society, to exploit our history, our culture, traditions, science, technology, the natural environment, the thousands of infrastructures created throughout the country, our traditional products, the Greek food, tourism, and especially our human potential, which can, in the context of local and regional planning, shape the development identity of the Greek region, Greece's new development identity. That's our framework. This is our pursuit in contrast to governmental methods of fragmentation and dismantling of self-government. The governmental feasibility, which incorporates the bill in its electoral practice, condemns self-government in regression and inefficiency. The Minister from here, Stepma, tried to argue with the opposite arguments from what he said until yesterday about when the elections should be held. It was a pathetic effort. Minister, with a treacherous system you make mayors who will have the majority of the people hostages. This is obviously not just proportional. It is difficult for municipal councils to take decisions, problems will be accumulated, perpetuated and citizens will expect solutions that cannot be given. That is what I think will be overturned by reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The point is that in the face of these arrangements, we in the upcoming elections in municipalities and regions will conceive with the local communities and regional forces, will support the enhanced role of self-government in the reconstruction of the country with regions that can take advantage of the strategic advantages and change the productive – development model and with municipalities that can mobilise productive forces and pursue sustainable social policy. Be sure that this responsible and progressive proposal will come as a need for the country's new self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u238	Mrs Karakosta has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u239	Good evening, everyone and everyone we're here today. Today we manage a bill excellent. I'll explain in what sense. The word "self-government" typically has two synthetics: "administration" and "this". This means that there is a need for much involvement and knowledge of the problems of the municipality. To do this, it means having population and spatial small municipalities as well, so that the people can participate, have an opinion and a position on the problems of their municipality. Unfortunately, this was not achieved by the 'CALKARATIO' bill. And I really do not want the representatives of the PASOK who created the KALIKARATIS to accuse us of a bill of vote. In no case did KALIKARATIS take into account, for example, the geographical characteristics and thus combined mountain municipalities with the plain municipalities. He made very large municipalities next to very small municipalities. So there is tragic flaws, which, of course, - and here I would like to say - this law does not correct them. I think that is why it was also called 'CLEARED I', because we must create 'CLEARED II', which will take account of all these features and correct what is not being corrected now. It makes an effort, of course, to correct these issues with the categorisations of municipalities based on their population, the geomorphological elements of existing municipalities, however. It is therefore very important to see what self-government means and what we should expect from it. For example, issues have been heard - and I would like to put it - about governance. What I have developed before would in no way be possible - possibly, and that is why Mr Vorides is rapporteur on behalf of the New Democracy - to understand that self-government is spreading to the people's movement, to the citizens, and to his request. They understand it quite differently from us, they understand the administrations of a man, a mayor, so cybercracy, when the mayor has no majority. Alas, if there are no compositions on a city council. Where the municipalities have really operated seriously, we will have noticed that there are excellent compositions, which are not often done with the will of the parties represented by the municipal councillors, but with the pressure of the local folk movement. This is of great value, because too many times municipal councils retreat to the idea that it is not serving the interest of the place and that the public will react. So this is the dominant element that we must also highlight with him, of course, the law to come through mere analogy to make compositions within the municipal council. My personal opinion? The mayor should have been elected by the city council. It is not even mature among the mayors who exist today, as you can see, and the majority today are different from what is partly going to promote this law. The word 'transaction' has been mentioned. Freedom does not create ethos. The more we are free, the more opportunities it has to create, the more moral dimension of the process and the management of things. In this same logic and because my time passes, it is important to stress that it is necessary for municipalities to make a four-year budget, which means prior planning at all levels. It is therefore necessary for the mayor to give his customers the four-year programme and to implement it into individual one-year budgets. It is very important that this should be judged by its four-year programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is also very important that the percentage of women in the ballots is increasing. We believe that it is the population that will change to the basis and structure of the place, the way in which it thinks about municipal issues and demands, and in this same logic I really believe that the division of electoral regions is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u240	Ms. Carachosta, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u241	I'm done. I do not think that in politics, when we really think something is right, we should weigh it up with something else that probably does not satisfy us and not even vote for what we believe.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u242	Mrs. Carachosta, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u243	I say this for the New Democracy, which clarifies the concept of the Greeks' vote abroad by the division of Second Athens and the Region of Attica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u244	Mr Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government once again brings a bill to the House. The truth is, you've been waiting for three and a half years to bring in a draft law, despite the fact, the truth is, you have long been proclaiming your standing position for a simple and inappropriate proportion. I hear MPs and SYRIZA officials presenting this bill almost as a victory on the Left. But is that possible? Why do you reduce your so-called left account? Why are you limiting the political interests of the Left solely on the issue of mere analogy? Of all the open issues that we have in local government today, what you judge as major is how to elect local leaders? In other words, what matters with the service of the citizen, what matters with the enormous bureaucracy, do we not all view them here in Parliament as worthy of solution? It is therefore obvious that your decision hides a micro-party interest. This is because today's major issue in local government is the overlap of responsibilities. It is a phenomenon that paralyzes the lives of citizens, since no one knows, and not even the same ones who have the posts, which is the very framework of competences between the first, second degree of local government and even decentralised administration. For three and a half years now, therefore, you have not made any proposal to improve this existing situation. And you come today in a way of anachronistic suggestion of a simple analogue, thus thinking that you'll throw ash in the eyes of the citizens. In the limited time, therefore, I am going to dwell on three points. Firstly, do we honestly believe in this Chamber that the results of the system of government in local government are the main problem? Obviously not. There was no such request from the local authorities, nor from society itself. So why are you doing this? Because, as you have said, you want to strengthen consensus and consensus. At this point you will allow me a comment. SYRIZA is an extremist political organization, I would say, and unconditionally policy. It's not in your DNA either the shocks, the consensuals or the invoking them only when it's to serve your own micro-participatory interests. You or, to be fairer, many of you have not escaped the radical activism of the Left. You are, after all, fans and enthusiasts of the hysterical type of confrontation against everything. The argument, therefore, that a mere analogue will bring culture of cooperation and culture of understanding, because it will force the local authorities to find common ground, is unrealistic. Because anyone who has knowledge at local level of what is happening sees that it is simply not ideological, the problem is on local issues. So why are we entering a process of creating these problems? Because the truth is, SYRIZA just doesn't have any roles in local government and sells left. And because you cannot make left-wings on economic issues, you cannot make left-wings on foreign policy issues, you are selling left-wing on this issue here. In studying this bill, however, one concludes with a single conclusion. In our view and in the view of those who are following us, it is a confession of defeat. You know you will lose elections and try to make this difficult for your opponent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. Of course, we do not live this for the first time in Postmopolitanism, we have lived it and in 1989, when the PASOK did the impossible by changing the electoral law to prevent the New Democracy from having a self-government government. Unlike you, the New Democracy, as a truly centre-right and democratic party, stood courageously in the face of electoral defeat, we never thought of playing political games, preventing our political opponents from coming to power. But whatever you do, you know that, and your constituents know that: you will lose the next elections and your ministers will not be in elections. That is democracy, that is to say, the transformation of parties into power and that is normal in a healthy parliamentary system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u246	Mr. Delis has the floor from the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u247	Can the fake fighters here hide SYRIZA's strategic coexistence with New Democracy? In our opinion, no. And SYRIZA's current "CLOSSTHENIS" is another presumption for this, since it is the continuation of the earlier reactionary laws "KAPESTRIA" and "KALIKRATS". One could even say that this successive, ever greater, reactivation of these laws on local government is also symbolically expressed, since the names of these laws are chosen each time: "KARIKRATS" and now "KLATHENIS", in this order, they are constantly going back to history. And for your next law, who knows? You may choose Dracon or Pissistatos or why not Hammurabi. On the same route, therefore, with these laws comes today with SYRIZA "KLITHENIS" to better adapt the municipalities, the new needs of capitalist development, as well as the evolving reform of the urban political system. And that is precisely what the government is seeking and simply proportionally, so that through broad consensus anti-grassroots policy can be served more firmly. Of course, as a JRC, we are firmly in favour of mere proportionality. In itself, however, an electoral system is never enough to relieve people of their problems. The same is true of the simple analogues which the government is presenting as a guerrilla of democracy. But even to the bounces, this government's concept of democracy is very shallow. Simple analogue ensures for the most - far more - that voting is equal and nothing more, because the electoral expression of the popular will is still subject to all kinds of blackmail, threats and pressures that exist in the political system of a exploiting society such as capitalist. And don't tell us about the nature of the local issues that dictates compositions and partnerships, because there is no local issue that is not dependent on central policy or, of course, on general government policy, which is not implemented at local level. This also shows features in the bill and in the finances of the municipalities, as well as their supervision by the state. So SYRIZA's "KLIZA" deepens the business characteristics of the municipalities, causing them to operate either as self-sufficient businesses by providing even more services to the people, or with all kinds of partnerships with business groups, that is to say, becoming more effective bodies of anti-popular policy and their supervision by the state, that is, it will keep track of them. What does that mean? Given the state sub-financing of the municipalities, which led to - let us say - schools cannot meet their minimum operating needs, sub-financing and SYRIZA applies with the medium term has confirmed, for at least 2022 with KLISTENH, so you seek their main revenues directly from the pockets of their citizens in the sense of competitiveness, which turns every municipal authority service into goods that are increasingly expensive, while the state grant falls into a mere supplementary aid only and as necessary, until their budgets are balanced. This means, of course, that municipal, let's say, children's stations will continue not only to reach but also to put more and more foods and all kinds of municipal services related to social needs, whether sport or culture, on payment. Here, then, is where the municipalities will find the money, strengthening even more their business activities and their returning function, i.e. they too have the pockets of their citizens. And if that's not enough, there's a bank loan. Twenty million was borrowed by the Municipality of Thessaloniki by the European Investment Bank with the guarantee of municipal fees. They will also find them by strengthening their development spirit, as you say, which will say support in every way of the profitability of business groups, so-called investors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need less than a minute, Mr President. They stand out here in the "CLOSHEN" arrangements for the so-called exploitation of the real estate of the ATTs, by which the government invites the so-called investors to exploit any municipal service, resources and infrastructure, whether they are municipal areas, sports infrastructure or anything else. And on top of all these concessions, exploitation, etc. provide for private capital and exemption from taxes and charges. That's the kind of social person we're talking about. Eat up all day from New Democracy and other urban parties for all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u248	Please, Mr. Delis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u249	I'm closing, Mr. President. And if a mayor, who will oppose all of this, is also found, then "KLITHENIS" gives the Minister the right even to stop him. That's a democracy we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u250	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, which is Mr Antoniadis, Mr Spirtz asked to speak on an amendment. Mr. Spirtzi, I think two minutes are enough. You may develop it so we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u251	Let Mr Spirtzis tell us about the extremely urgent matter of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u252	I'll tell you, Mr. Voridis. Ms. Bakoyannis, who's next to you, can tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u253	All Mrs. Bakoyannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u254	Now do not open up a cycle of controversy on this. Come on, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u255	He can tell you, because he had advised us in the Transport Ministry's bill just about this arrangement you have in your hands and it has to do with the small cubic quadruple motorcycles...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u256	Oh, I'm late.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u257	Late again? A month ago, we made a commitment that in a month, we'll bring her in and bring her in. You have also told us the problems that exist with specific small islands that are not allowed to be large motorcycles and we have brought them, as we have committed. Well, no delay, then. So, Mr Voridis, your side may inform you of the whole amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u258	I want to know about the emergency rather than the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u259	Now the procedure is defined for professionals, who rent quadricycles of small cubic cycles that were licensed. That is to say, what the process is now to get permission from their municipality, how it is determined whether or not it is allowed by the municipality and local government, how the municipal council decides on the carrying capacity, i.e. how many quadricycles and what streets there may be. There are transitional provisions, so that within the tourist season, during this tourist season, until these procedures are carried out by the municipal councils, these professionals can be active unless the municipal council decides otherwise. That's why it's urgent, Mr. Voridis. Let me also tell you the number of amendments. She's the special number 1689 and special 78.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u260	Thank you, Minister. Mr Antoniadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. What we have seen here these three days in the House, not even in Zimbabwe. The Minister responsible, Mr Skourletis, reports a million reasons for disconnecting self-government elections from the European elections. He builds an ideological manifesto and then comes overnight and changes it. Actually, they're changing it to him. Resign, Minister. There's also the resignation. Of course, between the resignation and the damned ass you chose the fucker. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft legislation 'Classhenis', local government reform, deepening democracy, strengthening participation. Heavy titles, as you used to in SYRIZA. Still rings in my ears that famous bill "relaunching the economy" in the first months of 2015, as well as applause and enthusiasm with his vote. The result? Three years we have come to recover from that reset. I begin with the break-up of the second Athens. All SYRIZA speakers talked about democracy, more democracy, deepening democracy. I will speak of SYRIZA's hypocritical attitude to democracy. Yes, the Second Athens and other major regions "remove eye". They had to have broken out for decades, but the serious diseases, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have not been cured by aspirin, because there was a need here for serious reform in relation to the constituencies and the multi-stage all over the country, because the large regions create heterogeneous outbreaks of power and conditions of inter- and corruption. Tell me which country in the world is this homogeneity in the electoral districts. I looked into our neighborhood in the advanced economies and democracies. England, one-sided. France, one-sided with little peculiarities. EC internal market, economic and social cohesion, economic and Why do these countries - and not just - have equivalent regions? Because this is how they ensure justice, equal opportunities and the same conditions for their citizens, as our Constitution lays down. Why should the inhabitants of the Athens Peristeri not be able to see his MP as often as the inhabitants of Florina, that is, the small regions and wait in line after six hundred thousand people? All citizens of Greece, whether as candidates or as ordinary citizens, must have equal opportunities and conditions, as set out in our Constitution, and this guarantees that the equivalent electoral regions, one-sided or at the very same time as Greece, are guaranteed. Equality and equalisation. This is the real reform, which the country needs to stop maliciousness, monetarism, heterogeneous outbreaks of power, interlocutory and corruption, and to make democracy genuinely deepened and flattened. You bring legislation on public works that lengthens the time and makes it bureaucratic and, in any case, instead of solving it, it paralyses efficiency. I now come to the simple analogue. Bring in the simple analogue, the simplest it exists. You are thus creating powerless mayors and strong minorities. Do you think that with such a municipal or regional council with a tower image of Babel - why would that be - decisions in favour of citizens can be taken effectively? Depending on each's personal and syndicate interests, there will be even projects that are important for the region, while extortion and political trade will be the norm. In order to facilitate this situation and transaction, you allow a municipal councillor to join another combination as well as this was forbidden. The new law also creates other contradictions. On the first Sunday, with simple analogue, the seats are defined and on the second Sunday with the enhanced analogue, the mayor comes out. I would like to ask how the valuation and the balance sheet are to be carried out at the end of the four-year period, when other things say, and for other things are bound by the other one and these are invited to co-operate to cover the four-year period? If you wanted the real democratisation so that the mayors and the republics, as you say, are not so strong, but can be effective, you would reduce the seats of the first party a little and make the system a little more proportionate. But you want to be insolenced, chaos, transaction, minority dictatorship and a pinch of the two-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The guy's finally eating the stuff. You are not interested in real and complete reforms. Behind something real or plausible you are trying to implement party pursuits for small - party and only benefits. With this bill, unfortunately, you do not give local government any powers, no funding, nor any tools that it needs to be able to operate. Under the cloak of democratisation you bring chaos, fragmentation and inefficiency. That's why people will once again turn your back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u262	Mr Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today shows the key difference that distinguishes us with the Radical Left and with the issues of management of issues, such as local government. It is a difference of philosophy, methods and political choices. The Government also considers here, in a bill and in an area which it comes to regulate on the basis of the constitutional provision of local affairs, that this issue may be a field of conflict and a chaotic policy, along with local trade, conflict and small interests. This conflictual interpretation does not help, Mr Minister, nor the local government, nor the citizens of local communities, who are perpetuating on each side and will also be working further with what you today, as a political choice and legislative initiative, are bringing. Mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, equilibriumists, will be elected, trying to suit the processors and create a situation in which you create a lasting minefield. And that's what you need to understand. I come to a number of issues relating to specific topics on the articles and I would ask your colleagues to pay attention to me like you, Minister. There is a contradiction between Article 2. In particular, the first paragraph refers to a number of criteria for categorisation of municipalities, such as population, geomorphology, the kind of economic activity and others. But in the next paragraphs it seems that the only criterion for the categorisation of municipalities is population. Secondly, there is another contradiction between the contents of Articles 25 and 35. In particular, Article 25 shall permit cross-crossing of candidate municipal councillors and outside the electoral district concerned. However, Article 35 states that regular municipal councillors are elected in turn by those who received most of the cross-references in their constituency and not by the municipality as a whole. Thirdly, Article 68 is the epitome of the alternative approach that you have in this legislation. In particular, the article lacks the provision for the term of office of the Vice-Presidents. Nor does it exist for their replacement, as was the case in paragraph 5 of Article 59 of the 'CALL'. The mayor is also given the opportunity to nominate the mayors with the simple assent of his own party. The combination of these two provisions is the basis for political transactions. I shall conclude with the question of our proposal for the vote on the motion for a resolution. We are not giving the right to vote on the motions for resolutions. This right, as it has been predicted, is that, if they are registered on the electoral lists of their homeland, they exercise rights whenever they are in our home country. We give them the opportunity, we make it easier. And that's what we suggest you do. There is nowhere in the world foreigner living in another country from his home country who does not have the right to vote when general national elections are proclaimed. You have to understand. You need to get away from the ideological framework that you are facing this issue. You also need to get away from what you are telling us. You must stop saying, 'Why didn't you?' One of the reasons why I can tell you - there are many reasons why we did not do so - is that we were a tripartite government, which did not have unanimity, a positive approach on this issue. Is that where we're staying? This is a lymph that you take out and say: 'Why did you not do it'. One of the reasons - if you will - politically, that we are opposition may also be. What are you going to do? How will you approach this issue, which is a specific and very simple option? Consulate will be the places of the election, diplomatic officials will be the judges. It's very simple and I think you should do it. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill is now the swan of an outgoing government, a government that at the end of its term of office, this destructive term for the place, throws down - shine bombs like the present bills. Our people will judge us and judge us soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u264	Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very disappointing day for the country. And we see the results of the government's tragic choices on national issues. Skopje launched pre-accession processes in NATO, while Commissioner Johannes Khan spoke of negotiations with Albania that will bring about a border change. In fact, where does the European Commissioner have this right to talk about a change of borders? And anyway, what exactly do they negotiate with Mr. Kotzia? And on top you have the courage to blame those who participate in the rally for Macedonia. Shame on you! [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] But your inability is also seen in today's bill. Do you have three years of dialogue, Minister, with HSPE and CEDEFOP to determine what? The responsibilities of the Ministry, the district and the municipality? Wasn't it you, Minister, who, as a opposition to self-government, talked about more resources? Did you give what you owe? The regions have received 1.8 billion. Not only did you not give it, Minister, but you also brought a law that the OTA money is transferred to the Bank of Greece on a special account. And that's not what's come to you either. You are now coming with "KLITHENI" and you are taking the projects from the regions to give them to the Ministry of Culture to do projects. How much lie, anyway? How much longer? Wasn't it you, Minister, who, as a opposition, asked for more staff to the municipalities? And now? Wasn't it you, Minister, who would abolish decentralized government? Your Secretary-General, Mr. Pulakis, was a candidate for regional authority in Thessaly vis-à-vis Mr. Agathos. The percentage he took, I don't mention it. One hand's fingers are counted. Wouldn't you abolish decentralized self-government? Why? And now not only do you not abolish it, but you come and add a special partner and a special consultant. To do what, really? Do what? Choose both sides and best friends in their recruitment to decentralized? What can I say? Lies! Lies! Lies! And the evil you know what it is? That you're used to it now, and you don't understand that you're lying. You think you're telling the truth. This bill neither defines nor brings about reforms. If you wanted the support and effectiveness of the TDs, you could well take into account the positions of the CEDEFOP and the EIA, which you have ignored. You're talking about a simple analogue. Yes, sir. Then why keep fifty plus one and you want a second round? What's that just proportional? From the first round. Simple proportionally, counsellors are elected, others co-operate and take out municipal administration. I'll tell you why you want the second Sunday. For the transaction, because you're representatives of the oligarchy, because you're representatives of the oligarchs and you're trying to enforce yourself with panics. Whatever you can't control, you make it a mess. You are supposed, Minister, that today in the bill you are integrating OTAs second degree into the European Charter of Local Autonomousity. That's right, isn't it? Where's autonomy? Where are the institutional areas? What of all this European Charter says, do you vote today with 'Classhen', Minister? What exactly? Nothing at all. You're talking about partnerships. Are you serious? What partnerships? Here we have intensified and emerging theme of altering the will of the electorate. The mayor and the district manager who will be elected in the second round and who will come from the minority party in the first round, how will he cooperate with the councils? I made Vice Mayor in Larissa four years and another four years of municipal councillor. Are these things going on? Full insolence. There's gonna be a whole mess. And to fill this gap, you have predicted and prejudge the logic of transactions by sharing positions, such as anti-government and counter-governors from other groups, as well as positions in legal persons under political support. That is why you have also anticipated mobility between the factions. What mobility? You voted in the public sector and we can still see it. You are also bringing in arrangements for technical programmes. You say that the technical programme will be voted on by project rather than by project as a whole. Simple question: In Thessaly, Kostas the Agorastos, our Provincial Governor, has about two thousand works in four years. Will he make two thousand votes? And what will happen at the level of the municipalities and local communities, if there is independence and dealings with the posts? 'The pleasure of the contractor', said our rapporteur, Mr Vorides. That's exactly what he said. The pleasure of the contractor! Now Mr. Spirtzis is next to you, who is responsible for contractors. The citizen will pay your thoughts again. And another issue that is extremely serious. Why are you preparing all these changes with the regional services of the Ministry of Interior for more effective citizenship? Is there such a big need? So many of these requests, or are you preparing anything else, so people can vote? I say now with my mind. I'm thinking about it all by myself. If you want new voters and believe in democracy, give Greeks the right to vote abroad. Are you so afraid of them? Minister, can you enter a bill in plenary today, provide for elections - you anticipate them - in October 2019 and seventeen Members of your resignation - who we all know are belonging - to change your election date and you can do so? That's unprecedented.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u266	Mr. Kelles, if you want to finish it slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u267	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is clear that you are going for three-fold elections, for self-government, for European elections and for parliamentary elections. I don't know, obviously you with your powerful communication staff have decided that it is best to crush four times the same day than to crush four different days. Maybe you're right. In any case, whatever machinery you do, whatever tricks you devise, you must realize that your people now understand. Those tricks are old. And, of course, it is the only positive of your three-year rule to this day. At the moment there is a silent majority in Greek society, which will be expressed in the poll, and no minority will be imposed on it. Your days are counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. You have brought the draft 'CLISTINS' law, which we are debating today, on the pretext that it solves some problems. Of course, the majority of mayors and municipal councils across Greece disagree. But I won't look at it in general and vaguely. I'll try a little more targeted to say on a specific case, about a county divided into two municipalities, two superstitions, Prefecture Kilkis. Prefecture Kilkis, in the 2011 census, had fifty thousand inhabitants, and these brilliant ones who joined the municipalities, divided him into only two. In fact, they built two superstitions with huge problems, combining huge municipalities, which existed before, such as Crusia, Piccolim, French and made the Municipality of Kilkis, Guenissa, Apoupoli and did the Municipality of Paionia, while there should be at least four or five to be operational. They joined huge municipalities, which were mountainous, with municipalities which were semi-urban, which were well economical with municipalities that had deficits. There is a municipality, the Municipality of Kilkis, which starts from the border of Thessaloniki - Pellas almost and reaches the border of Bulgaria and Serres. The other municipality, the municipality of Paionia, is separated from a river, the Axios, which, when there is a patrol and an incident occurs on the opposite bank, has to do forty kilometers to make the round, so as not to put on the difficulties that exist from the other services. Both mayors - and Gundenoudis of Paionia and Sismanides of Kilkis - have raised these problems with residents for the maintenance of national networks, for roads in mountain villages. I see no provision within the plan that you have brought today to solve these problems, so I am almost certain that there is no plan to solve problems in other municipalities and in other prefectures that have similar problems. And there comes PASOK today and his representative speaks of the coming of extremist nationalists and that it is the fault of such drafts of law, like some picturesque preachers, pastors, who we see in America saying that the world is coming. And I don't get five minutes to talk about the cut out of the PASOK People's Base, which excavated Tsohatzopoulos, Tsukatos, Papantoniou, ENPIA, PSI, the "money is". SYRIZA became the same neoliberal as the New Democracy. He kept HNVIA, the tax raid, voted for new memos, much more difficult than the ones passed by New Democracy and PASOK. And, of course, at the eve of this turn of yours and your damned shoe, anyway, is the enlargement of the European Union and NATO, which you are trying to achieve with the Skopje Ambassadors' agreement. The New Democracy, of course, only has to denounce that you are using this bill as a tool for local self-government and you are serving small and medium-sized interests. It also says that you are using as a tool and justice. He dares, that is, the New Democracy, which set up a whole project to put the Members of the Golden Dawn in prison, who voted for them more than half a million Greeks, to speak of manipulation of justice. This, of course, does not mean that there are no attempts by the current government. While the New Democracy has been ruling for years - and by PASOK alone - it did not break up the municipalities, which are supposedly wanting, nor dared to vote on the homosexuals, who are supposedly calling for them today. Of course, you've been accustomed to this lately on the issue of the name of Skopje. You are disturbed by the tradition of our Macedonian name in Skopje. But basically, you're pleased, because this bomb exploded in SYRIZA's hands and didn't run into your hands. It bothers you, it's supposed to be, "North Macedonia," but it wouldn't spoil you "North Macedonia". "North Macedonians" bothers you, but it wouldn't bother you "Northmades", as composite. As regards the votes of the Greeks abroad, we have tabled a proposal - I do not have time to refer to it, I hope the next speaker - on 14-7-2016, on the subject of 'Right to elect the Greeks and exercise of the right to vote by Greek residents abroad and seafarers'. You, as a government now, say that there must be a committee and judge who will vote, who can vote and who will count. I propose, therefore, that you do not delay - on the basis of the position of Mr Paradise, who said that he must have the result of his vote, until you solve all the above, take the decision and give immediate right to vote to the Greeks of foreigners who have recently left, the years of the memorandum, who were, anyway, able to vote. And there's no need for any other procedure. So those who left Greece who were persecuted by the Memorandums, the Memorandums of the New Democracy, the Memorandums of PASOK, the two Memorandums brought by SYRIZA, LAOS, DIMAR and the rest of the "Memorandum Arc", voting can change something and change their decision to leave abroad and return. So, they are among those who Mr. Paradulos said that when they vote, they should suffer the consequences. So give the right to express with their vote all these young people who have left Greece persecuted by you and you will see that whenever the elections are held, whether they are local government or European elections, how the Golden Dawn will be supported from the world and why. Do you know why? Closing down, I'll tell you. Because the Golden Dawn is nothing more than the expression of the Greeks' simple patriotic thinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor for five minutes. Immediately after Mrs. Bakoyannis and Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, after three and a half years and following many announcements, brings the bill on self-government to a vote, which unfortunately does not solve the problems of the municipalities and regions. On the contrary, it adds problems and leads them to insolence. It's obvious you don't want self-government to do its job. You have not heard the proposals made by the CEDEFOP and EICs. In other words, you have not listened to the people who know their self-government and their problems better than anyone. You are only interested in how you will have the same role in self-government, use and play with the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill brought by the government for vote has three basic elements. I'd say he's got three wicked and hysterical directions. The first is the so-called simple and inappropriate analogous. Sounds good, as good as the populism accompanying it. Because, you know what's gonna happen the way you planned it. It is simply municipalities and regions that cannot be governed. This, of course, Minister, you don't care. You do not want a mayor, with his combination, to implement the programme for which he is being voted on. What you have in mind is the imposition of a minority. Because in an election campaign, which will be decided on the second Sunday, the seats of the municipal council will be distributed from Sunday to Sunday, and the mayor's election will result from the result of the second Sunday. For example, a candidate mayor gets 25% in the first round and wins seven municipal councillors and his opponent gets 49% and gets 15 municipal councillors. If he with 25% succeeds and overturns the rate of the first Sunday and eventually becomes mayor on the second Sunday, he will end up having seven municipal councillors and the major opposition will have fifteen advisors. How, Minister, can this municipality be governed? So don't tell us that this will create a spirit of cooperation between the factions. What you're doing is drive local societies to the micro-policy transaction, give and take. Don't you understand that? Why, what else can serve the fact that according to this bill an elected municipal councillor with a combination may, if he wishes, go away and join another combination? Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a central political scene, self-government. It's everyday. It's the closest thing to the citizen, and that's why it has to work out of small interests and suspicions of trade under the table. But you do not want self-government governance. You want to keep democratic function in all ways in order to do yours. Not even a water pipeline can be built by the municipalities. To avoid talking about the issue of the disposal of waste and other important local issues of each society. Let's go to second. You're reducing the term from five to four years. Why? You have no good reason. Years later, municipal and regional elections were disconnected by parliamentarians. Each municipality was given the right to complete its programme in a reasonable time. The opportunity was given to reduce huge electoral costs. Do you not know that Europe is a Europe of the regions? Do you not know that European programmes are being done and given in the light of the requirements and problems of the regions? What bothers you is that European programmes are engraved and executed by self-government, which you do not control. And that's what you're trying to control. Thirdly, you continue the micro-political games with the time of the next elections to take place in self-government. In the bill to date, you anticipate that it will take place in October 2019, because you believe that you will succeed in completing your term of office and that the national elections will be held together. And because at the last minute you have understood that you are legally exposed to the extension of the term of self-government beyond the five-year period and because Mr Tsipras seems to have rethinked it, you have put sixteen Members to table a late vote on the elections next May, along with the European elections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. As you do, you are planning European elections in May, the first and second degrees of self-government - if it comes out, of course - and you are trying to blur the crisis of the Greek people. As much as you are trying, however, to know that the Greek people's judgment will be invincible to you. Ladies and gentlemen, self-government has a lot of problems, it has a shortage of resources, it has a lack of staff, it is dependent on the state, it is suffering from bureaucracy that is confusing responsibilities, it is bound by financial control. The only problem that has not been solved so far was governance, which is why it has in many cases been able to give immediate solutions to the problems of the daily lives of citizens. That's why the citizens said "the grievances to the mayor", because they felt the municipal authority closer to them. Now, instead of improving the institution, you're coming to irritate him and put him in a definitive tombstone. You don't believe in self-government or decentralisation. You believe in the central state, which you are attempting to control partisanally. So with your proposal, of mere analogy, you destroy local government and you are trying to strengthen central power, the one you want to keep, but you will soon lose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I see solitude in SYRIZA's headquarters. I don't see much enthusiasm for your bill. Maybe it's the ball, too, but I'm rather disappointed to see SYRIZA's colleagues. And it's no accident, Minister. You bring a bill that you called it a bill of simple analogy. You bring a bill and you pride yourself in that you left-wing people of dialogue and you listen to society, institutions, stakeholders. You bring a bill in which the society of stakeholders and people who know from local government is all across the street. But everyone! There are no exceptions to a few mayors who are bound to SYRIZA. And the question is why they are all opposed, Minister. You haven't made Mayor. So let me, in the capacity of the former mayor of Athens, tell you a few things about the operation of a municipality. A mayor and a municipality are judged by his effectiveness, how effective he is in what citizens expect of him. To be an effective mayor - and a government, but for the government I am not talking about, it is too late for tears, this government ends, but for the mayors who will come - it is very important that they be able to command, be able to be effective. Because if these mayors tomorrow morning cannot make any decisions, then they are no longer effective, the municipality is in chaos and things are going from evil to worse. That's exactly what's gonna happen. Instead of a simple analogue bill, you bring a simple transaction and a continuous transaction bill. Because it is impossible, ladies and gentlemen, to make a decision without a transaction. You call that cooperation. I'm telling you, which I had about three quarters of the decisions for three years of the Municipality of Athens, but I had the majority, and I had the opportunity to make decisions ahead of the Athens Olympics so that the work could be done in Athens, that what you are doing today in a municipality like Athens, which is what I know, means that municipal councillors who will be seated, who will be institutions of interest, will be able to paralyse the operation of the Municipality of Athens. And I'm telling you frankly, I'm not telling you with any opposition, that I was very sad when you brought this, because it shows two things. It shows a lack of democratic sensitivity, but it also shows a logic that says 'after me chaos'. It is nice to have someone imitate Louis XIV, but in any case, this logic that you support today is not entitled to have when you bring municipal elections, which for five years or four years - what you say in your bill - the institution that is closer to the citizens will make it completely powerless. This right, in my opinion, you do not have it. And you're doing too badly by bringing that logic into local self-government. Because, in the end, interests are going to run the risk of self-government. Mr Vorides told you with the contractors, but a mayor in order to be truly independent must rely on the majority of the ministers, otherwise he becomes a body of interests and the small and medium-sized and large interests are always there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. There is always a point to you and this decision on the functioning of self-government will remain. I hope that the New Democracy government will be able to change the law in time before the municipal elections. I come to the question of the vote on the motions for resolutions. Minister, the excuses which have been heard here, let me tell you that they are marginal jokes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u274	Your excuses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u275	Your excuses. We brought a bill twice. You could, if you had an elementary democratic sensitivity, take it, have your technical advisers study it and tell us what you wish from this bill to change and what you want to remain and what you want to see the House, anyway you need our vote and you know it, to vote for a bill and to give the people who are watching us from abroad, to vote. I heard the amazement that he claimed, says, Mr Paradoxopoulos - I hope that the colleague did not say so well - that the vote should work where he is. So all heterogeneous people, who vote in Athens for Evrytania, must no longer have the right to vote? Is that Mr. Friday's logic? Are these serious things, ladies and gentlemen? We're a country, of which ten million people are out. We are a country that we are talking about today has people with electoral rights abroad who, if they wanted - and had the economic potential - could turn around, they could vote in Greece. What is the problem, which all the countries, even Mr Erdogan, have solved, and they vote three million Turks for the Turkish elections and cannot Greece bring a bill? The reality is you're doing everything you can to leave behind. You do not want to solve any problems, you want to undermine and mortgage tomorrow as much as you can, but let me, Minister, Paul Bakoyannis said that there are no dead ends in the Republic. The elections will one way or another. But, four polls you want to set up, but three, but two, but a hundred two, the Greek people will speak and you will be on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u276	Thank you, Mrs Bakoyannis. Mr. Maniotis from the Democratic Association has the floor for five minutes. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Karanastassis and Mr. Yoyakas will speak. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, we are again spectators of a malicious theatre, which is played in two scenes. One scene is in Brussels. Tonight, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence have assigned Macedonian language and Macedonian nationality and will give the invitation to join NATO in opening up new wounds without regreting the closure of any of them. At the same time, we have seen no response from the government to this incomprehensible said by the Enlargement Commissioner, Mr Han, that Greece in the agreement with Albania is going to have border changes. Immediately, the Government is required to ask the Commissioner to explain what he means with this unacceptable expression. The second scene is here, a sad juncture. You know, Minister, we belong to the democratic party, and we are proud that the PASOK has brought about the great reform of the "KARIKRATI" and brought about the great reform of the elected prefecture and we would expect from a party, yours, SYRIZA, which is supposed to have a perception of progressive, to bring improvements to what we have done. On the contrary, against this - and I have listened very carefully to the Minister and his colleagues - all I hear from a bill of 255 articles is that you will change the electoral system with which mayors and municipal councils are elected and elected. Is that the big reform? Haven't you done anything else? Unfortunately, this bill does not provide for any substantial incision and change. We are actually talking about a new bankruptcy of another institution of democracy. After the bankruptcy in which you led Greek justice, after the bankruptcy in which you led the independent authorities, you are now coming to bankruptcy and the local and regional government of the country. Minister, I will speak to you outside the text of your bill. I will talk to you about another Greece, Greece that we are planning, Greece of the regions and Greece of smart cities. And I say this because the ordinary citizen would really expect after eight years of memorialism, Greece after 20 August, coming out on the market, to be a strong Greece, which will in particular have strong and mutual societies. Enhancement and solidarity are carried out through the institutions of regional and local government. Europe is fully aware that it is deadlocked. It is the Europe of racism, nationalism, the closure of borders, the rise of the extreme right, and that is why it says that its vision is the Europe of the regions. It should be for Greece as well. Be Greece of the regions, Greece which gives responsibility for more effective interventions, "spreading" of bureaucracy, a leading role in the fields of welfare and productive reconstruction, for training and employment programmes, in fact, for Greece which makes the big leap forward. Unfortunately, you are not capable of the twelve ready-made regional planning programmes that you have received to approve. It has only been approved one, that of Crete. And I come to the second Greece, to Greece, to the smart cities, to Greece, to the other local government. What are you doing? You're changing the electoral system. Basically, you are hitting the primary cell of local democracy with irresponsible damage. You lead to paralysis and administrative chaos the nearest to the citizen in the form of the state. Instead of going to modern cities, making use of new technologies, creating new jobs, upgrading urban centres, attracting tourists for the weekend in towns, producing new wealth - and that would expect a man who deals with the common self-government to bring this bill - you are only concerned with how to control the prevailing majorities. And be careful, because this is where we will be, there will be the greenhouses to support economic interests by poor minorities in all municipalities, and there will be also the greenhouses of right-wing interventions from those who have the opportunity to do so in all municipalities, and so you will lead to captivity and mandatory opportunistic alliances in local communities. I'll finish with something that really makes me unthinkable. This self-pity of Mr Tsipras, the SYRIZA-ANEL Ministerial Council, the responsible Interior Minister and the seventeen SYRIZA colleagues, who tabled the famous amendment to change the timing of the elections. Last night in the explanatory statement we had the documentation because the European and self-government elections should not be held at the same time, and today we are calling for them to be held a week before the European elections, and this afternoon the Minister said that he would accept the amendment that the self-government elections should take place on the same day as the European elections. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one last. We are the only country in Europe, where, a few months before the self-government elections, the self-government themselves do not know, the public does not know, society does not know, when elections will be held. In three and a half years or five and a half? And this is another element of the irreparableness of the current government. We, as a Change Movement, declare that whenever local and regional elections are held, we will support the forces of social solidarity and the forces of progress that will send a message for Greece of smile and optimism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u278	Thank you. We've calculated that we're going tonight by number 58. So, good having things, by midnight at the latest, we will have completed, with a relative tolerance, from five minutes to six minutes. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I address you. What again was this rocket which was launched today by the European Commission's Committee of Regions, speaking at a conference on the agreements reached in the Balkans, when it talked about the restructuring of the Greek-Albania border? What was that again? His representative may have answered and said that under no circumstances did the Commissioner refer to border changes, but I listened to him, following the video in question, saying that if there is an agreement between Albania and Greece, because this is a restructuring of the borders, this is something very important and crucial to the citizens. As you can see, a major issue arises. And because the negotiations with Albania are taking place, and because the result of the latest negotiations by Mr Kotzias on a major national issue was that the national harmful agreement by the Presidencies was given to FYROM, the Macedonian identity and the Macedonian language, but also because the subject of the negotiations with the Albanian side is not the annexation of the North Epirus, as I heard from this step earlier, so that the change of borders would be beneficial to us, but instead, the elimination of the use of the term 'North Epirus' on the Greek side, which is a request from the Albanian side, because this - and this is the funny one - is the blemish on the part of the Greek side, for all that we are concerned about and with us to be concerned about by the Greek people. So we ask the government, which has not so far been put on this issue, to put it in place and, if anything, to tell us whether or not it has asked the European Commissioner for an explanation of this word slip or I do not know how else to describe it. However, if the official Greek Government does not ask for explanations, I assume that there will be a ambiguity about the correctness of its words. So do it. I come to the 'KLITHENIS' bill - reform of the institutional framework of local government, deepening of democracy - the basis and platform for which we once listened - and other euphoria. But he gave a mountain, and gave a muscle. We expected that after three and a half years of preparation on your part and extensive dialogue with the relevant bodies, your reform proposal for local government would have to do with the real importance. In other words, issues such as the allocation of resources to local authorities or the question of the precise definition of the powers of local government, particularly in terms of the problematic overlapping of responsibilities, but we were disappointed with us and the local authorities who have been discussing with you for so long, the view of which you have of course been despising. Because here, perhaps, you don't have to deal with class opponents, but you certainly consider them to be institutional opponents and that's how you deal with them. What are the key elements of your proposal? Firstly, the date of the elections, and indeed the terms of 'empty', I would say, of the competent Minister, who had been practicing his clothes so long that the spirit of the self-government elections must not be confused in the spirit of other elections, such as the European elections or the national elections, but this was obviously overturned in terms of a political artifact and even cheap, if I take into account the amendment tabled twice, and the second, the establishment of a proportional system on the first Sunday for the election of members of a municipal council. The need for municipalities, however, to have strong administration to make decisions and produce work for the benefit of citizens, namely the issue of governance, is not of interest to you. So, in the name of the depth of democracy in local government, you institutionalize the local micropolitical dalave. You are strengthening, I fear, the transaction under the table and rather, instead of more understanding, you eventually contribute to producing even more in some instances of corruption. Because any institution you cannot control, try with all your powers to weaken, deceive and ultimately undermine. That's your logic. This, I'm afraid, will be the real result of your reform work. Because with elected mayors' ballasts at the disposal of minority groups, which are suitable for transactions, perhaps in terms of extortion, vulnerable and not strong in the face of all kinds of local interests, mayors who are finally elected but unable, in fact, to decide and produce work for the benefit of the people, will do so. Finally, I would like to say something about the vote of the Greeks abroad. Look, Article 51 of the Constitution establishes the right to vote on voters who are outside the territorial boundaries. That is the exact wording in our Constitution. There's still the way, the procedure, that is, something that's regulated by law. The New Democracy has already raised the issue on the political agenda since the beginning of 2009 in Kostas Karamanlis. The military opposition, which was the PASOK of George Papandreou, had refused to vote in favour of this proposal by two Members. Over the last two years we have tabled a proposal for a law on this subject and refused to discuss it in the House - not you, Minister, but the Bureau. Today, we are coming back with a concrete and honest proposal. Come in five months to legislate on Greeks abroad along with the fragmentation of the large electoral districts. But you don't, because you don't want it and you don't want it because it doesn't interest you. All the rest, I'm very afraid, are pretenses in the sins of a government on a runoff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u281	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u282	What would you like, Mrs. Vaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u283	He has raised a national issue, and I would like to address myself. Because it is very sensitive for national issues to play and risk and hasten here not only the previous colleague but also others to refer to the statement made by Commissioner Han for border change and that our government is intractable, and so on, I would ask you to be a little more careful. The Commission itself has responded. The Commissioner has never talked about a change of borders. What has been said was that bilateral agreements must be resolved before possible enlargement of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u284	All right, Mr. Vakis. Don't open a dialogue right now for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u285	And this is mainly about the EEZs and, of course, nothing can be accepted if both sides do not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u286	Okay, it's clear. We do not need to analyse it any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u287	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u288	What do you want, Mr. Panayotopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u289	I would like ten seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u290	We won't open a dialogue now. You were placed by Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u291	Mr President, please, only ten seconds. Eleven seconds close the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u292	Tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u293	Firstly, this is not a risk when we hear the expression'restructuring', which means'restructuring'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u294	It's a danger!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u295	But he didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u296	But you didn't hear it. Don't be in danger!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u297	Secondly, I asked for the official position of the government, not the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u298	All right, Mr. Panayotopoulos, he represents the party as a parliamentary representative, and he can intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u299	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u300	Here, Minister, tell me. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u301	It's a serious matter, as you can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u302	It's very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u303	Look at that. On national issues, we have said that we need seriousness. You can't come here without having crossed a tip...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u304	But I saw the video, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u305	...and play his role "..." in these issues. I don't mean you personally, I mean as a party.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u306	Mr. Skourlet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u307	Other colleagues have said so. We didn't answer. There's been controversy. There's been a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You're coming here to do what? Do you think you're offering the national case by saying that the government is ready to discuss a border issue? Think very well. I mean, for God's sake! How far will this opposition blindness come? He needs some seriousness in these things. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u308	Look at the video. I said we were worried.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u309	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u310	So everything on the altar of impress? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u311	Minister, if you please withdraw the expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u312	I said I wasn't talking personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u313	I understand that, but if you want to, it would be nice to withdraw that expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u314	Remove the expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u315	Please remove the expression from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u316	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u317	If we open the dance, all the parliamentary representatives will want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u318	Mr President, as a parliamentary representative I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u319	Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u320	Because it happened - and not only did it happen to my colleague - and to me listening at 20.00 p.m. from this news release to Mr Han's statement - and whoever had this experience is really incomprehensible to be accused of lying - and from the lips of this particular Commissioner came out of what my colleague said earlier, I think we cannot be the subject of such attacks. Of course - I agree with my fellow Member - the committee has speeded up with its representative and made this clarification. But there is one question: Mr Khan is not the last wheel of a charity on what is called the 'Commission of the European Union'. When he makes statements and even expressing a particular role and a particular post, he should explain why he said. Irrespective of the fact that the matter has been closed by a committee, Mr Han is exposed to Greece, to Greece, to the Greek Government, to Civicism and we invite him to give an explanation. What more honorable? What more cleaner? What else parliamentary? What's more reasonable?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u321	It's clear, Mr. Javarra. You said your statement too. They've been recorded in the Minutes. Mr. Karastasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that such a serious issue will be answered by the government. I think that these are issues which cannot be dealt with at the moment on the basis of the news reports. I think that responsible answers will be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u323	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u324	That's what we want. But neither should the government allow that to be said. That's what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u325	I think that this draft law makes a significant reform section in the field of local and regional self-government aimed at substantially strengthening its operation, improving its effectiveness and at encouraging citizens to participate in the public at the same time. Sectors are attempted in key areas that restrict or suspend the administrative, financial and operational autonomy of the LAGs, with a view to protecting public goods and exploiting local resources for the benefit of local communities. This is an important legislative proposal that seeks to combine the strategic and class coexistence of institutional changes with productive reconstruction and the visionary objective of a fair redistribution of fair growth. The representativeness and democratic expression of the citizens are served by overthrowing the existing mono-target logic of OTA administration so far. Of course, the question arises: Was everything wrong in local government so far? Apparently not. The "Capestritis" and in particular the "Kalikratis" were efforts to reconstruct, probably in the right direction. However, they were efforts which did not go forward and quickly depleted their dynamics, because they did not rely on the necessary financial resources, and they also failed to infuse the culture of cooperation in the local communities. Thus, the assessment so far brings us before us a system of dominance-centricity, with a complex institutional framework, which is the result of which is the suffering suffered by our fellow citizens from bureaucracy, confusion of competences, and the total absence of institutions of substantial social participation. Are we happy with local government today? A simple reading of the reports by Mr Rakitzis in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, of course before the days of our own governance, will suffice to mark all the grey areas and pathogens of the existing system, and explains the fact that the citizen in the polls - for those we believe - has raised local government to corruption and mismanagement, and that is no accident. Let us not forget the direct assignments, construction studies and all that we all know and we do not want to hear and see them. Of course, we have not forgotten that local government in the 2010-2015 period, on your days, had a loss of resources of 60%. Does that defend the voices against this bill which are heard both within Parliament and outside by professional self-government who are called on to say goodbye to Alexandria, so that we can remember Kavafi, who was quoted today? Ladies and gentlemen, self-government is a vision, it is passion, it is an unselfish offer, it is effective. I think that simply proportional representation as the electoral system for the local elections is being introduced by categorisation of the municipalities. This is the way the confusing distortion that so far leads to 60% of the seats being combined with the mayor of the second Sunday, even though from the first Sunday it has taken 20%. It is a pity and I say this about the Democratic Partnership - there is no one here right now - who decided not to support simply proportionally. We need to know, however, that the people are saying that they are depriving them of the first. The constitutional provision for the supervision of TLTROs shall be exercised only in respect of the verification of legality. Funnyness isn't controlled. This is a strict question of municipal authorities' accountability to the citizens. Is there any support for the ATTs right now with the proposal? Why did you leave that? We know there are too many municipalities without technical competence. I think that the role of the EBRD, the role of the EBRD, the EBRD S.A., is to resolve issues relating to the studies and projects of these municipalities, as well as the inter-university links of the technical service. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. I think that the Grade I and Grade II are allowed to establish themselves or each other and with other public bodies, companies producing electricity and thermal installations. This is a potential for development in local communities. All this is only part of our perception of the way the TAs operate. They clearly require a substantial transfer of powers, responsibilities and resources from the centre to the region and only marks the beginning. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I shall close by saying a few words to the opposition. The New Democracy to vote for the fragmentation of the major regions remembered its glorious past and asked us to vote for the non-Greek citizens. We will vote on both of them in the process we have put in, but we will ask her to explain why since 2001, which has been the constitutional provision, she has never voted on these people. They should respond to the contribution they invested in to prove a bubble for itself, as should the property that was the flagship of its opposition policy for decades. Finally, for the Members of the Democratic Alliance, with whom I, as an old self-government, have been at the same time at the same time, I have a question. What will they say to their voters to justify the fact that they did not vote for the simple analogue, both last year in national elections and now in self-government? Of course, even though the mere proportional position of PASOK, both that and the New Democracy have always referred to its introduction to the maturation of the conditions and the people. The people, ladies and gentlemen, were and are mature. The problem has always been the mentality of the old political staff who matured so far that he has rotted and now fell out of the tree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u326	Thank you, too. Mr. Yoyakas has the floor, and then Mr. Hatzidakis immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all from the Aristotle Thesprotia, you will allow me, as did our parliamentary representative and our colleague, Mr Panagiotopoulos, to say about the unacceptable statements with many insinuations by Mr Han regarding the borders with his neighbours of Albania. I would like to stress that following the great success of the government in the scepticism and the signature of the Prespecies, Mr Kotzias said he was ready to resolve the Greek-Albanian. So it will do well, and since such huge problems have been created, stressing that it will go on vacation if the Greek-Albanian has solved it, to go on holiday to save us from such a serious issue. Ladies and gentlemen, to describe now what the government is trying to do with this bill, I will resort to a favourite phrase that the Prime Minister has borrowed: 'Very agitated, wonderful situation'. This is what the government wants to do in self-government, in the municipalities and in the regions with this bill, and not to address important and essential issues with the culmination of simply proportional to the composition of municipal and regional councils. However, with this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, the government underestimates the intelligence of citizens and many of us who have served self-government from various positions. She underestimates why? Right, as has been said, he puts the cart in front of the horse. He deals with the representation system before dealing with decentralisation and the responsibilities of the ATTs. But beyond this earlier shape, we have a oxymobile. It says that the government or better wishes, because it is a wish that the change in the electoral system will contribute to the co-operation, to the composition of views, and that it is a government which, throughout its term of office, seeks to divide, polarise and break. If that, ladies and gentlemen, is not hypocrisy, then what is it? But let him know that the world has understood its intentions. The simple analogue, as it is introduced, does not aim to a more democratic and proportional electoral system. The only thing that serves is the creation of SYRIZA's power chambers for the next day, this time on the back of local government and regional self-government, giving a role to marginal minorities and weakening the most powerful political forces. To this end, he does not hesitate to hand over municipalities and regions to government, lisperism and corruption. It does so in various ways: with the facilitation of switching or integrating the various municipal councillors and regionalists, with the possibility of defining vice-chairlors and vice-chairmen by subjugating the technical projects programmes and the global budgets, by cancelling the election programmes and their implementation, by hosting elected mayors and districts from the results of the poll on the first Sunday, by re-establishing two-speed communities without substantial powers that can act. I am very afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that this policy and management involvement will ultimately be anti-developing and it is a involvement that will carry yet another improper weight, a bureaucratic and time-consuming system of Sufficient OTA control by the central administration and with the Ministry to decide how to exercise the various responsibilities of OTAs, but also how to implement the institutional framework that concerns them. However, before that, ladies and gentlemen, other things had to have been done, such as the Interministerial Committees on Responsibilities and Decentralisation, or even a comprehensive plan that would put all the public administration, the relationship and the role of central government with local and regional government. That's not what's happened. It does not have a proposal for the autonomy of Ottas, functional and economic, nor for the clearing of roles and responsibilities, nor for how decentralisation will proceed, with proper supervision and guidance from the central government. Instead of reform, it's dismantled. Instead of looking at the result, you're looking at the process. Instead of decentralisation, you choose concentration and custody instead of autonomy. You don't care about politics, just micro-policy. This is also apparent from the amendment tabled by SYRIZA Members to hold the next municipal elections along with the European elections in May 2019. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We have not been convinced by the explanations made by the Minister who accepted it, because this amendment is contrary to the basic rationale of switching the self-government elections to October - what is at least mentioned in the explanatory memorandum - which is to be disconnected from the European elections and, of course, the conduct of the five months earlier does not help to move smoothly to the new electoral system, as colleagues claim. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened. Has the government's electoral planning changed to only five and some people play the role of the hare, or is there, as in most of them, only an improvisation of the moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u328	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u329	Either way, we will not play the game of your political survival at the expense of local societies. We won't throw water on the mill of political instability you want to sink the country. That is why we are voting against your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Mr Hatzidakis, you have the floor for five minutes and immediately after Mrs Arabadzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u331	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk of the simple proportionalness to the municipalities and the chaos it will cause to deal with the issues of everyday life. It is an observation that I fully agree with. It is, moreover, an observation from the CEDEFOP, but also several mayors from the SYRIZA who have pointed this out in their own way. There have also been incidental reports on both Albania and the newly emerging negotiating success of the government and on the issue of Skopje, as Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos are in NATO, with the Minister of Defence disapprove of SYRIZA's policy, but to support it in the meantime, simply proclaiming that sometime in the future he will typically manifest this disagreement. Anyway, I don't want to stand on this. I would like to stand - because it is the time - in the pleasant note of the government policy of recent days, last week, in the pleasant surprises of the government. I have a remembrance here. I'm starting with pensions. Last week on the occasion of Mr Moscovisi's visit here, SYRIZA began accusing us of wanting to cut pensions, forgetting two details. One detail was that they cut them off themselves. The second detail is that we voted against it. We're going further. We have the Erdogan oath. Mrs. Bakoyannis was invited. He decided to attend for the reasons explained by her and SYRIZA conquered her. And while SYRIZA won it, three days later, Mr. Tsipras meets with a Mr. Erdogan in Brussels, NATO.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u332	Is the same as the oath?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I know - you will correct me later - Erdogan, who was in Ankara, is the same as Erdogan who was in NATO, unless your surprise was another person and then you will explain them to us. I smiled and I wouldn't want you to deprive us of the smile. Don't deprive us of that smile! Then we move on to BSE. At the end of May, the Prime Minister went to BSE, spoke to him at a celebrity, even congratulated the President of BSE, then "AGEAN" was a pleasure, there were government leaks: "Behold, our policy is accepted by industrialists as well." Until "some fly stinged" the Prime Minister. He has made some statements by the President of BSE on pensions - with which we do not agree - and the people who took you back suddenly became enemies of the country. You are the same ones who have been saying this in late May and these new days. I also come to the bill, because there are similar pleasant surprises here too. The first has to do with the second Athens. You rejected the proposal that we tabled to you in the electoral law of Kourublis in the summer of 2016 for the partition of 2nd Athens. We have proposed and rejected it and then you come back and bring it back, thinking that you will put us in a difficult position. Who is this, ladies and gentlemen, in a difficult position? The one who suggests it, who adopts it and has a firm position, or who comes back and suggests it late and opportunistic, thinking that it will get micro-party benefits? You will see, because people understand very well, that you will also get lost on this subject. I'm going further. Let's go to the vote on the motions for resolutions. The Prime Minister has repeatedly talked to us about Brain Drain and how much it hurts and how much those people want to return, but tens of thousands continue to leave on his day. And we say something very simple: to these people, if anything, give them the right to vote if they have an election book. "No, no, it's terriblely difficult." They even do so in African countries. But here, Mr Skourletis and the Ministry of Interior will study it for five months and we will see whether we can get to the African countries and achieve this difficult project, which we have nevertheless managed to achieve in the European elections! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Then we have the other pleasant note. The Minister, Mr Skourletis, had been very closely associated with this bill for a long time with a key in the same section: the decoupling of the date of the European elections from the date of the municipal elections. I have heard him on both television and Parliament on several occasions point it out. And he has every right to point it out. As is the case with Erdogan, which, in my view, is both in Ankara and NATO, in my opinion again humblely, Mr Skourletis, who said he would disconnect the date, with Mr Skourletis, who accepts the reunification of the date of the European elections with the municipal elections, is the same man. Am I wrong, Mr. Skourlet? I'm cutting you for the same man! But you vote for both black and white, all their opposite. That's your policy. That is why I am telling you that I am actually talking about the pleasant note of your policy! Many New Democracy colleagues are talking about SYRIZA's lies, SYRIZA's communications tricks, etc. I think you've been through a higher bullet. I won't make any descriptions. I won't describe what that thing you're doing. I will only say one word: thank you for your smile!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. Ladies and gentlemen, if we can't make it to seven minutes. That is why we went to five minutes, so that we could complete the whole process in reasonable time. Here, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said many times from here that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is capable of doing everything in its power. But what has happened in this Chamber over the last few hours is beyond any limits of cynicism and political treachery. Even the late Minister of the Interior, Mr. Skourletis, had a clear discomfort and difficulty in accepting the amendment of his sixteen colleagues who cynically worked on the self-government elections and ridiculed his law, subjecting the local government to the tiny and humble plans of SYRIZA. Even you, Minister, have made it difficult for you to implement the designs of Maximos underground. Imagine what state of political hostage you are. Because it is really political up until yesterday to argue about why municipal elections must be held in October and not coincide with other elections and today to cancel your words so humiliatingly. You were submitted to the designs of Maximo's basements. For of course we cannot believe that your sixteen Members of this House have operated on their own initiative. They sounded like political puppets of the orchestra all this, which is, of course, Alexis Tsipras. But this choice of you, the Prime Minister's choice to exploit and use municipal and regional elections, demonstrates the panic that he has paid you and admits indirectly that you admit the political defeat that you see coming with strength and noise in the next national election. Movement of the time of the self-government elections and the choice of the triple or quadrant in May 2019 is because you know well that whenever the parliamentary elections take place you will lose them. So try to save everything you can, to apply the simple analogy that you now legislate with "CLISTEN", just once. So you recognize that if the self-government elections were to take place on time, that is, in October 2019, your "CLISTHENS" legislation would have gone for a walk. So you are attempting to create an absolute political alalum with three or four polls, with different election campaigns all together on the same day, in order to create a political turbulence, to blur the messages of the elections, to confuse the citizens and of course also in the field of local government, the ultimate chaos against the citizens, to the detriment of the citizens, who of course do not sweat your ears. Whatever you do, however, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, you will not prevent your political disappearance, which is close. None of the simple analogues will save you. It will, however, destroy the municipalities, because 90% of the self-government tells you with all the tons that this legislation dissolves self-government, it is paralytic, it will not work. But you are not listening to anyone, drifting away from the hallucinations of your majesty, that you are, supposedly, setting up democracy again in local self-government, But here again, you are playing games because you are maintaining the election of the mayors directly from the people and in two rounds and by an absolute majority and applying the simple proportionality to municipal and regional consultants. Where does that lead? But, of course, it leads to the absolute deadlock, the lack of decision-making and administration, and - worse still - to the absolute conciliation, to personality, to para-state, to party. You are the lawmakers of absolute government in local government, corruption and behind-the-scenes law that you are provoking. Because it is not possible for a consultant who is independent, on the basis of your provisions, to register with another municipality at the same time. In this way you strengthen, cultivate the bazaar, lisverise, customer logic. But it is not just your idealism, it is mainly your political hindrance. You know that in local government your presence is weak and you are trying by these methods to put a leg on, blackmail the mayors and district managers the few advisors you choose, threatening them to inactivate the operation of the municipalities if they don't make the political carpets. So, whatever you don't control, you're trying to dismantle it. The New Democracy very clearly says that "KLITHENIS" is a dissolution bill, which goes far behind the idea of self-government. We are committed to being one of the bills that we will abolish as soon as New Democracy becomes a government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. But you chose this bill to do something else. You are bringing an amendment to the partition of the second district of Athens, which is a permanent position of the New Democracy and our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis, refusing to accept, deliberately, that we have combined its vote with the right to vote of the Greeks abroad. We say to you as a New Democracy: now bring the right to vote to the Greeks abroad to legislate together this important measure, to restore an injustice against thousands of our fellow citizens who left the years of the crisis and cannot spend an unbearable amount to come and vote at home. Prove that you have the will and that you do not consider the Greeks of the second category. The New Democracy has submitted since 2017 the proposal for a law on voting to Greeks abroad. Take it, study it and bring the amendment up to tomorrow, so that we can vote on it. All other things are prophecies in the sins of a pitiful government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Mr Kamatos has the floor, and then Mr Koumoutaskos immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a challenge for me, after three continuing talks of representatives of the New Democracy themselves and even though they hear the arguments, they insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u338	You say differently?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u339	It's a challenge, Mr. Javarra. I'd like to talk, I had a lot to say, but I have more important things. You've been answered. You hear them, you hear them all the time, you'll be disappointed again. What are the most important? Because it is a little time and we really need to talk about the bill, because it is very serious not only for the simple analogue, which is an incision, but also for citizenship and for the waste, I want to stay on a subject, for the categorisation of the municipalities, namely, for the categorisation of the islands. Minister, I address you because, while what you are doing is very right and it is a necessary tool to categorise the municipalities, so that we can implement policies, on the subject of categorisation of the islands you are wrong. It is too - too weak to categorize this. And I'm becoming more specific. While the continental municipalities have fewer than ten thousand, medium-sized municipalities of ten to twenty-five thousand, large municipalities of over twenty-five thousand, and these include the capital cities, in the islands: the small islands under three and a half thousand and the middle and large over three and a half thousand, that is, we smack all the islands over three and a half thousand. Where we should have more care and see more and bend more on the categorisation of the islands, which have greater needs, we smack them and we categorize the continental municipalities. You're gonna tell me: What happened? Since they can make decisions, internally categorised or "in the distribution of resources, the specificities of the islands are taken into account", so says an article, etc. Yes, but in paragraph 2 of Article 2, to which the categorisation refers, it says that this categorisation is taken into account, firstly, for the responsibilities of primary authorities, for the allocation of resources, of course, for programmes, for local authorities. And I ask you, how is it possible to care about the islands and to have, at the county level, continental municipalities - who do well, capital cities are, but have the services at their side or very close - and not to take care of island municipalities and islands, which are larger than the capital cities? It has islands, Minister, which are larger than fifteen capital cities, and we put them together with the islands of three and a half thousand inhabitants. So when each department comes to plan, what will it do? Shouldn't he take this categorization into account? Isn't that why we're getting out of here? So what's he gonna say? County Hospitals, where are we going? We do in Florina, we do in Lefkada, which is the capital city of the prefecture, which has twenty-three thousand inhabitants and in islands with over forty thousand inhabitants, we have no hospital at the county level. But you know what that means? Do you know how much it is to go to a dentist? Some hours. On the island you know he has to do two and three days to go to a dentist? How long does it take for a pregnant woman to be tested or given birth in the mainland? Do you know that on the islands it takes three or four days again, even though the weather is good? How many hours do you want in the mainland to go do blood tests? You know it takes days on the island to do this? How, then, will the hospitals be planned? How will administrative services be planned? They're planning the Ministries of Offices. The tax office will have offices in these places, continental prefectures, etc. And they're tearing down the offices on the islands. But you're asking how much the other guy wants to go to serve from a small island to the largest one, to the nearest? The categorisation of the islands is a very, very serious case. We can't get through it like that. I understand that there was no deepening that had to be done. We in the Isle of Insular Members have had this request for two years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, I am trying to finish. Two years we have here the request for categorisation of the islands. I understand that maybe this bill is not ready to go through it. But two things can be done. Firstly, since there are six categories of municipalities, let us make them seven to enter, as is the case in the mainland, and the category of the middle islands with ten to twenty-five thousand inhabitants and twenty-five thousand and over are the large islands. And a second. There were provinces in the island regions. Today it corresponds to the Regional Units. KALIKRATS in his name that the municipalities were unified, abolished them. Here again, a matter that they did not take into account islands. Because, he says, the municipalities were unified, the Regional Units are useless, no leaders need, no provincial councils on the islands, etc. No, I don't. Because there is a Regional Unit that has eight inhabited islands and municipalities. Let me tell you, for example, the Kalymnos that has Astypalea, Patmos, Leros, Leipzig, Agathonisi and so many other islands that fall within these cities around here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u340	Mr. Comrade, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u341	Is it so hard to put a district commander in these district units that correspond to former provinces? We're not all going to. We'll put on the ones that's over twenty-five thousand people. Finally, Minister, I wanted to tell you this. I repeat, in this bill you may not make progress on the extent to which you should, but I expect you not to take into account just what your advisers tell you. Take the case on you - I know you understand, it's a political matter -,
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u342	Come on, Mr. Comrade, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u343	...as the Prime Minister took over the issue of VAT on islands that some did not believe, as took the transport equivalent that some did not believe and took the islands that did not believe it two years ago, in December 2016, he announced island policy. I suggest your advisers see the Prime Minister's announcement. I propose to see how many of the Prefectures of Cyclades and Dodecanese - I present them and finish them, Mr President - how many are the prefectures of the other islands that are just one island and one next, while the Dodecanese and the Cyclades have forty-eight islands and more than thirty municipalities, and how they take into account the development programmes, which provide for a regional centre, a prefecture centre, an over-local centre and a local centre?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u344	Mr. Comrade, testify and don't tell them in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u345	This is the way studies are carried out, and so we do the categorisations and not just the criterion of over three and a half thousand people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u346	The Minister wants the floor for an amendment, and then Mr Kumoucasos will speak immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u347	Mr President, I take the floor to support the amendment with a general number of 1691 and a special 80. These are emergency aids given to citizens affected by the natural disasters, what is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. We are promoting that these exceptional allowances will not be confiscated, so the irresponsibility is institutionalised, they will not be offset by funds or taxes. You understand that some people who have been hurt, who have lost their homes at the same time, when they would see this money, these extraordinary allowances in their accounts, would be offset by other debts. It is something that has been done in other cases, but it was necessary to complement what the Ministry of Interior gives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kumoucasakos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u349	I will be as soon as possible, Mr President. Everything has been said or almost everything. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with one saying: a great turbulence, a wonderful situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u350	That has been said many times today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u351	Mao said so and Tsipras has embraced it and has become your compass not only as Opposition, but also as government. It describes the way and the tone of your policy of elevation. Today he describes your last agony attempt to survive as a government. We see that in front of us. A plan is unfolding that confirms it. This is a redemption operation for the institutional role of the Government. That's the big picture. It is your last attempt to survive in chaos and through the chaos it will create. For once, it proves your irresponsibility and opportunism. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, local government is the first point of civil contact with politics. It is, if you like, a crucial import area, but also a citizen's familiarity with the state institutions and bodies, and that is why you have a particular responsibility for what you are going to do. This relationship between citizens and local authorities is particularly difficult in our time, political days, and special importance, because when politics is deceived, populism is coming to an end. When the extremities are being watched and caradicated, when all of this is being searched for institutional libraries, you as an irresponsible political force give them exactly what they are looking for, because you are willing to try everything in order to satisfy your dominance. You are ready to institutionalise intergovernmentalism at local level, so that you can make it easier for corruption, hidden behind the argument of parity and equality of vote, but you do not understand or rather understand, but you are consciously seeking to denounce local government through the supremacy guaranteed by the legislation you bring. You finally hurt politics in her heart. Remove citizens from their real institutional representation, weaken the country's own political backbone. Why is that all? To say 'we've brought them.' That's your motive, but you can't bring us in, because the lukewarm is obvious. You appear your intentions by naked eye and you cannot hide your panic. You want to shape conditions if from somewhere you keep to the power you so loved and loved. That's not gonna happen. No one has won elections. You only win them when you have the people with you when you have the momentum of the people's will and you know you don't have it. You're falling apart, you're flirting every day. You almost can't walk in the streets. It is therefore a desperate attempt to do what is being done, a desperate effort that will not produce results. However, we will not allow you to have an unregulated government at local level and therefore throughout the country. We'll be across the street, and we'll be across decisively. We will be politically opposite, we will be socially opposed to it. Your plan will not be completed, because all the citizens of the country see 'big upset', but no one in this country sees the 'wonderful situation'. We will do this by not voting for the bill you bring and by canceling it when we can cancel it, which will be very soon. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr Kumucako, also in terms of time. Come on, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor for five minutes. Tell Mr Barriotta to come by from the Democratic Assent. Or he'll take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u353	I'll talk to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u354	Will you speak, Mr. Arvanitidis, in his place? Okay. He'll talk later. You have the floor, Mr Emmanuelides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. "State of wisdom or of the names of the visit," said the philosopher Antisthesis. Klisthena: The epitome of democratic thought and democratic act.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u356	But aristocratic. Alkmeonides.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u357	I would like you to listen very carefully, Mr Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u358	I always watch you carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u359	Democracy also presupposes economic homogenisation. In ancient Athens there were three areas: astrophy, beach and medieval. Asty's the bourgeois. It's the family rule of the time. The beach is the younger ones rich because of trade and shipping and carbours from Menidi and the wine -growers from Markopoulos were the forgotten ones of God. On these terms of democracy, he could not stand up. So, what's Columbus' egg, Cleisthenes? Each region divides it into ten smaller sections and each region takes one section and creates the ten tribes, thereby ensuring economic homogenisation and sociality. So, in the footsteps of this practice, we come today to decay Athens, which was what? An area of baron. Of course, we of SYRIZA have no stock, we have no pudding in our pockets to spend on the deadlocks. With much cutback and respect for public money - you are not listening to me, Mr Javarra - we are trying to curtail electoral spending.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u360	I'm the one who's a Member of the Second Athens, and I hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u361	You may belong to the edges of the baron. However, the family rule kept well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u362	Well, baronia, I'm not.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u363	I made it clear. Or you may be potential. Do you see how much things have a historical analogy? That is why we say that the name 'CLINIS' is not just a notebook. It's the deepest substance of this bill. And then I come to talk about the second element of mere analogy. It is at least a pitiful decades of political parties having as a flag, as a requested historical history the simple analogue and when this time comes to emerge within the political system, to turn the back. If this thing is not a political opportunism, what else can it be? The simple analogue, gentlemen of the New Democracy and the other parties that rival it, you tell us that it will create enclaves - take under the table. Never do analogue behaviors create such behaviour, because it does not have the authoritarian and non-mathematical counting of the press with 25% to become mayors with a majority council, up hand down hand, on the mayor's cheques. What mayor, is he? The one who, with 25%, acquired absolute sovereignty. These are just arithmetic lessons, but mostly political logic. Finally, I would like to say: Since when does the mere analogue function solublely for the political system? That was a message you served for years, because that was how it suited you. This, of course, arranged for you, too, the logic of the 50 - seat bonus. On these political lines you have built this political domination for many decades. And where did she end up? In a political and social shipwreck. So we should all be very careful to see the calls of the times. With petty and political micropsies, there are no areas they see in tomorrow. Last night he was condemned by society, condemned by the people. And finally, let us see how Europe's countries are going which really through the need for governance find that way of effective cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. Mr. Arvanitides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u365	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, who spoke beforehand, I know very well what a former mayor of 25% is doing. But I know what a 35% government does and how it dissolves the country. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government once again shows its revulsion to every institution and every real reform. Once again we are following the absence of a vision and the deposition of micro-party mechanics and conducts. The government abuses a name, which laid the foundations for democratic reform in Athens. It also abuses a leading institution, the institution of self-government, which leads to intensity. But it also abuses the democratic process itself with the terminology of the amendments and the courgette game at the election date. In recent years, Minister, you have changed three times the date of the self-government elections until you end up in your interests. With nights - amendments to bring elections to local government before the European elections and the days - amendments to post-European elections. The night's burns are seen by day and laughing. Really, elections with how many balls after all? Three, four? In your favourite tactics when you decide, bring one more amendment. One poll, however, denies it stubbornly and contemptuously and is the one of the Greeks abroad. I am talking about facilitating those who, in particular, young people who left Greece during the crisis. Whatever the polls are set up, however, Minister, you will all lose them. Your defeat will be overwhelming on all fronts. Especially in self-government, where you could, with the appropriate structures, start the reconstruction of the country, you, unfortunately, take it back. You want a self-government for savages, a self-government that presupposes the local captains and the pendant positions and positions. You're shaking, you're not building, and that's the big one. An institution, local and regional government, which we as a progressive party have given prestige and dignity, resources and responsibilities, is coming and you are struggling with, with the mayor being able to trade with whatever party he wants. And the only permanent demand for even more resources and responsibilities remains a demand. Your only plan is how to use the institution and the timing of local elections for your micro-party interest. We will live in Babylonia situations, like what Lefkimmi is already living in Corfu.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u366	Hey...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u367	You'll see, my dear friends. You're putting citizens in a police officer Lefkimmi to sign responsible statements to go to their fields, because you're afraid of their reactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u368	Uh, okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u369	But there's here in front of you. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Here, responsible statements at this time in 2018 [[At this point, the Member, Georgios Arvanitidis, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And all this because you have tragically failed to manage waste and are now confronted with your illusions. These delusional ones force you to bring in this bill and the provisions for the FODs. You are, however, leaving Attica, an Attica which, in two or three years' time at most, will close and will unfortunately see the work of Lefkada again because of your ideas and delays. Of course, local communities need to take up their waste and have the institutional modernisation of FODs. What you are doing, however, is a management arrangement, a review merely of the legal framework of FODs other than Attica. You lack the visionary design that can guarantee and run the achievement of the recycling targets for 2020. The way you do it, it's sure you won't get those goals, like many other goals you've set. But who cares about 2020? Definitely not you. In conclusion, this bill is much lower than the circumstances. Local government, ladies and gentlemen, is worth much more. The great reformist Klisthes will connect his name - I want to believe for very little - with the most resounding and opportune arrangements for self-government. The code name you should name in your bill, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is that of the nightmare, because you have betrayed the acquired and permanent objectives of the progressive space for self-government that was no more than an unbundled self-government with resources and responsibilities away from parties and factorism. On this basis, we will move, aware of our role in the good of the country and of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. In his time Mr Arvanitides is accurate, and we thank him very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u371	Mr President, are you making a selective price return?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u372	And I told you, Mr. Kumucaco, when you came down. I don't blame you at all. Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Maximos thought that there could not be a government, particularly left-wing, which respects itself and does not create a new law on local government. It is true that draft laws relating to local government are emblematic in nature and constitute, the clearest expression of the political positions of the respective ruling party. But what if those who govern have nothing new to cut down, nothing to promote and strengthen the role of self-government? What do they do when they really only take more time in their chairs and if they are to lose this evil must be temporary and defeat light? How can they ensure more centralised control and concentration of power in their hands and avoid them from any one of those executives who have had so much trouble in dividing various theories? For otherwise farewell in 35.5%, say goodbye to travel, good-bye, Prime Minister aircraft, social upgrading, gifts and best friends of this world. [[Noise in the Chamber]] How can they build alliances in local government when they never had a sample of people to support them? Because it has been three years, but in order for elections to be held, and the noise from their falling should not be deafening from now on find 'bowls'. And since all of this is critical and existential questions, it is one of what is being done and not said, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, after considering it, found a solution. He chose the safe way he knows very well. Another democracy story unfolds in search of a heavy flagship historical name and found it. 'CARRIETTARIAT' and 'CALCARRIAT', therefore, we. Once the government figured out the way, i.e. a heavy bill, had to deal with the difficult part, what does it say? I have already explained that what they want to pass is not said much more, not written fora. By enlisting the experts, the safe road of the copy paste has again been decided. Copy to save time, effort and mistakes. They took the "KALIKRATI", which, with all its weaknesses, was incited in the transition of the country to a modern state, through the local communities, and copied whole chapters. And that's it. It's not for cold. But they had to put something of their own. They erased what did not serve the strategic plan to stay in the chair, blurred the landscape where they had to be misled and with the appropriate drumcrossing. After creating the right atmosphere of waiting, they have brought it, as always, last minute, a few hours before the end of plenary business. It is true that something different we did not expect from this government. Now, as far as the reactions of the whole local government and all the opposition are concerned, all right, he's learned the trick, he's choking them at the pressure of time. He did it in the Macedonian, did it in the memorials, here he'll fall, alas. And in order to keep quiet, we hear them in the committees, we hear them today, we do not have an accident, enough they are enclosed with the terminology of their partner, they now bring legislative improvements and hasty amendments which they are not able to make, what they are saying. I'm saying, we're getting out of here. All right, guys, for the SYRIZA - ANEL we're talking about, nothing happened. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the last thing you are interested in is strengthening democracy at local level. You are calling into question the governance of the municipalities and regions and then you come as self-determined saviors to resolve it. I'm a little reminded of that paranoid who put on fires to be a heroic fireman. And what you have devised as an ideological basis of your choices, in this draft law on cooperation, or is the result of executives who have nothing to do with self-government or enthusiasm who have full knowledge of the conflicting interests that exist in local societies, open up avenues for micro-political, luxurious, bazaars, transactions, with the bogey of the law, while maintaining for the central power the knife that will cut melon. The rest of the ideological political differences and philosophy, left morality, for unadulterated and inappropriate simple analogues, is the necessary "salsa", which will cover the most bayian political recipe. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from the political space that changed Greece, especially on the issue of self-government, which legislated "KAPDEISTIRIA", which legislated "KALIKRATITH". Since the 1980s it has worked systematically for the transfer of essential responsibilities for a strong and powerful self-government. Having been elected and served for years in the Prefecture of Athens, I know firsthand where it hurts and I assuredly tell you that it is not the referendums that are missing, it is not the representation deficit that hurts her. It hurts. And that's why your bill doesn't do anything, because you just don't care about it. The question of selfgovernment today is the continuation and improvement of the structures. Appointment of powers by the central government along with the necessary resources, not everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you can hear such a thing! The party who has been diligently and with a plan now gathers competences between'mothers', how can it think that it should give them to others, who are not, and is sure that it will control them? How does one expect an incomprehensible SYRIZA that the conquest of the government is not enough and needs to understand the whole state, to give the regions and municipalities which will resolve them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u374	Mrs. Kefalidou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u375	I'll need a minute if I have it, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Besides, we're very few today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u376	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u377	The long-awaited draft law on local self-government, with a vehicle-made one of our own, instead of moving towards real decentralisation, rather than taking a step further, what is it doing? First. First of all, it deals with issues that had never been raised and which could only serve is the government's micropolitical planning. He's changing the electoral system, he's shifting the election time, he's putting out four years, he's cutting, he's sewing, he's stacking, he's squeezing, he's squeezing. It was a dismantling image of the Minister this morning. Eventually everything on the knee is done and the bills of the leg are prone to errors in summing, until he sees how he gets the numbers out. And he wants farts in the project. Gentlemen of government, you won't find them in us, look elsewhere. Two. He is devouring himself to the 'CARRIAGE'. Instead of improvements, drawbacks. Instead of strengthening institutions, dismantling. Third. Under the pretext of simply proportional, it raises the company to a regulator of the municipality's course and institutionalizes the inequality of voting. You put them down, gentlemen of the government, you measured them, you saw that your faithful companions are a small majority, and so you brought it to your measure. Last ones stand first.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u378	Mrs. Kefalidou, it's been a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u379	Finally, I should like to tell you that the sole purpose of this legislative initiative is to change the electoral system just before the self-government elections. They all figured it out. Your only concern is to find a method to secure power. Finally, this draft law actually expresses you. It is emblematic of your perception of policy on representative democracy and self-government. And whatever you're dealing with ties or without doing, that doesn't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u380	Come on, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u381	The self you've built for so many years will be here and you'll be avenged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u382	Mr Pratsol has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I really expected such an important bill to have a political dialogue with arguments and opinions. In other words, from the poetic ostrich that we felt before, we cannot tolerate being said by representatives of Tsukata, Tsochhazopoulou, etc. in this Chamber. For festivities and joys of power. That cannot be accepted. That is the only sure thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u384	You can stop this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u385	Come on! Don't answer that, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u386	I think that Chohatzopoulos, Tsukatos and Mandelis were not in our party. And we are talking today about festivities and ties and about people in power! These belong to someone else. I'm also going to say something else. We have heard here arguments about the Macedonian, about the Albanian, about the playnews that are being played, about resurrecting dreams - we forget it's a summer, and there's also summer night dreams! - but also talk from the New Democracy side about the tampering. They didn't say a word about what this bill regulates beyond a mere analogue. It regulates issues of participatory procedures, accountability issues and many other issues, which have been long-standing requests from local government. And I'm saying this because I have over thirty years in this area. Of course, the question of mere analogy has always been a demand for CEDEFOP sessions by at least 2000. We have heard and heard constantly that when and if the New Democracy comes to power, it will repeal this law. Can I tell you something? I really have no doubt, because it is well known that the New Democracy likes to destroy any positive reform. It's because she's just not in her culture. The New Democracy has always fascinated a centralized client state which has created all these years - I confess with care - to control everything. Perhaps that is why she has never carried out any reform either in the state or in the local government. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like before we assess the intervention of 'CLEARED I' to define the basic hierarchy of our priorities. The central objective was and remains the decentralisation of public policies, given the absolute confusion that prevails as a result of the overlapping of competences between ministries that relate to functions of the first and second degree local government. That is why the core of this bill we are debating today is more democracy, a reason for society, a reason for the municipal council. And the last thing I'm saying is very important, because on many terms of municipal councils there are municipal councillors who have not expressed or spoken at all throughout their term of office. To see, however, what we can really do we need to see what we have and what we can fix. The previous bill, because we are not one of the people who wrong certain reforms, namely 'Kalikaratis', was certainly in a positive direction. He laid the foundations for powerful local and regional units. But it was characterized by its undemocratic and centralised operation, a super-democratic electoral system with a dominance-centre, which led to an end to the attempt to cultivate a culture of consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, in summing up the current situation, I would say that with KALIKARATIS, not only did we not have the opportunity to think globally and act locally, that is to say, to adopt a modernly well-designed, flexible, dynamic model that meets the needs of the time, but instead, the role of local government has been sealed and ratified as the poor relative. With "CLEARED I" our government is attempting to reform local government in phases. With today's draft law, changes are underway that have matured, while with "CLISTEN II", which will follow the necessary constitutional reform and economic recovery in the country, there will be a new package of interventions for essential problems pending. ‘CLOSURE II’ introduces significant changes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want at least two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u387	At least!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u388	In particular, the leading change in the electoral system, namely the implementation of a mere proportional change, which is a necessary democratic cut, which is fully compatible with the planning commitments of our government, a change that at its core is more and more essential democracy. With regard to all this philosophy of anti-governmentism, I would say that this actually shows fear of cooperation and the creation of consensus. It introduces the formation of a new categorisation of the municipalities, according to which aid with state resources is not on the sole basis the population, but is formulated a set of criteria such as land, dividing into mountain, island or metropolitan municipalities, the unemployment rate, the road network, etc. These are changes in the logic of strengthening participatory processes at local level and, of course, it solves many other malfunctions, which cannot be mentioned here due to a lack of time. Ladies and gentlemen, you always know that the Opposition traditionally, badly for me, asks for more than it really can be. It is the greatest hypocrisy today, however, of the New Democracy and also of PASOK, to vote for the Greeks. It is hypocrisy and certainly a mockery to the migrant Greeks when forty years the two parties that ruled the country did not resolve this issue, despite the introduction of the letter of vote in 2001. And they really have the nerve, I would say, to abdicate the SYRIZA - ANEL Government today because it has not solved it and even by acting hypocritically and a proposal for a law. We are going to set up a committee which will examine all the parameters to resolve this issue. It is certain that this bill now instigates a radically opposite attitude and practice in the field of local self-government with the introduction of mere analogous, which has been so ostracized by opposition, precisely because most democracy is not only fascinated by them, but is afraid of them. The margins of arbitrary exercise without accountability are dangerous. Finally, local communities must be expressed and administered pluralist and fair. We are aware that much remains to be done, with basic conditions for the constitutional review and the economic recovery of the country, but we are convinced and confident that we are moving in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u389	Mr Gatis has the floor. We're waiting for Mr. Rizzoulis and Mr. Anastasiades is closing for tonight. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that the bill we are debating today is crucial and essential for the course of Greek society and political life, which is why he must be serious in dealing with it. Local government has always been an area that the Left believed in and which served with consistency, vision, devotion, efficiency for decades. It is an institution that has deep roots in the history of Hellenism and for centuries supported the privileges of the people in health, education and political representation. In today's circumstances, we think that strengthening regional decentralisation is not only a mature demand of the times - and at European level - to deepen democracy, but also a modern development challenge for better, more flexible, more efficient and efficient functioning of institutions at local, regional, national and European level in the end. In this context, today's bill comes to give answers to problems we had identified from some time ago in "KALIKARATI", to provide solutions, corrections and create new prospects mainly, with radical rather than superficial reforms, moving in line with the country's spatial and demographic specificities. I would like to refer in particular to a number of points in the bill. Initially, a request for many decades of the self-government movement and the CED itself was the introduction of a mere analogous to the self-government elections, and now it is taking place for the first time and it is insulting for the structure itself and the essence of the mere analogy to be described as "saltsa" here today. This is not just a historic section towards democratisation within the framework of self-government. On the other hand, despite the objections of counter-population and the established interests, simply analogues are not just fair, they are also functional and necessary for the effective participation of citizens in local government, because at a time of major challenges in which radical areas are needed as much as ever as possible. From this point of view, then, simple analogue is not an intergovernmental factor, as the opposition and the other parties want to call it, but rather a factor of stability and fundamental democracy. It presupposes and imposes substantial and transparent cooperation, programmatic shocks, creative compositions. Secondly, with today's bill for the first time, referendums on important local issues are being introduced. The citizen becomes the final judge, an active and informed citizen who is invited to make decisions, to be informed and to know. We trust in the opinion of the citizens, when they are called upon to make decisions on issues that concern them, and we believe that the new institution of referendums will mobilise the interest and involvement of citizens, open up discussions, feed into reflection, produce political solutions at local level. Thirdly, we want municipalities that are efficient and economically viable. This important aspect of the bill concerns not the decision-making process, but also the operation of the ATTs itself, and, in particular, the framework of the competences for the effective response to local problems, on the one hand, and their contribution to the development of local societies through the recognition of spatial, population, economic needs and the exploitation of, respectively, the particular potential of municipalities serving their citizens, making their lives easier, but which will also contribute to the economic development of local communities and the overall recovery of the country. In this context, it is important to categorise the municipalities provided for in the new bill by establishing a number of criteria for population, socio-economic, spatial and income allocations entered in the budget for public investment and the local budget. Insularity and mountainity, spatial area, demographic characteristics, levels of unemployment, the quality of existing infrastructures are taken into account in the allocation of resources with a view to removing inequalities. Our aim is to work in this direction, while strengthening autonomy through a number of institutional measures that allow solutions to be given as much as possible by the Otto themselves, to which important powers are conferred not only on the collection and management of waste but also on their energy adequacy, the desalination, as we have on the islands, of the utilities company. For example, small islands provide for the possibility of setting up a one-stop company for the operation of a liquid fuel service. Reduction of energy costs and social control aimed at energy adequacy are the expected benefits for local communities. This is an important section that will prevent the outflow of resources and stimulate local economies at the same time. We also promote intra-democratic and intra-regional decentralisation of competences, which will make the services provided to citizens more flexible and effective, such as combined transport, an important intervention to remove the isolation of island regions. Finally, I would like to make a brief reference to the draft budget procedure. For the first time, the participatory budget, which is an additional practical confirmation that the new charter of self-government is aimed at radical democratisation towards authoritarianism and changing the principle of a man with broad consensus through substantial dialogue and collectively finding solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that, with the new regulations, the local authorities will be the laboratories of democracy and participation, they will win the bet of citizens' confidence, and they will become what really suited them, a vehicle of essential self-government, standing next to the citizen and his problems and combine solutions to local problems, while at the same time giving impetus to the overall national effort for balanced, fair and sustainable development. We are determined to move forward with a new architecture of self-government, which will strengthen our efforts in the productive reconstruction of the country, just as Cleisthenes has done - and let us not take him in here - so that Herodotus can win the battle and bring us his stories, taking over with the reforms that we are proposing on our side of the people. In addition, Mr President, I would like you to allow me, because I have tabled an amendment, to ask the Minister to accept it. It is Amendment No 1674, and Amendment No 64, which refers to the amendment of the provisions of Article 51 of Law 4407/16. We are proposing to remove the service criterion at regional headquarters as a selection criterion for non-subscribing members from the service councils. We believe that with the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u391	Come on, Mr. Gaki, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u392	It won't take half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u393	But you've already reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u394	It's the amendment. That is why, Mr President. The amendment seeks to remove injustice and equal representation of workers on the service board, resulting from the geographical distribution of services. At the same time, it contributes substantially to the optimal functioning of the service council and to the material removal of any intra-regional disparities caused by the non-representation of workers on the service board by services of the region operating outside the region’s headquarters. This was the case, for example, in the very difficult south Aegean region, where heretics had to be employees of the capital, i.e. Syros and not Rhodes, which was 60% of the workforce. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u395	We will have the opportunity to read it anyway and to see the ministers. Mr. Risoulis has the floor for five minutes, and then Mr. Anastasiades follows us and we close for tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr President. I will be placed soon, also because of the time I have and also because of the time. We heard from the opposition the arguments of controversy about the bill and, as I did, I think they are three. One is the simple analogue that leads to insolence, the other is the vote of the homosexuals, and there are others that have been heard by the other groups. First of all, on the subject of mere analogy, the argument is, I think, too much. Because we also apply to national elections and self-government elections the constant demand of a democratic left-wing world for a simple analogue, considering that this system is the system which integrates the citizen into a process, but also the vote of no one is lost. It is a democratic measure of expression that is simply proportional. So I think that's where we should stop the conversation. The question of immunity has now also been raised during the debates on simple analogues at national level. Here I will only use two words of my colleague Mrs Tassia Christodoulou. I don't have to say anything more. He spoke to the committee and said that those who claim that simple proportionality will bring powerlessness, insolence is a term and a way of saying less democracy. In essence, those who defend analogue systems and even such enhanced analogy, as we have in self-government, are probably talking about less democracy. On the issue of homosexuals, I was struck by a Member of Parliament - I will say his name - Mr Katsaniotis, who has heard me say that we have little to do with homeland, while they are very patriots and want the people of abroad to have rights, those who have left in recent years with 25% of GDP reductions, which have been forced to leave and now all efforts are being made and those possibilities are being given for their return slowly. These are patriots, but forty years they were ignored, of course, and they remembered patriotism with the SYRIZA Government, the only government that has so far said and accepted that what the Minister said is an overtime request, which we will consider and bring to Parliament. I do not know if we have a previous Minister of State who has said such a thing. However, this government is doing so and let us not be so patriots. I was surprised to hear some things from the JRC's side that the financial control of the municipalities is a problem for democracy and control over the municipalities. I don't understand that, nor can I combine it with anything else. In other words, it said that municipalities should not be controlled, that they are so well in the municipalities, which are the first to corruption by public bodies and should not be audited in any way and that financial control that comes from the government creates a problem. I'm finishing up with something to do with Patras and the performance of the sea front, and I want to make a combination. This is about the people's interests that come in every time, that whatever law we bring, it does not serve the people's interests. I'll get an example, and that's what I'll finish. There is a decision by the Larisa Municipal Council, which says that the municipality is moving on to 2.6m euros in a park, with an exhibition of agricultural products, with recreational spaces, sidewalks, bicycle roads. All of them, he says, have voted on this, except for the People's Confederacy, which considered this not to be a service to the people's interests. Now, this concerns me, because the day before yesterday we gave the sea front, not the Mayor of Patras, the city, and there are recreational, sports, pedestrian roads. Not to say that the municipality will do nothing, because in these capitalism they do not actually serve the people's interests. I am very curious to see the programme of the Municipality of Patras there and of our Mayor, Mr Peletidis, in how the pedestrians envisaged, the recreational areas and the other 40 million that he took in the programme for sustainable cities, will implement it in such a way that pedestrians can also be made, and this really serves people's interests in another way than others do. To conclude, I would like to say that no debate has been heard about the bill - obviously not there - for the areas it brings up for the mountainous municipalities, which, for the first time, are entering the forefront and are creating other conditions for small communities which are now able to participate in the project processes in their region, but also the very important part of the single ballots, where they can be expressed, without being mobilised - let us say so - by their examples, which at least in the provincial municipalities they have created feminine family and non-democratic processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr. Risouli. Mr Anastasiades has the floor to conclude this evening's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. The outgoing colleague, Mr Risulis, said that the simple analogue, was a consistent demand from the Left. Yes, sir. The remaining 90% who disagrees with this request, you figure it out at all, do you count it at all?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u399	And the democratic world.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u400	A consistent demand from the Left, you said. So I ask: The remaining 90%, who disagrees with the simple analogue, is heard by the government or how democratic is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u401	...on the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u402	90% disagrees because it does not exceed 10%, Minister. The bill, as you bring it to the House today, clearly shows your understanding and the way you legislate, with a micro-party perception and party purpose. That, no matter how hard you're trying, you can't contradict it. You choose the simple analogue, i.e. the dissolution of self-government. In essence, that is what you only choose democracy and the equitableness of voting. So, all these years in the municipalities, there wasn't a democracy? They didn't function democratically? Wasn't there an equivalency of the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u403	Equality didn't exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u404	So you, who define yourself as democrats and you are being cut off for democracy and social consensus and the people, are not listening to anyone today. Mostly, you don't listen to those who have experience from self-government. You are not listening to the self-government and their trade unions, you who are talking about democracy. Why? Because they don't suit you, of course, what they say. What does not suit you is undemocratic. The overwhelming proportion of self-government - and you know that very well - over 90% disagrees with you. They're vertically opposite to what you're doing. But you insist, as if the problem of self-government today is simply proportional. You have solved all the other problems of sub-funding, sub-selling, waste management, bureaucracy and it is only left to solve the issue of mere proportionality. It is certain - and if you are here to see it - that this bill will cause many more problems than you hope - if you hope - that it will be resolved. I went by self-government before I came to this room and I have experience in this matter. My experience tells me that municipalities and regions need governance, ladies and gentlemen. Municipalities and regions need decisions and actions, administration and, ultimately, a result. With today's bill you drive self-government into full power. This is what you are enacting today: insolence, transaction, jagged under the table, undisturbed self-government. There you lead it with mathematical accuracy with the simple analogy you publish. The municipalities and regions will paralyse. You say you categorize municipalities on different criteria. Why don't you take into account the territorial criterion of the area? There are municipalities that have a huge extent and are unable to serve the daily lives of the citizens, are unable to communicate, manage waste due to the long distance and the many settlements. We have such an example in our region that Mr Mardas has dealt with. We have a mountainous municipality, the Municipality of Soho, which currently belongs to the municipality of Lagada. And from what he says, he also submitted a proposal. How about this? What do you think you're going to do? Are you thinking of opening this thing? And why don't you put the criteria for categorisation and that? I shall be standing, Mr President, on a great subject, on a timely request from the Greeks abroad, from the Greeks, from the Greeks and from the Greeks, that of the vote. And because you said, Mr. Rizouli, I would like to tell you that the New Democracy as a government has brought a bill on this matter. As a government, he brought a bill, and as opposition he filed two bills. This issue, ladies and gentlemen, is not a matter of party. This issue is a national issue. That's how we have to deal with it. It is a constant request from the Greeks abroad. Why are you denying it to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u405	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u406	You. Why are you denying it to them? What is it that prevents you? The excuse that there are problems and we will set up a committee to deal with them and solve them is for naive people and is pushing, kicking the problem, the can below. You're afraid the relatives will bring the reclassification to the political scenery. But, Minister, you who define yourself as a progressive one and say that you are listening to society, how do you deny this right to our compatriots abroad? [[Noise in the Chamber]] What's bothering you? Why are you grumbling?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u407	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mr. Anastasiades, continue. But you're opening a dialogue. Don't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u408	I'm sorry. We shouldn't think and think of the next elections, Minister, but we should think...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u409	So many years, how do you deprive it of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u410	You have a little patience and you listen to politeness. We heard you without talking. A little courtesy doesn't hurt. You must think about the next generations and the country and the country, Minister. Unfortunately, however, none of this concerns you. All you think about is your survival and it can be maintained through the chaos you are trying to bring with the bill that is being tabled today. Be sure, however, that you will fall into the pit you dig for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr Anastasiades. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-07-11-S2-commons.u412	With the agreement of the House at no time of 23.51' the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, July 12, 2018 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Reforming the institutional framework of the Local Government - Enhancement of the Republic - Strengthening the Participation - Improving the economic and development functioning of the OTAs" [CLINTHEN I] - Arrangements for modernising the framework for the organisation and operation of the VOCs. - Arrangements for the effective, more rapid and uniform exercise of the responsibilities for the award of citizenship and naturalisation - Other provisions of the RIS.
