ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Today, five topical questions will be discussed. The first to be discussed will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport Mr. George Vasiliadis. So we begin with the third with number 49/17-9-2018, a top-level question for the first-round question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Be the necessary medical examinations for those involved in sports activities with state responsibility and funding through the structures of the state." Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for two minutes to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, pre-competitive control, the identification of high-risk groups, the creation of rescue structures and first aid in sports spaces is a chronic problem that has unfortunately not been solved so far. The introduction of an athlete's health card and it is necessary, in itself, that it does not solve the problem, because there is neither a state structure nor a care nor a suitable infrastructure to establish preventive and qualified examinations for the whole population that are faced effectively and directly with what is needed, namely to ensure the health of the athlete. It shall not be combined with funding, staff, or with the presence of a sportsman in all sports activities, especially when the cost of the examinations for the issue and renewing of the sport is subject to unions and by extension to parents. At this time when registrations in sports clubs and their activities, the programs of the municipalities and schools, the family must pay twice or three times for the same check, to certify the health of the children. For issuing sports notes, in several cases there has been evidence of nonexistent or virtual control or even simply sealing the certificate by a known doctor, who may have never seen the athletes themselves. Many unions are forced to turn to private and private centres, concluding contracts with them. That's a normal talisman for every child. When the state does not take the examinations free of charge of athletes, students, then insurance companies are taking action, ready to destroy their target, who are students, athletes, their parents and make a normal 'party'. I shall submit to the minutes an offer from an insurance company so that you can have knowledge, which I assume you will, but in any case, have what is going on in practice. Offering an insurance company for the month of September, with a free sport certificate for children, provided that the parent accepts the company's health program, on payment of course. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. I don't know if that's what he's saying. In any case, I put it to you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] This is how the absence of the state strengthens businessmen. This new INFO institutions in our view failed before it even started. It's only been six hundred and twenty-five doctors, all of them. Sixty family doctors for every million people insured. The appointment with a private doctor and the payment of the visit is a one-way route for most insured persons, while the bypassway of visits to pathologists, pediatricians who are involved in health centres or former multi-medical hospitals is permanently blocked. So we ask you, Minister, what measures does the government intend to take to solve the question of medical examinations centrally, with the sole responsibility of the State, the question of state funding, through the structures of the state, without imposing the people's family? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. I would ask the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr. George Vasiliadis, to respond for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. For the first time in the history of Greek sport and in order to avoid and tackle the phenomena of sudden death, the Greek state with Law 4479/2017, as you know, established the certification of the health of athletes by issuing the relevant health card. In August 2018, the relevant NCAs were issued to establish relevant details. I will analyse you later for the reason of the extension, we do not need to make conspiracy theories. The health card only concerns athletes, i.e. clubs and their holders. The health card is issued free of charge by the federation, while the health of the athlete is certified by a cardiologist, in order to avoid the phenomena of mass signatures, without ever being examined, as we know was the case in the past. In the published CYA, as you have read, the possibility of certification by doctors of primary health services, which now begins and will become even better in the future, as well as prefectures, regional, university hospitals, health and military units. We have at the same time enabled doctors of other specialties, since they have passed a seminar from the EAEC, to train in the field of predictive control of athletes. The relevant seminars to be carried out by the EAEC are estimated to begin in October. The spirit of the legislation was the separation of the health card from the sporting capacity card, on the subject of personal data, but also on the issue of wrestling by the federations. That is why the health card is a personal document of the athlete and no copy is kept in the federation. At the same time, however, its non-produced race means the exclusion of the athlete. Because there have been issues - and that is the reason for the extension - concerning the new regime and some federations have not been harmonized because of misconception, with a request from the federations, we have given this extension of one month and not for another reason. In any case, however, the possibility of going to public hospitals and public structures exists. If anyone wants to go to a private doctor, that cannot be forbidden, but at the same time we have open all units and as a priority, and that is the directive, that is to say, that children should accept the cardiogram and not have other deaths, because last year we mourned the death of a new athlete for that reason. I therefore do not understand how the burden arises. Possibly if he chooses, he can go to a private person, but health structures remain open. It is clear and unequivocal that the card is issued free of charge and through the structures that we enlarge and through the TEMPUS will have access to this basic service without charge. Consistent - I believe - in our policy, we emphasise the prevention and immunisation of the health of athletes, without burdening the state budget and for the first time guaranteeing health control especially of young children.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We're on our way to Mr. Synthraki's dentology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u6	Minister, if you notice, I started the protology by saying that setting up an athlete's card is necessary, but not that it solves the problem by itself. I'd rather you start with that, that first there's a real thing. You didn't say that. You tried in a theoretical way to say that "we made the health card, the structures are open" etc. Obviously this is not the case with the government's policy, a policy that is not present, but is time-consuming in New Democracy and in PASOK. What's the matter? That every year we mourn victims, young people on the field. In Crete there are dozens of such cases, in Elefsina, in Larissa, in Iannina. Why? Because these cases have not been diagnosed in time. Such incidents know that they occur primarily and by dozens usually in friendly games, that is, where there is no doctor. So who will solve the problem of periodic examination, not once, and it is over, but stable? Who's responsible? Who takes the cost and how will it solve the problem? Instructions may be given, such as those you have previously given or advertised a government program, work, what you say with the health card, etc. Tell us what the funds you have approved for pre-sport control are. Practical things. We don't ask for refreshing things or wild stories. Today there are too many obstacles. In practice, a pediatrician or pathologist does not take responsibility for giving a certificate. You know that? We're also talking about public hospitals. He doesn't take over.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u7	And he doesn't take care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u8	For example, for cardiologic requests, it refers to a special cardiologist. The range and cost of the examinations are therefore doubled. There are too many such cases. If you want, I could talk to you for a long time about these cases. Meanwhile, another piece of paper you want for school gym class, another one for the club and it goes on to say, to pay two and three times for the same reason. In many municipalities a health card for entering an athletic area has been introduced, the publication of which requires examinations. That is another package which does not concern unions. Just to get in, run or walk in a municipal stage, he wants a card. For the JRC, sport is a right, it is no luxury. In this respect, therefore, the State centrally must organise the periodic examination with individual background and monitoring, without any charge on the part of interested parties, without any intervention by individuals, nor should it be the individual responsibility of the parents. Another parent does not have the financial capacity to do so, another neglects it or delays it because of costs. In our view, particular weight should be given to the health of students and athletes by taking care of the state, by introducing a health card with the responsibility and cost of the state and with every three months specialised examinations for all students free of charge and by ensuring the presence of an athlete in all sports activities. Specific programmes for children with physical and health problems should also be organised, with immediate appointments of teachers of physical education with this specific training. And, of course, a set of conditions such as funding, infrastructure and staff must be guaranteed. All this, in our view, needs to be provided to the new generation free of charge from an organised primary health care network that the TEMPUS today cannot even offer. So I think you should answer very specifically the question that we are asking you, how will the problem of pre-competitive control, the responsibility of the state be solved, so that we do not mourn other victims and not trouble parents and put a deeper hand in the pocket? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, MP of Heraklion of the KKE. The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports Mr Vasiliadis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u10	I insist that I do not understand why, Mr Syndrome. For the periodic audit, the athlete's health card is renewed every year. It's not just refreshed. He's got to go through an exam again. The periodic review is therefore in place. The quarterly control based on medical protocols is excessive. On the basis of medical protocols, the necessary tests have been taken to get the health certificate. On the basis of the instructions of the Ministry of Health and the rules laid down by the European Union, the whole procedure is taking place. From there on, for the presence of medical staff in the matches based on Law 4479/2017, where for the first time there was the categorisation of sports facilities, there was provision for the compulsory presence of doctors rescued and ambulance in the large sports infrastructures and in the smaller sports infrastructures for the compulsory presence of a rescuer or a man qualified in the provision of first aid, who in essence provides what the EAW provides, if we call it under normal conditions, as well as the presence of an ambulance. And that's a reality. That's what's happening. There's federal control over whether they're following the law. There are many times that there is a tide of federations that do not want to follow this process. I do not need to mention specific examples here, especially of smaller federations that insist on and demand that there be no ambulance at the time of the competitions, particularly in dangerous sports. From there on, the card doesn't solve the problem. There must also be the corresponding culture, and we must avoid the logic that we are going to go for a formal check on the doctor. For this reason, if the athlete's health card is not available, the athlete cannot participate in a racing obligation. And schools ask for medical evidence, because that's all about athletes. Again there can be no burden because public health units are open to them. In any case, I speak with personal experience as a parent. Parents, at the beginning of the year, where we take our children, have the necessary documentation with us. Let's go to the doctor once. We don’t have to go every ten days for the same purpose. As to the specialties you have said, no other doctors actually sign. The law explicitly provides for it. Cardiologists alone have this specialty and they can do these tests. That's why we set up the certification of other specialties, so the system won't be blocked. Obviously not everything is well burned. This is the first year that this measure works. If we need to make intervention, we'll be on the way. The funds are made available by the Ministry of Health with the increased budget it has for the first time in the memorandum years. From time to time it will be even more increased as it will appear in the next few days in the budget. I think there are problems, but the steps that have been taken are serious, so that we cannot have these tragic phenomena of young people who do not know it - and their parents are even more tragic cases - stay in the field. I fully agree with you. I think this year's gonna show that we're at a better place. At the same time we are trying to exploit, in cooperation with the football federation, the equipment that was bought at the time. I don't want to deal with the ugly side of the health card that the EPA had tried to introduce. I'm not getting into the point of this case. He was bought. There is. He's a modern telematic. We want to use him as well in primary health structures, leave his boxes after a decade and use him for faster results and faster care for people in cases where you understand that in September we all run to hospitals there may be a slight delay. We receive every benefit and organise the next day of the memorial transition to a normal state. The athlete's health card is part of the same philosophy and in the same context of all the actions of the government to organise a normal country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u11	We thank the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Vassiliou, for answering the question of MP Emmanuel Syntagakis. We move to the fourth with number 46/13-9-2018, the first-round question of Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Annoying about the future of the sanctuary of Farmera Artemidos expresses the Association of Greek Archaeologists". In this timely question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Myrsini Zorba. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u12	Madam Minister, on the basis of my question, but also on the basis of my view - in my view - of the undeniable interest you have and I think that you have in relation to such matters, you should know about fundamentally or fully. The area of Artemis has been declared archaeological site since 1960. For the past fifty years, since 1964, the Central Archaeological Council has been calling for the space to be expropriated because of its particular cultural importance and historical value. There is, therefore, a route of over fifty years, where all previous governments and state management have not acted on this matter. It is not the case at present, nor do I submit it for opposition. We have fifty years - not to say indifference, because perhaps the word is heavy - an inertia of the state in terms of seeing how the matter can be solved. So there is an inertia and nothing moves around this issue. Recently, however, we have a suggestion to the Third Educacy of Prehistoric and Classical Antiquities, which has caused a particularly worrying atmosphere, that it is not excluded that, based on the suggestion, we should quickly have a building of space, an area that is very important, even if it is true - and it will be, I suppose - the elements Mrs Banna says, that there are few pieces of old monuments left, perhaps being more realistic to deal with, something to do, to build a place, to stay another. Even so, if things are about this historic place that is adjacent to the Olympian and is in a town where millions of tourists basically visit it not to take walks on its streets, but why does it provide a global cultural message with the spaces it has, if that is the case, ask you: What should or can the Ministry do with the interest that it is obliged to display in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you to Mr Lykoudi for the issue he has raised. We are now calling on the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Myrsini Zorba, for her first speech on this subject. We're listening, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u14	Have a good day, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are the first two to ask me questions. Thank you very much. You give the opportunity to discuss questions which are often chronological, and that makes sense - I think - to bring them back to light. This particular property in Mets there at Ardettu Street, Thomopoulou, etc. - it's a block - it started to be excavated, Mr. Lykoudi, since the 19th century, that is, in 1897. So his story is too long, and the delay is huge. Then they were found Roman and hysterical graves there. As you know, classical antiquity is the one that monollied the interest of archaeologists for many decades, not a century. Then they saw Roman or Ottoman. So that is one reason why we need to see the delay. However, in the 1960 ’ s there is a survival excavation, for the Ardetto Avenue is opened. So there comes the light of a wall section that archaeologists call it the Ascension Division. It is saved until now in the praesthes of the rock. The excavator of the time considers that he is part of the infamous temple of Artemis. The expropriation of 1400 sq.m. It was examined by the CAS in 1964. In view of what? The plan of a city that was made at that time, in order to keep the archaeological site free and to visit. Then it was decided for the first time and the expropriation of the area from existing buildings. He returned to CAS many times, and to the Ministry's co-authorities in 2002. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I am brief, but I am telling you some stations because the Archaeological Service has to say that it is vigilant over all monuments or excavations, but it does not always have the opportunity. And I'll tell you what possibility he doesn't have. There is, therefore, a joint ministerial decision of the Ministry of Finance and Culture in 2002. In 2002, the forced expropriation was withdrawn as it was not carried out in the short term, but the CSM in 2003 reintroduced and therefore considered it expropriate again. You can see there's a tacticystinda going on. But why are expropriation decisions in essence ineffective? Because the EIF had not been able to make enough money. We all know it was the Ministry of Culture's vault, however, I think it's been opened lately and we can have a good hope for the EDF. Anyway, they couldn't afford expropriation. An excavation survey takes place in 2005, old buildings are being found from the property and in 2015 the archaeological documentation of the new data derived from this survey follows. It took ten years, that is, mostly archaeologists feel a body of scientists who want to do his research and ask for time. After all this, the Department of Department of Prehistoric and Classical Antiquities of the Directorate-General for Antiquities of Cultural Heritage informs us that this case is on the CSCE's agenda again with the new research data. That is what we are waiting for him to give a relatively rapid opinion, I hope. It is one of the most expensive properties in the city due to its location and exceptional view of the Acropolis. So the amount should be taken into account in the C.E.S.'s decision. Personally, I believe that the CAS leaves nothing in its luck, except that the delays are sometimes fatal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. The rest in your dentistry, Minister. Mr. Lykoudis has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u16	Minister, for me it is extremely important that, with your protology and the very interesting historical regression you have made on this issue, you have confirmed that there is a subject. You have confirmed - in my opinion - the interest of the Ministry and you personally, because otherwise you would not say what you said, you would say other things, you would try to hide the matter or stain it. I have the impression that exactly what you have said and what you have said is the greatest of the problem. So it's just like that. There is an area that is of enormous historical importance. Obviously, if the Parthenon pillars were there, it would have ended the matter, but that's not the place. The site needs further excavations based on ICOMOS statements. We are still waiting for new excavations to come to the surface and other very interesting elements of our cultural past. If that is the case, which is what the ministerial statements say and not the honourable Member, the state must do. In other words, if we end up, Minister, in what you said at the end, and I suppose you understand, I would say that it is too small the size of the argument that "it is too precise to expropriate, unfortunately there is no money and what to do now"? That is why I do not blame the present government or management from the present state. Fifty years the governments have not gone through this, perhaps from inertia I said before, but if you want me to become more sharp, perhaps because they are not excluded from wanting to collide with the enormous financial interests of private interests that exist in the respective area, owners, etc. That cannot be the case. But if that is the case, we have to decide. Eventually in this country, the huge issue of economic hardship can bring about such interventions, I mean dangerous, burdensome, for its great weapon, its great peak, which is culture and we all deaf? I repeat that the millions of visitors of Athens every year do not just come for the clean sky of Attica. They come because there's a message from this town to all of humanity that he has something to show them. If that is what we are integrating it into the logic of economic difficulties and therefore, of the difficulty of expropriation, we are not going anywhere. I must tell you that with great care and respect I read Mrs Bana's suggestion, because it is not by chance, he is an evaluable member of the state, who does the work he does. And when Mrs Banna says "let's see what we can do", I can't help it and her sensitivity to the matter. Above all, however, my question has - I think - the sensitivity of a city that wants to highlight its past and I think that this sensitivity is far greater and much more imposing than everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. We call on the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr.Mursini Zorba, for its second-guess, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u18	I just want to tell you that I think archaeologists and especially the KAS are the guardians and the identity of the city and its cultural heritage. And if they're accused of something, it's because they're meticulous, because they're loyal to their scientific analysis, because they're "chrong." But I think they really do an excellent job. I have to tell you, however, that I knew the Ministry before crossing the threshold and my previous experience, but I have never had the opportunity to understand its regional scope, because Greece is sown from ancient times, and the systematic work that is being done. It's a construction site of engineers, archaeologists, conservators, etc. I therefore believe that it is a guarantee that he returns to the OSCE and his decision will make us a commitment to the follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. We move to the sixth under number 36/7-9-2018, the first question of the First Cycle of the MP at Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Restoration of frescoes of the Holy Church of Agios Ioannou Theologian Municipality of Acharon". The question will be answered by Minister Myrsini Zorba. For two minutes, Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor for his protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I would like to congratulate you on taking on your new duties and wishing every success in your difficult and demanding work. I believe that you will successfully respond to the existing challenges and I look forward to your due sensitivity to the issues that are today a series of issues of cultural and social interest. I would like you to know that as a Member of the Attica Region I am becoming a socialist, receiving and receiving issues of local societies that are my constituency by my fellow citizens with whom I have acquired strong ties, cooperation, friendship and communication and which I have, of course, sworn to serve. Today's topical question which I ask in mind - and with the opportunity of thanking you for your immediate response, which we are discussing today - concerns the provision of a solid request from the local society of the Municipality of Acharnon, which, of course, relates to your responsibilities and to the opportunity of giving, Madam Minister, you will be constructively helping to resolve it. Five centuries now the small temple of St. John the Theologian stands a silent witness of all those who play in this difficult area of the Municipality of Acharnon. His appeal from the godly flock of the region for taxi and euphoria fits perfectly - I would say - in the rural municipality, the municipality of Acharnon. The Holy Temple of St. John the Theologian was created with excellent religious and historical value paintings and icons, such as Enthony Panagia, Jesus on the throne and Saint John the Prodromos were unfortunately at risk of being defeated by the passing of the years. I believe that the integration of the najsk into a European funding programme or the finding of funds in order to maintain and restore the damage it has suffered so that they do not become irreversible, Minister, will act supportively following the existence of the region in the post-Byzantine years and ensure its long-standing presence. My practical expression of interest in this matter is my minimum debt to my fellow citizens in the city they live in and I have had every obligation to convey to you their request, hoping that your presence in the area of culture will also give the appropriate solution. What I now look forward, Mr President, to end, is Minister, to show your own concern on this matter, so that the services responsible can deal with it and ensure that this religious, historical monument is saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. The main reason for this is the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Myrsini Zorba.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Katsiki for his opportunity to participate in parliamentary control work. The chapel of Agios Ioannis the Theologian located in the Municipality of Acharnon in the central square touch - as you know, Mr Katsiki, and I know - on the southern side of the church of Agios Vlasios, which is the metropolitan temple of the municipality. It is estimated by the services that it is the 16th century or 17th century, it is not so important, it is indeed a monument of cultural heritage. Inside it there is fresco, decorating in the Holy Step, a built icon and therefore a little bit of the story that the far 1972, that is, we count forty-four years ago, some work was carried out to restore the damage caused by time in the monument. But today he does need repairs to the building. The masonry substrate has been eroded, mortars have been demolished. There is also a loss of part of the painting surface, which we should see. The problem is mainly caused by terrain - we are told by the conservers - humidity due to the fact that the naisco is occupied and the shaping of the square has been found under the ground. So this humidity started to rise. This was found in a last autopsy on April 20, 2018. Therefore, at present, the Western Attica Antiquities Branch has already launched sustainable measures to establish the painting surface and the work was scheduled to start this week. It's a coincidence, but it's a good juncture. It's not my fault. I can't say I did anything more! But that's the way it is. However, the results of these interventions for the fixing of the painting area and frescoes - although positive - are considered only temporary if there is no solution to the problem of the impoverishment of the temple by the plaza-forming work. In other words, it must happen around a moat. This solution - which seems to be the right one - cannot be done unless the relevant bodies, namely the municipality and Metropolis, are involved in such work. This is where the Ministry moves beyond the provisional solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsikis has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much because on the one hand you are fully aware of the situation in that naisco, and on the other, let me add that it was an ancient temple and then turned into a Christian-Byzantine temple. Therefore, histories and his value not only increases, but also proves the technical problem because of the past, which you rightly mentioned. On the other hand, I believe that both the local society, whose concern it should have and the municipal authority of the Municipality of Acharnon, and your interest as Minister of Culture, will create that good cooperation so that your services will take care of the desired results. I was very pleased to hear you said that it was launched and in a week's time, restoration work will begin. And I believe that my pleasure will also be mutated through this debate and in the local society, which has been awaiting it for years. In wishing you all success in your work again, I shall end here, Mr President, my second language. I have nothing more to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. The Minister has the floor for her denunciation for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u26	To be precise, I have here the service document which tells us that maintenance work has already begun since Monday 17-09, since Monday. It is therefore important to monitor it and we too, in order to have a quick, good cooperation with the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. We move to the first with number 45/13-9-2018, a top-stage question for the first cycle of the Member of the Athens Parliament, Mr. Miltiades Varvitsiotis, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on "The situation on the islands of the eastern Aegean". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas. The honourable Member has the floor, Mr Varvitsiotis, to develop his question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, the images of shame which are broadcast every day from Moria, from the islands of the eastern Aegean, show three things, three simple words: weakness, incompetence and opacity. Impossible of formulating a policy. Incompetence in the implementation of any policy, whether or not it has been decided. Of course, lack of transparency in the management of the coarse money. We are talking here, Minister, about an issue that really offends the whole of humanity. Today, Moria is not a place, and it's not a clue that comes into the map of humanism. Moria today is the global symbol of human impoverishment and governmental impotence. You have had time and money to deal with this situation. Although there is no pressure today on the refugee flows, the picture presented on the islands of the eastern Aegean is an image which is a shame on Europe, it is a shame on our country, it is a shame on the islanders, who have shown a great deal of humanism in the past, when they were called to help people on their shores. It is surprising that with so many possibilities and money available to you, with so much time at your disposal, from the day the Europe-Turkey Agreement was signed or announced, you have not been able to deal with this. And now you, too, are personally accountable for the lack of policies by a ministry set up to deal with this very matter. You've failed. And today what we expect to hear is not only what you are going to do, but we expect to hear a great apologies to the citizens of the islands of the northern Aegean, whom you have abandoned and given them north into extreme movements, because exactly the situation that prevails calls for drastic solutions. We, Minister, have tabled the framework for our proposals. We submitted this to you, and when we discussed the bill in the House, you said then that you would correct the unorthographies. And we criticised you six months ago and told you that with your bill you would not solve any problems. Today we are confirmed. It is high time, then, that the government decided to formulate an effective policy on an issue that is not explosive today because the flows are explosive, but it is explosive to the situation that your own policy has created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis. Immigration Policy Minister Vitsas has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u30	Mr Varvitsiotis, during all my government service, either at the Ministry of Defence or at the Ministry of Migration Policy, I have made a very great effort to discuss seriously with all the parties, at least the democratic arch, to exchange ideas and to provide you with information so that you can enjoy your policy. But most of the time I am faced with a politically improper opposition speech to the extent of the trivialisation of the debate. For example, I am referring to the statement you made a week ago that I refuse to come to the House to answer your question while the House knew, and you should know, that I was at the Council of Ministers meeting in Vienna. Why did you do that? I think that you should give, perhaps not here, some explanations. But, at the same time, while listening to the leader of your party, you do not seem to blame the government not for the legitimate opposition to criticism, but for the country itself, as was Mr Mitsotakis's report yesterday that Greece does not participate in the debate in Europe while we are not just at the centre of the debate, but our views and proposals deserve us. Of course they are not entitled by the Visegrad countries, they are not entitled by that far right-wing part of the PPE which follows the views of Mr Orban or Mr Salvini and goes by saying. We are entitled, because we put all three dimensions of immigration: both external and border management and redistribution in Europe. Do you participate in this? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have two proposals. I'm going to get to Moria, but I'm going to need some more time, Mr. President. One proposal is the armouring of the borders, which Mr Mitsotakis questioned at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in some way. That's how Mr. Mitsotakis answered. Clear! "In some way"! In this way, however, you are adopting the arguments and the agenda of the extreme right. This, if you do so for electoral, political reasons, will not favour you. It has also been proven in Italy, where the former Minister for the Interior did the same thing as the current Minister for the Interior. This has also made the situation politically difficult. You are also saying that your main proposal is the separation of refugees and immigrants. But you must go to the islands and tell them that this means, even if I adopt it, two centres. One center for people with a high refugee profile, the other center for people with low refugee profile. Will they accept it? Because since last year we have made a series of proposals much more - let me say - 'light', which they have not accepted. We are talking about border shielding, about managing them under international law and on the basis of the examination. Now we're going to the specifics. For Moria: Who first said that the situation in Moria is difficult and many times marginal? The Ministry of Migration Policy. And he said it in May, where there were too many difficulties, and he developed a specific programme. However, he said at the same time that we depend on the flows. What are the current flows on the Greek islands and Greece? Currently - until 31 August 2018 - the flows in Greece - on the islands and on the Evros - have already exceeded the flows of 2017. And I'll talk to you with certain evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u31	Minister, if you would be kind enough to shorten. The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u32	The entrances to the islands until 17 September 2018 are twenty-one thousand seven hundred thirty-seven. That's till September 17th. The outflows from the islands, that is, the completion of the examination and inland transport, are seventeen thousand five hundred sixty-three, with great difficulty in returning. But because you know about Greece's agreement with Germany, do you know what it has done for Germany? Two! Two people have been returned from Germany! So I'm telling you that our biggest problem is this. Normally you will ask me this: What are you doing to deal with this thing? I told you that if you took the outflows, you will see that we have exceeded the number - and by three thousand - of the people on the islands at the end of 2018. What do we do, though? I will say it very quickly and let time be short of my denology. First, a group of experts, but also officials of the Ministry, is on the islands. Secondly, we are already moving towards the greatest, if possible, cooperation with the police forces to multiply the returns, which, as I said, are the most difficult thing facing all the countries of Europe. Thirdly, special asylum groups are going to the pre-repeal centres of the islands, with a view to speeding up the procedures. Fourthly, we are already in such close cooperation - which Mr Avramopoulos stressed yesterday - with the Commission in order to have all - the aid on the one hand that we want experts on the other. It's not just the question of money. I will answer the second question about the money you are making, of course, the mistake of addressing the question to the Ministry of Migration Policy, and you should know that the money is managed by the Ministry of Economics. We found the ways in which in the next period and after we have created within this period ten thousand new accommodation places in the hinterland, we can get from Mytilini, from Moria, another three thousand people, because we want to normalise the situation, so that we can manage it even better, even though we have reactions from minority local communities. And I'm telling you - and I'm ending with it, for the time being - your policy. Today, a pan-European survey on refugees is published and how the people of Europe accept them. You will see that it is a overwhelming majority of those who say that international law should be applied. A vast majority, and indeed in countries such as - of course - is not a majority right now - in Hungary. It says 54% they don't want 46% that they want. So study these. I'm not telling you to be a pain in the effort that we're making and which we're going to make to dismantle the islands, I'm telling you to make criticism, because you know that the MAN even calls for a bad review, just to get self-improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. Mr. Varvitsiotis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, the serious debate, the serious debate, as the Minister said, is also through parliamentary control. Here I have 12 unanswered questions from the Ministry of Migration Policy. If you want, I can testify to you, to see how the serious conversation takes place. And it's not just you. No other Ministry gives information on the management of the funds. None! You demand to inform the opposition and the Greek people. In the way you have answered, you have essentially said one thing: I am happy about my policy, I am proud of my policy, my policy is capable of dealing with the problems. You are the third Minister for Migration Policy of this government. In the term of office of this government, several general secretaries have resigned from the Ministry, several directors of the First Reception Service. The officials of the Ministry report you daily, the staff of the First Reception Service report to you every day, the North Aegean Regional Authority considers that it is inappropriate for Moria that you have not even been able by the Ministry of Health to provide an elementary service to the hospital and medical needs of hot spots. The people of Samos have now been uprooted and they collect signatures for the removal of the hot spot and you come here and tell us that "all good I do and we have plans and we will deal with them very nicely". You are presenting the situation as explosive, but the evidence is disgusting to you. This summer, which is the period of major influx, you had 20% less arrivals than last year. They were ten thousand five hundred compared to twelve and a half thousand last year. There are no other excuses to say that while I have 1,6 billion euros, I cannot deal with the problem of living in human conditions in tens of thousands of people in Moria. And because we are clearly accusing you of opacity, I will remind you of just one thing: you have not yet connected Moria to the Lesbos waste water pipeline, and as a result, every month, a local company is paid to come cleansing thousands of places. You have spent over 5-6 million euros there, while the connection costs do not exceed 350,000, according to your own announcements, when you were at the Ministry of Defence. I would like to say to you, Minister, something and to say to all the tons and to all of them: and the refugees, whom we are currently insulting human dignity, and to the immigrants, whom we have given the impression that Greece is a clear vine and whoever will enter and, once and for all, does not go back and does not go back and, of course, to the citizens and Europe, but above all to Greece and the Greek islands. I mean, soon the images of shame will be past. And it will be past with your government that created these images. We will finish these images, because we have this tripartite, which we are serving: first, guarding borders, which you have not exploited a single euro of the hundreds that you have at your disposal for the supply of equipment around border guarding. Not even one! You haven't bought anything in this. Secondly, the separation of refugees and immigrants, because the law, the universal values, force us to accommodate the refugees, does not force us to accept the illegal immigrants who enter our country in order to stay here or find another door for Europe. Thirdly, direct returns to Turkey. Direct! Unfortunately, your balance sheet and that is sad. Some dozens this year, if I am not mistaken about the two hundred in total, when we have, as you said, accepted close to the twenty thousand from Turkey. This shows, then, the scale of incompetence, inefficiency and, above all, the lack of real interest in dealing with and the humanitarian problem that your Government has created, but also the living problem that the citizens of the northern Aegean feel.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis. We call on the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Vitsa, to take the floor for three minutes for his second.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Varvichiotis, I don't know where you find the evidence, but, as I have seen from your question, you're doing a creative numerology. So, whenever it's any interest to you, you take the evidence with Evros and, whenever it doesn't interest you, leave the evidence from Evros. 50% of asylum seekers came in the summer and the number is almost twice as high as last year in the summer months. Secondly, you are talking about opacity, when the Commission itself says that we have done all the necessary checks and all the necessary checks and the ministries and the managing authority are getting it perfectly. Plus, I'll give you a fat image. From regular funding we have a total of 566 million by 2020. Of these 566 million have already certified expenditure in 35%, i.e. about 200 million, more than that, and we are still in 2018, in essence in 2016 and 2017 and in 2020. From the emergency funding - let us call it the 'Mr Stylianides' fund, where Mr Stylianides is headed - the funds were 570 million for the refugee - immigration. The 388 million of this money, which is 68%, have been allocated to non-State organisations, in fact to the High Commissioner and to the International Immigration Organisation - here you must clearly say whether you think that these international organisations, with their partners, are the ones who say they are doing so with opaqueness - and 182 million to state bodies that are based on the extraordinary funding received by the Ministry of National Defence, to set up over forty hospitality centres and now in Greece there are thirty-four hosting centres, of which twenty-eight are from very good to excellent. I'll be the last to say the situation is good on the islands. I'm the first person to say the situation isn't good. As far as the opposition is concerned, however, I would like to ask you - and look at your questions - what were you asking when Idomen was not here? What did you ask about Piraeus? What did you ask about the Greek? What were you asking about Patras a while ago? You repeat yourself without self-confidence and you do not help - I do not expect it, although I would like it - to face a difficult situation. I put this to the Europeans: what if this goes on and we have an explosion in Idlib, when Mr Erdogan says: 'I don't take others and I will start pushing in that direction'? Should there not be a process of assistance, European solutions and redistribution in Europe? That's our policy. Your policy is Mr Kurkle's policy, who said: 'I will put down the army'. He said so at the Council of Ministers, and Germany and France and said: 'Excuse me, with what constitutional right, with a European right?' Much more, how do you think this will happen at the sea borders? We say an examination based on international law. Humanity has reached some level. So that's the thing. Overpopulation wants to manage space and time. And the millions we get from the Commission - because that must be said, because I read on the Internet some smart people who say that we are ruining the state budget - that is to say, we are getting it from the European Union. And as far as control and bureaucratic procedures are concerned, we're getting excellent. Last: Yesterday, it was published in "GENERAL" - I imagine you know it - that the loan of 63,000 was approved for maintenance, feeding, etc. Mostly in the islands. Inside this, basic and first work is the work of Moria's biological cleansing, where 68,000 to 70,000 will go by self-management of the MOKA. The project will start immediately. If you tell me this was too late, you'll find me an ally. I am the man who has said ten times 'at last, this Moria project!' because there are bureaucratic procedures. Finally, you mentioned what you will do when you become a government. You know, the Spartans in Philippo, who told them "if I catch you, I will make you..." said, "If!" So, what are you saying? Are you telling us we're going to have a new Igoumenitsa? Will we have a new Patra? Are we going to have a new Panteleimon? Are we going to have a new Dragonian? For, I beg your pardon, but this is what we had in your own administration. Will we have five hundred and sixty thousand immigrants, who came not only from your own governance, but also from PASOK, all those years that we are currently making procedures for people having papers? If this is the case, we won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the debate on the last time question, I would like to inform the Department that the fifth, No. 43/13-9-2018, topical question by MP Aetolokarannia of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on: "Problems in the functioning of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Amphikia", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, as it is in Crete for service reasons. Also, the seventh question by Member Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "There has been an involvement of the US in the dark question?", will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. We move on to the debate on the latest topical question today, namely the second under No 48/17-9-2018, the topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgiou - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "It extends the irreversible policy of the Government in the field of insurance and new categories of our fellow citizens". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that the area in the Halkidiki mines has been afflicted very, very much by the world, who worked in these activities under unhealthy conditions, in the tunnels, under dangerous conditions. At some point - ten, fifteen years ago - this company went bankrupt and stayed on the streets hundreds, if not thousands, of workers. The state then shared and introduced retraining programmes, since there was no possibility of other jobs being employed. Their object was completely different and the mining activity in Greece has retreated drastically. So the relevant Ministry has enabled retraining and retraining to take part in projects with local bodies so that they can continue to provide work, even at local level, or specialise in other directions and, at the same time, not to lose their insurance rights. They have thus been able to maintain rights to provide health services, but even to retire until their normal retirement, since the majority of these workers are subject to the heavy and unhealthy regulation, due to the nature of their work. Things have evolved relatively smoothly, with legislative, of course, recurring, until 2013, so there has now been an arrangement with the title: 'Security settlement of former workers in the TVX HELLAS' - is the company I am referring to - with retroactive power. As we read in the relevant IKA circular, they were subsequently vindicated and retroactively for full-security rights, in accordance with specific provisions. That's where things go well. However, I have information - and that is why I ask the question - that the local branch of EVKA in the region does not recognize these known five hundred days which were given to former employees of TVX HELLAS, because of their participation in the retraining programme - five years had lasted for this programme - which also gave full pension rights. In this sense - and I can say this - we already have the first rejection of a mother's pension request, because the ECA does not recognise the thousands of five hundred and is left only to those who have been employed in the company. It also withdraws the decision to grant a temporary pension and requests that the benefits granted in the form of a temporary pension be refund. This has, of course, created a particular concern for those whose demands for an old age pension are pending. After that, I want the Minister's answers to these two questions, Minister. The first question is: why is the practice to be interrupted so far that they have full insurance rights to participate in the retraining programme and the ECA is now coming and says that this was only for the health sector? That's what the document says, they're not recognized. The second question is: What are these people and their families who have taken a period of two, three or five years - I do not know how much the procedure is to grant definitive pensions - and it comes and says 'will you return them to me'? You can understand that it will, if that is the case, charge a sum through the Funds and the Public Revenues Code, which leads, furthermore, even to property and bill seizures. I look forward to the answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Carras. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos will respond. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Karras, nothing has changed from the current regulations laid down by No 2874/2000, which refers to the cases of retraining and the acquisition of qualifications for the unemployed. It is a programme maintained by the LEADER and OAED. Furthermore, nothing has changed from the provisions of Law 3220/2004, which specifically provided for this operation of the mines of Halkidiki. For the implementation of that programme the Prefecture of Halkidiki and the local municipalities of Arnaia and the other municipalities were in the area. These were the performers, in a way, who applied the relevant arrangements, so that those people who have been unemployed at that time can have insurance cover. From 2004 to 2013, which you - I think it is until 2014, not in 2013, but, anyway - are nine years that have passed and these people have not been covered, despite the provision of that law, for their insurance rights. So it came then, finally, the legislator and he said with the bankrupt account that exists with the OAED and with the OAED to automatically take the money through this process. Therefore, with all the guarantees of this finding and cross-checking, everyone who had such a right to cover up to a thousand and a half marks, if they were missing, was covered to have a pension right. Since you are also legal, 15 years is the minimum time that is a precondition for the insured to have the right to retire. And that's the law. Every other day more than she is not insured for pension. Retraining and retraining in the programmes concerned only provides for health and accidents - just - but especially for the regulation you are talking about, this has been respected. For those who had to fill out a thousand five hundred marks to cover the minimum of fifteen thousand marks, it was observed. There is no chance that it will be rejected for another reason. Possibly because health and accidents are not covered for an insurance period, there is such a case as you tell me. The answer from the local store of EFKA and the former IKA there in the area is that there is no such case that someone was asked to return money from such a reason. That's the answer. Please, I'd like to have it. If there's really been a mistake, it'll be corrected. But the institutional framework is what I analysed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u41	I do not disagree with the institution. I disagree with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u42	Good. If there's been a mistake, it'll be corrected. In view of the Ministry, this is not the case. You have put the question as you have asked, I reply as you have heard, in the legal procedure. These are planned and respected and still respected by the ECA. There is no possibility that someone should be asked to reimburse contributions to pensions that they have received under legal conditions. I would like to see this and check it further, if there is indeed a mistake, because it will be a mistake and not a political one and, as you say, a lot more analgesic, for people who have left for so many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u43	For these people it is so collected.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u44	That's how the previous governments cared about. From 2004 to 2014 they had them with a law, which was not applicable.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your prototype. Mr. Carras has the floor for his dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I will not disagree on the legal issue. I will only make one comment. I also present the IKA circular for information in 2013, which implements the previous laws. It also has a history, a historical regression, which states that in 2010 these workers were subsequently and retroactively fully insured, not only - in accordance with the provisions of Law 3867/2010. We are talking about these workers. Then, because I do not know whether or not there is full information, I have here - I will submit - a decision of the regional branch of the ECA, which reads as follows: "The time allocated to the retraining programme of the former employee in “TVX HELLAS” cannot be taken into account for the establishment of a pension right for a reduced pension." These are said this year, on 2-7-2018. At the same time, in the same decision, the Director's decision to grant a provisional pension shall be revoked and the request for a definitive pension shall be rejected. They shall be charged to the detriment of the sums collected as unpaid, under the 2014 Director’s decision to grant a provisional pension, and the recovery of those amounts shall be ordered. There is therefore an issue of unjustified claim, Minister. That's what this decision says. So the last thing I want to say to the Minister and Parliament in general is that these well-known five hundred days, which are in addition to those granted to work in the mine company, have been recognised by full pension rights decisions. So I read: 'We recognize the insured person', etc. ‘... a thousand five-and-a-half days of insurance for the period 2005 to 2010, which was retraining, as an insurance time at the IKA and the EIB as a former employee of the company “TVX HELLAS” in the branches of the BAREA-ASH pension, etc., because they are considered to be heavy. It is therefore a real situation that was created in favour of a worker. However, as far as I am concerned, there are others in the same category who are pending the payment of a temporary pension and have not yet been decided whether or not to receive a full pension. If, then, this policy is implemented, Minister, and it is only recognised for the health sector, as you said, by the information you have, the thousands of five hundred - firstly, they would not have been the subject of it, if it were only for the health sector, and all the acts that concern the pensions and pensions sectors - you can understand that I am rightly referring to the fact that insurance rights are limited. I will put it before you and I will ask you and your services to study it, because I fear that an injustice is taking place, which I will not say is appropriate, if any - I do not have such evidence to say exactly what has happened - but is therefore unfair. Because I will repeat this: tomorrow, under the Public Income Collection Code, they will tell these people, who are unemployed for years and are now old, bring me EUR 5 000, 10,000, EUR 20,000 unpaid. Do they have them? If they have, I don't know, but I think they didn't, when they went to the state's insurance and when they lost their jobs and stayed out for so many years, because they were unable to deal with somewhere else. Minerals are most. We all know the state of mine in Greece and how the largest companies, which have not been reopened, have been closed for many years. So I put these before you, Minister, for your information.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Carras. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, will be closed with his dentures. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Carras, if you notice, I was very detailed in my answer. According to the law itself, which is not the law of our own government, they were covered for insurance, in terms of insurance times, up to four and a half thousand marks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u49	It was a thousand and a half hundred plus four and a half thousand alcohols.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u50	It's been a thousand and a half times the cover of four and a half thousand characters, which is for fifteen years. Fifteen years is the minimum, in order to qualify for a full pension. So whoever was missing up to a thousand and a half times of badges, these marks were supplemented through the training programme, even though there was no work. There was a law specializing in this company. It's not for other cases that cover. Up to a thousand and a half times the sum. In other cases of early retirement, as is, for example, a mother with a minor, who wants five and a half thousand brands and not four and a half thousand brands, are not covered by these marks, so she can go to five and a half thousand and get pension earlier. The 2004 Act is very clear. It does not give room for additional years, beyond a thousand five hundred insurance days, if four and a half thousand marks are filled. Look at the law and you'll understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u51	I've seen him.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u52	Then you'll agree with what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u53	But look at the documents too, to understand what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u54	Therefore, Mr Carras, because you are talking about justice and you have also given a title of'reflecting' to our own behaviour, you accept that we have complied with the laws that were before, in an absolute way, as defined in the relevant provisions. And he says that law: “Any different time covers only health and accident.” So don't confuse them...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u55	The next five years...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u56	Beyond four and a half in total. When a total of four and a half is completed, the other time that the training may be extended shall be the time covered only for health and accident. That's the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u57	That's where I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u58	Well, if that's the way it is, what do we do? What are you asking me? Should I multiply them and give them more on my own? You can't do that. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u59	I won't say any more. Look at the documents and you'll get answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u60	Of course I'll see, but that's the answer. Perhaps this is a case of an early retirement scheme that wants more than one, and you're asking instead of four and a half to make it five and a half. That's not what the 2004 law says.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u61	That's our difference, a thousand five hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u62	No, it's not our difference. That's the truth. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u63	Don't blame us, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u64	All right, Mr. Carras, all right. What can we do now? I think I answered very convincingly. That's what the law says, four and a half is the maximum. He doesn't add a badge for any more. The 2004 provision did not increase the pension, ensuring minimum assistance for the unemployed, so that they could get the minimum pension. If he said "give it up", he would not say "cover it for health and for an accident only", he would say "as much as it goes". I mean, if he had four and a half thousand feelings then, he wouldn't take anything. If he had completed four and a half thousand equivalents and on top of that unemployed man in the company, he would not receive one sign of a thousand five hundred for that reason, for pension insurance. He only got cover for accident and health. So don't insist. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u65	I'll insist. You didn't answer me for the return, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u66	Have you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u67	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u68	Good, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. We have been interrupting for a few minutes and we are coming back on the agenda for the legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Donation Convention between the Foundation “S. Niarchos” and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the field of health". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 17 September 2018 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles, amendments and all. Does the Department agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u70	The department agreed. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Andreas Michaelides, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law concerns the ratification of the contract signed on 6-9-2018 between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which concerns the upgrading of the structures of the ESS and health services in general in our country. It sets out a clear and definite framework within which this great donation takes place and defines the rights and obligations of each side. It clearly describes how the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will operate, with a view to carrying out a series of projects and the role of the promoter of these projects. The Convention fully ensures that projects are carried out and that legality is fully respected, i.e. that the relevant regulatory framework in force in the country is implemented. At the end of the day the works are delivered - after their completion - to the Greek State in full prestige and ownership, i.e. they are delivered exclusively and owned by their end-user, who is the Greek people, to every person in need of assistance, just as characteristic features of the contract are mentioned. Let me also point out that, as the relevant ministers stressed in the previous debate on the draft law in the Committee on Social Affairs, the projects that will be carried out with this donation are projects which are part of the more general government's planning to upgrade our country's health structures, and in no case do they constitute fragmentary and opportune practices, which we have been used to many times for good reasons in recent years. These features, ladies and gentlemen, clearly differentiate this donation from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation from other, similar type, donations we have in the past. I consider this point to be useful, because some colleagues have attempted to ideologicalize - let me speak - the current draft law in the debate prior to the Committee on Social Affairs in this House. Let me mention the projects under this contract, such as the design, construction and equipment of the new Komotini General Hospital. This is a flagship work for Thrace, but also for the wider region. I also want to refer to the design, construction and equipment of the Thessaloniki Children's Hospital, a unit whose importance is self-evident for the specific subject and the area, as well as to the design, construction and equipment of a building to be built in Athens in areas of the “Evangelism” Hospital, in order to serve as a home for the Department of Nursing of the School of Health Sciences of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. I also mention the supply and installation of medical equipment to the Organic Unit of the General Hospital of "Advertising" as this project is detailed in the annex to the draft law, which has been submitted to us. There is also provision for the supply of new equipment, as well as for the maintenance of an existing capacity and efficiency of the EAFRD aerospace facilities, the supply and installation of special medical PET equipment - positron emitter - as well as the creation of a radiopharmaceutical production unit in selected public nursing establishments in the country. The funding of the formulation and implementation of educational programmes relating to intra-society infections and the treatment of the injury in the country, as well as any other related, incidental or or even autonomous additional work that was agreed as an additional donation under this Convention with the Greek State, as referred to in Chapter 8 of the project description, is also mentioned. The amount of the contract is estimated at approximately EUR 200-250 million. The works after completion will be delivered to the Greek State for the use of any person who needs care. A special contract setting out the conditions for its implementation is to be concluded for each individual project. For the implementation of these projects, a separate legal person of a specific purpose will be set up by the institution and will finance its operation in order to ensure the uninterrupted implementation of the projects. After the completion and donation of the projects, each one of them will, as I said before, come to the exclusive ownership of the public, which will also have full responsibility for its management, operation and maintenance. The implementation of the projects will be carried out entirely at the expense and with the care of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, without any financial burden on the Greek State or the provision of any kind of financial consideration on its part. In particular, for the implementation of the project on the supply of medical equipment of the ‘Advertising’ Hospital, the relevant conditions are specified by the individual contract, which is attached as an annex to the draft law. The conditions for the implementation of each of the remaining projects will be specified by the individual contracts on the basis of the maturity schedules of each project. Let me make a few references to the contract between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. All the tax arrangements provided for in the contract are for the implementing entity and under no circumstances for the Stavros Niarchos Foundation itself. The implementing entity to be established shall be a legal entity governed by private law and shall be under the supervision of the relevant region through the General Commercial Register, in which it shall also necessarily be indicated. The Greek State shall grant spaces for the implementation of the individual projects in accordance with the conditions laid down in the individual contracts. The Greek State will provide all possible assistance for the early start of works and their rapid and smooth development, provided the legal conditions for each case are met. And here these regulations concern the public sector, the wider public sector and the first and second grade TAs. The responsible local archaeological services should be undertaken for the relatively rapid continuation of projects and ensure the protection of antiquities. The Greek State undertakes to maintain these structures, their transport support, their connection to existing networks and their security. Confirmation of the completion of the projects by the Greek State shall be carried out by the competent authorities by means of an precise procedure to be laid down in the individual contracts. The relevant body, after delivery and receipt of the project, will become an absolute master and prefect of the project and will have the obligation of the proper maintenance of the project, making available for this purpose all necessary financial means, as well as the planned human resources. The general contract also provides for the reasons for the conclusion of that contract, as well as its outcome. It is also laid down that the contract is governed by the Greek State, while it is defined that possible disputes are resolved by arbitration. Allow me, too, to make a few comments on the statutes of the project implementation agency. A special purpose vehicle shall be established under the name ‘Health Initiative S.A.’. It is of common interest to build these projects. Its location is the Municipality of Athens. Its duration is firstly 15 years, with an initial share capital of EUR 100,000, which is of course expected to increase thereafter. Its Board of Directors shall be the General Assembly and among the responsibilities of the General Assembly shall be the election of a Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall be three-membered to seven-members with a three-year term of office and shall not receive compensation. The composition of the first board of directors is also clearly defined. Finally, as regards the donation contract for medical equipment at the ‘Advertising’ Hospital, we should say that the hospital ensures that the appropriate conditions are created for the reception of the equipment, which, after its supply, remains the exclusive ownership of the hospital and is used exclusively for its needs. The cost of this project is EUR 8.5 million. This work also has a timetable for the implementation of the two years. The Greek State is, of course, responsible for the operation, storage and maintenance of this material. Ladies and gentlemen, the contract that we are now called upon to ratify with the Department's meeting lays down a clear framework for the implementation of a large and important donation to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which will upgrade our country's health services. At the same time, in my opinion, the public interest in the interests of the Greek people is absolutely guaranteed. As such a contract, I invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Gerasios Yakoumatos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, having a long term term term of office in the Greek Parliament, I can assure you of the reactions that each donation has encountered to the Greek public. Unfortunately, the Left in Greece thought it was her duty to oppose any such move so far. Unfortunately, you do not understand that every donation, apart from the benefit of the public interest, has jobs and is a profit for the Greek society. Even today, however, you have brought this convention - and you have done well - you do not miss the opportunity to make your 'rubies' here too. You did not allow the bill to be passed three days from the vote, and while we were discussing in committee, you did not have any pretext and you appointed Mrs Connordos as the new President. Well done, you are fast because it did not belong to the remodeling, it had to be 'at some point' and we put it here, Mrs Konordos. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek state has, historically, succeeded and relied on large donations which have operated as a reference point. I will remind you of the Zappeion, the Kallimmarmaro, the thorny "AVEROF" which has been linked to great victories of the Greek army. These are few of the projects, little left by the national benefactors. But also in the neural area of health there are little donations. How did Andreas Congregation Hospital become? How did the Announcement become? Children's Hospitals today? There are donations. The Stavros Niarchos Foundation is one of the world's largest private charities and provides donations to non-profit organizations in the fields of art, culture, education, health and sport and social protection. Since 1996 the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation has, listen, over EUR 2.6 billion in donations to twenty-four states around the world. Its purpose is to contribute with the means available to improve the lives of the less privileged, and that is where its donations are aimed and to support actions that can bring about a positive overtime change in society. The offer, success and recognition of the institution also reflect the life of Stavros Niarchus, a life full of business successes, with universal recognition worldwide, with opening of business routes and yet a successful path. Well, that is the Greece that we want, a Greece that actually has high expectations and high motives for creation. This is the positive pattern of leverage and evolution. It is very important that this contract between the Social Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" and the Greek State provides for the construction of eight large hospitals. And, for the greatness, how much the Greek society needs today from this mess of hospitals this donation! Very much. There is an urgent need. The project and donation budget is 200,000 to 250,000, 000 million euros. It'll give you a new breath. It will improve this handful health we have today, its structures. But what seemed to me, and I have to say congratulations again, is the geographical area, such as Rhodope. This hospital is very important. It is important to stress that this Convention is the most binding text between the public institutions and the Greek State. In the summer that passed us with the regulation of donations to public sector bodies, Article 55, it was regulated that contracts for the supply of goods, services or works, concluded between public-private bodies, are regulated exclusively by the relevant regulation - a contract. That's important. If we could proceed with this in the investments relating to the public interest, which have a public advantage in this process, it would be for the benefit of the State and for the benefit of employment. Therefore, this Convention is a decisive binding text between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. This sentence, I will not tire you, is made up of the preamble, which describes eight hospital works and twenty more. In addition, four annexes are attached at the end of the contract which form an integral part of the contract, which you have read. We have the Memorandum of Cooperation, the Statute of the public limited company, a health initiative that will implement the projects, a certification authority and donation contracts for the work of the "Advertising". Design and construction of hospitals, such as the General Hospital of Komotini. Design, construction and equipment of Thessaloniki's new "Paids" Hospital. That's necessary! Design, construction and equipment of a building, which will be held in Athens, where the buildings of twenty brothers and sisters of nurses are today in the area of the General Hospital of "Evangelism", ocular hospital and not at the end of the day. Gifts and offers that are important for the health of the Greek people. Supply of new equipment, as well as maintenance of existing capacity, without the Greek State offering a single euro. That's important. Of course, I want to make a comment here. I do not believe that these projects will have the fate of other projects that the government is building and remain without working. Because this is where you need personal, you need to start and work. I don't think they'll stay after donating the unclaimed. It's very important that you notice. I will not tell you any details according to which tax reliefs are provided, etc. What I'm going to tell you is that you need to ensure adequately with qualified staff and not with party parties these projects. Procurement of sufficient quantities of consumables so that we do not have the shortages of gauze and papis in hospitals. This is necessary and you need to be careful about it. Finally, it is clarified that any disputes will be resolved by the method of arbitration in London. Something reminds me of this 'London', what you did as an Opposition, how many pavements you have taken, how many plates and stones you have thrown. London Law. Well, in English, which, of course, shows the relationship between the institution and the Greek public. The New Democracy will vote in favour. Consequently, the ratification of a donation contract of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State for the enhancement and upgrading of the health sector, we consider that it is of paramount importance for the period that we are going through, especially now, and consider that it substantially strengthens public health. I would now like to say a few words about the amendments. In fact, 'principal wage'. What a hypocrisy, what a horror! I'll remind you what you did to Law 4172. You voted against, cast stones, stoned us, for the law of Giannis Vroutzis in 2013. And that's not enough, you came out after you voted against and won the 751 Thessaloniki PD. The Communist Party of Greece is now reminding you. Really, so hypocrisy? And what are you doing today? Instead of bringing the principle of consultation on January 1, 2017, as the law said, you bring it to the end of 2018. You're not consistent either there. And what's the result? That today the procedures that will last for four to five months are under way. You will have abstained and planned this bill and this year. How's the growth going to be? The Minister must take into account when signing after the consultations where the Greek economy is, what is the country's development prospects, what is the unemployment rate, incomes? All of this is summed up, to see whether we are going to give an increase and whether the Minister signs, despite the consultations. Is it an increase in the minimum wage, or is it hypocrisy and mocking? You wanted to raise a wage? Say 650, don't say 751 of you fooled. Say 640, say something! Nothing. You refer to Law 4172. Be well. How much you mock people will understand when the election time comes to the polls. Let's go to the second amendment. I don't know if it's happened to you. It's happened to me with the forgiveness of Vegelio, my mother. Ambulance is on the way, man is dying, he needs an intensive unit, and he gets a signal from hospitals with telephone communication that there is no intensive unit. They're all full. What's the ambulance doing? He doesn't take him to a private position. But the other one's dying. There's no blank bed in the public hospital. What are you doing? You're leaving him and dying or paying? You pay for it in your sensitivity. What's the tragicst thing? It is not only the PASOK colleagues who tabled the amendment. There's something else. If it needs to be hospitalized - and it needs to be hospitalized - in ICUs and it does not exist in the public hospital, necessarily so that it does not die, it takes the man, whether by private or other means of transport, to the state hospital. Do you know how much it costs for five to six days an intensive unit? Over ten thousand. Where would the poor farmer pay from the Trikala, Mr. Congressman? Where's he gonna pay it from? The state has not undertaken to pay these costs when people have to go there. These are the social benefits you need to make. These are the issues that touch Greek society. Here you are fleeing and coming to sell a bubble with an increase in the minimum wage, which the workers will not see during your days. I wish I would go outside, but not a single euro will take on hypocrisy and a lie that governs this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u74	It is known to the Department that the list of speakers has been closed. Mr. Karras, special speaker of the Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, we seem to be returning to the era of great donors, and I do not know whether it is pleasant or not. Of course, it is always gratifying when a donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and its object, which is about public health, is offered to the Greek society, but it is not pleasant when the private initiative in periods that recognizes the difficulty of the country, because at the moment the donation certainly covers needs which the Greek state should have guaranteed. But it doesn't matter in itself. Significantly, Greece continues to give its tradition to the great donors, continues what started from liberation, when large Greeks have now come and laid the foundations of education, health - we remind the hospitals, we remind the schools of Congress, and we remember too much - for the country to move forward. Of course, the use of donations is not always excellent. Many times the donors were forgotten and the one they delivered. In this particular case, this convention, which we are discussing, gives a boost to the health sector of Greece, because it covers real needs which exist and should have already been met by the state. However, from its structure the convention, because little - very much all of our colleagues know it, shows that it will be implemented. And why would he be executed? Because it is not left to the discretion of the public. It undertakes to proceed and there are commitments of the Greek State, so that the donors can actually function and be useful, whether they are hospitals, whether they are technology or medical equipment. That's where I want to note something. The Greek public - and reasonably - assumes the obligation, the responsibility to serve, function and provide the new structures with consumables. But we do not want it to be at the expense of the existing ones. As I have said in the Committee on Social Affairs, we think it is useful that there should be an establishment plan for the staff involved, if possible, so as to respect the terms of the grant, not to rush away from the point of view of seconding, transferring or using other structures to cover the terms of the contract. So I think that, beyond the contract, the Greek state is under an obligation to proceed quickly to the creation of the organogram and the body that will ensure that young people are not degraded beyond the existing structures. There we will have consequences both for public health and for the provision of health services to the Greek people. Of course, the contract, from what we understand from its terms, guarantees the donor and makes sense. But it also expresses a suspicion which I can say concerns me. I often see a suspicion and a lack of confidence in the services that the Greek state can provide. It says, therefore, that by way of derogation, with the exception of all provisions relating to supplies, works, provision of public services, etc. And here we have to make a comparison. These provisions are luxurious. Indeed, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government recently brought a public procurement law. Well, then, the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation says they will not apply to this contract. So should we also see a new legislation in this direction, so that we can release other healthy forces that exist in Greece to lead to growth or stay in the trivialities of the well-known objections, objections, commissions, complaints that only succeed is that we never carry out a project as good as the intentions, however good it may be? It is a question of thinking. There is a second issue again in the same convention, which I understand only for the reason of delays in time. It's the suspicion to the Greek judicial system. Because disputes from the contract are being directed to the international chamber of commerce, so that they can be resolved by arbitration with Greek law - I do not question this - since the clause is express, but they will be resolved outside Greece and by an organisation which has another object. It has as its object the trade disputes. Are we giving a meaning of a trade dispute to that contract? It's not a trade dispute. It's a public contract to provide a donation to the state. So I also take this as a point of view in the sense that the big donors, as well as the smaller, express reservations about the delays in the judiciary. I do not want to refer to the particular terms either the contractual terms of the memorandum or their annexes, because they are quite well known to the Members and to the society. He's been dealing with this, he's asked for information from what I know because donation is interesting, he's considered useful and valuable. But I'll say something else. In the health sector, and in particular in public health, we have recently seen a discount. We hope, however, that the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will also be strengthened. But there is a major question that has dealt with my mind. We now find that large private hospitals - and Attica - are currently under the jurisdiction of banks and are sold in public auctions. Of course, since they had entered into loans, no one will say that they should be deleted. However, we see that there are no safety barriers for both maintaining a high level of health services and for the competition that will be reduced. And I'll explain why I'm saying that. We have the example in the last semester of three large private hospitals in Athens - and I can name them - is Metropolitan in Faliro, it is the 'IOO General' on Mediterranean Avenue, and it is the 'Health' days ago - through accelerating bank to be in the same investment capital. They will therefore, at least, maintain a single policy on the services they offer and create a competition deficit in the health services sector. There is a concentration in this area at the moment, and the need is: high-level services, low tariffs, so that the EEAS can also meet its obligations to operate. So that is something I have not heard so far. I do not wish to say any more on this point. I would like to stay here, however, in relation to the contract, that it also has realism, because the projects and services proposed for implementation are necessary, they have a sufficient spread in the geographical area of Greece, so as to meet needs - such as the Paediatrics of Thessaloniki or in the sensitive Thrace, the Komotini Hospital, which will replace the old 'Sismanoglio', which I do not know in what state it is today - and in relation to the new technology it offers. What is of course worth discussing is this: this convention should be not only under the control of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation - at least during construction and the first stage of operation - but also, as well as the terms of supervision of the donor for the operation and staffing or even the supply of consumables or the maintenance of medical equipment, there should be a wider supervision, in the sense of evaluation, so that we are not confined to a contractual relationship between the Greek public and the donor. In fact, I note that, even in the report by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, what is well known, is that, however much as a contract is ratified in the relationship between a donor and a public authority, even though it is still characterised by a public contract, it has conditions which are private and which will be resolved by the courts, political potential. It therefore leaves a wider margin of thought for the reason that we should also have wider social control. We will not question the quality or the necessity of donation, but on the way then when we reach the end of the contract, or when we have come to other conventions, often we do not have the value that is given - and that is why I am also talking about social control. But don't let me get too far on this. These are issues which will arise in the course of its implementation. Of course, we have said that we will not deny our vote. It is good for the contract and for the annexes as they are given, because we must also welcome such initiatives, such as this one, as we have welcomed other initiatives, which are useful to the people and the country. So we have also tabled an amendment relating to the text of the Convention, since it also refers to the ESDP crossings - and of course it refers to the aerospace - on a major issue that has been raised. We have tabled it with my two medical colleagues in the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Barriotta and Mr Gregoraco. On the basis of this amendment, when there is no bed available in a public hospital intensive care facility, and when the transfer made by the NSAID finds that it does not exist, it should be possible to transfer the person with the need for the bed and a private clinic with an intensive treatment unit, which is also consistent with the EEAS. So time will be earned. It is very important that the profit of transport time, because we hear, see, we have examples that they wait hours to locate a unit or find the money many times for the patient who has to give the deposit to the private hospital and is even charged with the transfer. We therefore have to accept the amendment which we propose to accept that the patient may be transferred when there is no public bed available, and in a private clinic which has contracted with the EEA intangible and not only intangible, but that the time that is valuable to the health of a person who needs to be treated in an intensive care unit should also be earned. There you understand that the seconds also play a crucial role. I see a lot of fellow doctors present today who know the subject better than I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Xydakis, did you say you knew? I imagine you have medical knowledge. I also have the amendment from the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, which has not yet been developed by the Minister. We expect him to come and listen to the details, because as he does, we think that we will not object first. There should be a process in 2018, not only for 2019, but we want to discuss the issue of delays, such as because something similar has not come to Parliament since 1-1-2017 or why the previous law has not been implemented but also to discuss critical issues such as the three-year period. Are they in here? We also want to discuss issues such as those of national collective agreements. We want to hear whether we will stay in this regulation or whether the functioning of national collective agreements and the consultation and negotiation of national collective agreements, which are the ones that can really protect workers, will also be promoted. Because we leave it again to the Minister and to the committees which are from the Ministry or from the Minister appointed, we often cannot say that social and labour policy will be pursued. We therefore expect the Minister to listen to this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u77	The Minister will come and you will hear it. MEP Leonidas Gregorakos requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 20 September to 26 September 2018. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u78	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law ratifys the contract between Stavros Niarchos Foundation (Stavros Niarchos) and the Greek State for the support and upgrading of infrastructure in the health sector on 6 September 2018. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation takes over all the implementation costs, which is estimated at around EUR 250 million and concerns various projects which are referred to in the donation contract. These are projects that are important and have to do with hospitals and with structures in Athens, Thessaloniki and Komotini from design, equipment and construction of buildings, from medical equipment, from funding of health education programmes, up to equipment for aerospace facilities in the EKA. It is hoped that during the time we are living, with the acute economic and social crisis, there are still donations to the Greek public. In this respect, we have the specific donation for the enhancement and upgrading of health infrastructure in favour and of the ‘Advertising’ Hospital. The practical reinforcement of public health by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is an example to be imitated by Mr. Tsipras at the ceremony at the Maximos Concert for the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Hellenic Republic and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the donation of the sum that I mentioned above, touches 250 million euros in order to enhance public health. But here, as I told you in the committees, it seems that times really change. It is worth going back to time and specifically, Minister, in 2014, when SYRIZA, as I had said in committee, did not vote in the committee responsible for the donation contract between the First Health Region of Attica, the General Oncology Hospital of Kifisia "The Saints Anargyroi" and the Association of Friends of the General Oncology Hospital of Kifisia "The Saints Anargyroi". Recall that the purpose of the club's donation was to build and operate a patient's hostel, with its own exclusively expenses on a plot inside the hospital. The donation amount was then EUR 2,300,000 and was part of the amount allocated to the donor club by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. But now, SYRIZA is a government. It puts aside the ideological issues which the committee had at that time been told at the time that such donations are welcome, but these are issues which, in a favoured state, cannot be regulated by the market, much more when it comes to caring for vulnerable groups. Now obviously, because of the circumstances, it is a good thing for the market, as it helps the state with its health policy obviously cannot solve problems. Left hypocrisy is known throughout her majesty. However, it is a different matter. As you know, there have been donations to other hospitals, treatment units, etc., and it is gratifying that such initiatives can operate hospitals but also other structures, of course do not like some. The question is that health structures can be strengthened and supported by the state. But even donations should be able to be supported by the state. What is the point, of course, of donating an intensive care unit when there is no staff who will have to serve it? What's the point in making supermodern surgery when there's not going to be consumables when there's no doctors and nurses. In this Convention too, the public will have to take action because, as I mentioned in the committee, what is the point of building, surgery, equipment if the public does not do what is imposed. In order not to end up with donations developing into a gift, there should be similar budgets from the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, however, budgets are only for refugees and illegal immigrants. Following the tactics of George Papandreou's well-known saying "liquids exist", SYRIZA - ANEL ensures that it repeats and does so, not for the Greek people, not for the employees, the pensioners, the unemployed, but for the illegal immigrants and the dance of the new recruits that this entails. Therefore, your Government is promoting a mammoth programme of EUR 50 million for the health care of refugees and illegal immigrants. However, there are also the thousands of six hundred recruits which show rather an election perfume, I would say. On the pretext of the tragic conditions of living and hygiene in the hot spots of the country, on 6 September you received a common ministerial framework for a new action and recruitment of a thousand five hundred and seventy-seven-six people for two years. With the joint ministerial decision, therefore, as I said before, the Ministry of Finance, Health, Economic and Development and Administrative Reconstruction will be allocated the sum of EUR 50 million to ensure public health and to meet the health needs of refugees, as I said before. The expenditure of EUR 50 million, according to this joint ministerial decision, will be included in the Public Investment Programme and will be covered by its national and co-financed part. Of this amount, according to the decision, EUR 46,751,400 will be allocated to staff, while for consumables expenditure more than EUR 1,000,000 is expected, in the category of other expenditure, the budget is again EUR 1,000 000. The implementation time for this action is two years, i.e. until the beginning of September 2020. It is clear from what has been said that the only development that can happen in the era of the ethnicist "first time of the Left Government" is in what is directly or indirectly related to the refugee - illegal immigration. For the unrelated Greek people, unfortunately, there is no money. But above all, there must be something you cannot do at all. There should be a national plan for the health of the Greeks. Otherwise, those donations for health and to be made - and they are rightly made - will have absolutely no practical effect, resulting in problems in public health and care going on. The Golden Dawn will vote 'at present' in this ratification. However, we have one reservation, which has also been mentioned in the committee, about the amounts it will need to maintain all of this. There has been no economic study. We look forward to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Our vote in the bill - a convention expresses the criticism of the government's responsibilities, which, in its policy for pluralism, cuts public health benefits, increases recompense and payments to health services, medicines, examinations and so on, thus contributing to the right of patients to necessary public health units being presented as an offer by those who condemn the people to impoverishment. On the other hand, our vote expresses our criticism of the fact that under the terms of the contract the institution is given an indirect right of control and intervention in the fields of donation. As we have said in committee, we are not opposed to measures that improve the benefits, conditions of care, early diagnosis and treatment of patients, our people. However, public health services, their development and their absolute and universal exploitation by the people, in our view, cannot depend on charity, volunteering and individual supply. It is a popular right and a state responsibility, resulting from the nature that these services must have, as well as from the fact that the workers and other people's strata are the ones producing wealth. Just such measures should be the sole responsibility of the State, fully financed by the State budget, managed by permanent full-time and full-time staff, ensure adequate and modern medical equipment and be part of the pan-Hellenicly developed public health system, so that in time, safely and completely free of charge, all preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic actions are provided to those in need, without conditions and conditions. At the same time, any bids shall be made available by ancillary and complementary means. Faced with the well-known argument that "the State has no money", "there is the crisis" or as it was heard in the Committee by the Minister that "we could not have such units due to budgets", the reality is that, in the period of increased growth in the past, the state and capital, with all its governments, were underfunding the public health system, did not develop the necessary infrastructure, took measures to cut public benefits, and patients paid much more. All this is now speeding up, multiplying, because steam-engine growth in business groups is in complete contrast to popular social needs. And if something proves and what workers should think, it is that the state - this capitalist state - never has money for the needs of the people, not in the phase of capitalist development or in the phase of the capitalist economic crisis. For it is a political choice to support big business, either through tax exemptions, tax reliefs or by giving warm money, to ensure their high profitability in both phases. After all, the money that the institution will make available is, in fact, a very small part of the profits, a drop in the ocean, resulting from the wild exploitation of workers, from their unpaid working time, which generates profits. Because what workers produce, and much more what they are prevented from producing because of capitalist property, reaches for the development of a public, modern, universal and free health system. However, like all previous governments, the Government is making use of these agreements and of the deeper ideological influence of workers: firstly, it is necessary to cultivate the human face of the system of capitalism and exploitation in the territory of the people's serious problems. Secondly, to reconcile workers with the perception that, as well as the profitability of entrepreneurs, it can also be left with no "peak". Thirdly, that workers become addicted to the concept of social services and benefits not as a right but as a charity. And, as the anti-grass attack of capital is intensified, for the benefit of entrepreneurs, the more the dramatic reduction of state and employers' health spending - welfare and business action is promoted, the more the healthist charities and initiatives will appear, and not just. And this is because donations are the alibi and the exchange of capitalists to continue and increase the exploitation of workers, to provide for popular needs. And, of course, in these capital, businessmen, it also buttons the government's plan, which they have confidence in - and they do not hide it - after the government has been certified as a modern-day washing machine for business groups and their state. This content and pursuit, moreover, also had the position of Prime Minister in IDH, Thessaloniki, stating the great thanks for the institution's contribution. And it is precisely in the service of the designs and interests of business groups that the public hospitals and health centres which have been built are increasingly strengthening their business and commercial characteristics and that those which will be built will be operating in this scheme, that the entire Eastern Attica, for example, has some half-functioning health centres and not a public hospital, that public health units are subordinated and steadily increasing the number of health units that are changing between unemployment and cheap temporary work, or that decades now Thessaloniki is without a pediatric hospital or that 4,000,000 per year are going for naval costs in order to participate in the land where there is no more than one euro in popular health? How is it that all these business groups consider the cause of war even demanding an elementary increase in wages, shape working and living conditions on terms of the past decades and, on the other hand, appear as great benefactors in favour of the people, in fact, to provide a minimum of profits from the work of workers, so as to ensure multiple profits by seeking the integration and so-called'social peace'? It is precisely the cultivation of this image that is an essential need for capital to mislead workers and in this direction the government and other urban parties. All together, they are hampering workers' emancipation. They summarise the fact that with their own extermination work workers produce the huge wealth and scientific knowledge that monopolies are stealing every day. Thus, with foreign collisions, they represent the generous ones and all together are trying to prevent the great danger, the organization of the struggle of workers who will claim all this wealth and the means they produce it, overthrowing the political and economic power of the monopolies. And if that is the obvious aspect - which is not hidden - it remains to be seen in the future and the other, the unscrupulous sides - and we repeat it from this Step, as we have said in the committee - this manifestation of love which is not only explained by the institution's own contribution. This is why we have asked questions at least - and we have tabled our opinion to the committee - about what is provided for in Articles 15 to 17 of the Convention, according to which the institution enjoys the right to control all the essential aspects of the operation of projects with the provision of penalties, even with the repayment of the sums allocated. It is understandable to seek to ensure the proper functioning of the projects and the purpose for which the donation money was made available. What, however, will happen in the case - in any case, in any case, unbelievable with the experience that exists - where the public, to which the full ownership of the works will be delivered, for whatever reason, does not finance or manage hospitals adequately? On the basis of this contract, this can be an opportunity either to repay the money or if the State is unable to repay it, to find a solution by granting the hospitals to private individuals, if it is or can be made profitable. This is an additional element that confirms our position that the development of public health units must be a full and exclusive responsibility of the State, without any involvement directly or indirectly of the private sector. The situation, which prevails in the public hospitals in the country, which strengthen their business activities, which reduce staff, which are underfunded by the State, and which are called upon to survive by selling their services directly to the patients or to the state-run insurance funds, also gives answers to the questions we have asked and to the committee - of course we have not received - to ensure that these hospitals are fully and adequately funded by the State budget, whether they will be recruited by permanent staff of all specialities, whether they will ensure that they are adequate in materials and medicines that are needed by the patients, whether they will be fully free of charge to everyone. This is why, with regard to the exchanges of capitalists and the attempted consecration of anti-grassroots politics as an act of social solidarity of government and other urban parties, workers must and must strengthen their struggle, their resistance to anti-grass measures, to organise their counter-response that will change political correlations, with a strong JV, for radical changes, for a development path where means of production are social property with central planning, labour control and real solidarity. On this path of development, all modern and growing people's needs can be met and health, welfare, medicine, poverty, tolerance and, at the same time, charity can be strengthened. In fact, as we have said in committee, Mr President, our vote on this convention, in the draft law, will be 'the present'. You will give me a little time to say a few words about the amendment, even though the Minister or someone else from the Ministry has not. They haven't developed it, but it doesn't bother us to place ourselves. With this amendment on the minimum wage, the government is implementing for the first time the New Democracy - PASOK, the well-known Brutsis Act. It triggers an emblematic memorandum law that permanently abolishes collective bargaining to set minimum wages. The scale of the fraud of government propaganda has been clearly revealed throughout the past period for the reintroduction of collective bargaining, for exiting from the memoranda and for other things we have heard. So, after maintaining the horrendous 2012 cabinet act, which culminated in the minimum wage of 22% - for young people under twenty-five years - the government is now coming and at bait to the possible increase in the minimum for a few euros, possibly, is energising in the Memorandum of the Nea Democrat Republic and PASOK, on the basis of which the minimum wage will be fixed permanently by a decision of the civil state, the government, without collective negotiations and on the basis of the basic criterion of ensuring, as is stated, competitiveness and productivity, that is to say, on the basis of the needs of capital and monopolies. In no case is this amendment, this measure, to recover losses. With this measure much more than the potential increase, i.e. any 'false' of the minimum wage, will be eliminated by more than the already voted-out tax reduction. Indeed, in addition to the good expectations, however, the Government sends the message to the people not to ask for much, at the same time that in monopolies it shares reductions in taxes and insurance contributions with privatisations and any kind of arrangements and facilities to achieve their profitability. After all - if you would like, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to raise the minimum wage, accept the amendment of the Communist Party of Greece that comes to the footstep of your own amendment, of course, and speaks of restoring the minimum wage to EUR 751 and abolishing all the anti-territorial provisions of the Brutsi Act, the Ministerial Council Act and other provisions. So here's Rhodes, gentlemen of the government! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I want to see otherwise the subject of this donation. I would like to remind you that no businessman anywhere on the planet, in any part of the world, gives 200 to 250 million - so much is the amount of the total offer - if the credibility of the system in which it is provided is not guaranteed. And I have two examples. One of the richest people on the planet, Mr. Warren Buffet, second after Bill Gates, said that "I don't invest in corruption countries." And he really doesn't invest. It selects countries where corruption is either zero or minimum. Secondly, Bill Gates - whom no one will blame - has been unfairly enriched, at all, I believe that he is pioneering what he did and well earned the money and really does terrible donations - nowhere has he given money to unreliable agencies in unreliable countries. So manual proof that something has changed in the health field is this donation. That's how I see it. I'm not monopolizing the truth, that's my sense. First of all, I have one particular thing. Because in the "Evangelism", I worked for over thirty-five years, I know what the four-five of the institution's four-five offers mean in my opinion, a bigger state hospital in the country. We are all very happy to accept them and do not enter any other kind of logic. I would just like to highlight two points of this donation, in order to understand that, after each project has been donated, each of them will come to the exclusive ownership and responsibility of the Greek State. So, to get to know. Well, there's a dependency. And the implementation of the projects will take place with the exclusive cost and care of the institution, without any financial compensation paid by the Greek State. And because I listened, I want to believe not wrongly but a little critically called "you who were blaming the private sector", I would like to ask: isn't that the government you're going to operate on a difficult operation only with your AMKA? We're talking about two and a half million uninsured people who couldn't pay their contributions. Because they couldn't pay their contributions, we'll find it. Because the country went bankrupt. Because people couldn't pay and stay out. Were they supposed to stay out? Oh, no. That was two and a half million! As for TOMY, there are two ministers here who have experienced them, they have done them, and I think it is somewhat overreacting for me to put this up. I think they're more competent to tell. Nevertheless, I want to take the time to remind you of two or three more things. I read in the last few days about this strange ban at the 'ERT1' or the government at a particular station. I don't want to get into the bottom of this story. I think you'll be judged who's right and who's wrong. I would like, however, to say here that there is not a single reason - because not having them well with a journalist is your inalienable right - to exclude the state channel in general and vaguely because you think or may be right. If a reporter did anything wrong, he blocked this reporter. I'd say the same for the private channel, if you'd like me, because I want to be objective. It is, I believe, a tightening so that we can all be more together. But I have one example, and I want to say it. Recently we heard an investigation. In fact, those who were at the Prime Minister's press conference in Thessaloniki, three or four times we heard about the Matty - well, every journalist's right to bring it up - and so many others in the interview with the Honorary Chief of Staff. However, I would like to give an example. Recently we have heard from all private channels - I am not questioning it, and I am telling you very sincerely, I do not sauté it - the investigation by a Mr. Cololakis, who I believe is a good scientist, who has well done his research and investigated the causes of the fire in Matti again. The channels did well and they turned it up and re-enacted it. But there has never been a corresponding assessment of the National Observatory of Athens, which you know, its employees have not been appointed for the last two or three years, but have been appointed from an old appointment. I'm telling you this to get in touch with. This assessment, therefore, unlike that of Mr Cololakis, says the following and I would like to say it because it was not heard anywhere, was only heard in 'ERT1'. Successful evacuation must have four conditions: first, speed and time of the fire. This fire was at a hundred and twenty miles [20 km] in very bad conditions. An unprecedented number for such a fire, no one would ever catch up with it. The average speed is about sixty kilometers. Secondly, the temporal situation - says the Athens Observatory - in Eye with eighteen deadlocks, some small alleys going to the "blocks". No orgasms, then. Thirdly, there is no existence - says the Athens observatory - specified concentration points. There was no sign of anything inside the Matty. These have been for years. Fourth and last, for those who do not remember, the estimate is that within 30 minutes of the Marathon Avenue the fire reached the sea. Within 30 minutes! In order to order evacuation, it may not be given at the start of a fire, but shall be carried out in the procedure and following a risk assessment. These are not pleasing for or against, the assessments of this state service, which have been silenced. That's what they do and what the channels don't do, and if I have to, etc. But I would also like to come to another point, which has become a great deal of droit. I think the Minister will tell us in detail. But I would like to touch on another aspect: those who attended the speech of the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki heard that he made eleven specific announcements, one, two, three, four, five, six and eleven. I have noted here one of them, the ninth, which said: Increase in the minimum wage and abolition of the hunger wage - I do not use an expression that I do not think is grammarly correct - for people under twenty-five years of age. That was the ninth commitment of the Prime Minister. In fact, there were polls asking the world, and he said they were fine, but a large percentage thought they wouldn't be. So for those who haven't understood, we're starting now. I imagine the Minister will give the precise framework of how it will be done. It is therefore estimated that those who are under twenty-five years old will not only get an increase of EUR 20-25, but will take around EUR 100 - from EUR 511 to EUR 610. Then, it will be the case every February. There he will come to supplement the JRC proposal, which runs - well he does - his right - and he says all that increase to give it now. I would first like to say that it shows the seriousness of the Prime Minister's commitments that it is actually going on costly and now it says 20-25 euros. Since February, we'll get to what the JRC wants. I consider that to be a sign of credibility. That's my feeling. That's one, I say, from 11 meters. And for those who have not understood why they have doubts - there are many people saying "But will he do it?" - It's starting. The first is now, the ninth meter. I've noted it myself. I'll say something else. That thing no one could figure it out. Why are some people when they're at twenty-fifths getting a hunger payroll? Now, he's assimilated and done this thing. The Minister will tell you. And, above all, the contributions are subsidized. In other words, the businessman in the first year, in 2019, will put 50% and the next 100% of the subsidy. Is this or is it not a tangible proof, firstly, of unemployment, secondly, that others will not leave in this productive age, serving both sides? I believe that these announcements, which some doubt, are starting with this amendment today. I wanted to make that clear, because I hear a lot of remorse, that everyone now promises, and so on. I'm actually glad he says 20-25 euros. Yeah, that's the raise. She can now and in February we'll see exactly where the ball is going to sit! I don't want to say any more. I believe that the credibility of all of us is being tested in this Chamber. I am referring to these announcements - and the eleven that have been made, I do not want to mention them. For just one thing, I'll say the following. He's becoming an incredible dorm every day with pensions and tax free. So someone should be peculiar, under 60-70 in the intelligence index. We all know what will happen in one year, September - October or two or three months less. Is it possible to announce things you won't do? The other guy's gonna see it in his pocket. I say this because some poorly invested that pensions would be cut because they were signed. I have the freedom to talk. The Prime Minister and his ministers are doing well and they're tempered. They know that it is not a structural measure, they know that this measure was imposed by the IMF, because they did not expect us to catch 3.5%. That's where we get it, though. I know that there is a financial space and logic will prevail. I am therefore presenting myself, and I say this: not half of the euro will be cut off from any pension and we will not have to do either unilateral energy or defer the measure. The measure will be cancelled. That's because some people have invested - well or bad, we'll see - on the contrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Psariano has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. This is the ratification by the House of the contract signed between the Greek State and the public-benefited "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, which concerns the implementation of the Foundation's donation for a number of projects aimed at strengthening and upgrading health in Greece. It is undoubtedly a positive step and an absolutely positive move. It is very pleasant that the government is putting forward such a draft law and accepting an offer, a donation from an institution, of what we once described in a large area of the left as some capitalists, something of the majestic capital, as I said in the committee, which drinks the blood of the people with the bathtub. That was an established description for many years. I remember exactly ten years ago when the concession of the Faliros Delta at the "Norarch" Foundation, which was all of SYRIZA and a huge part of the Greek Left towards the concession of the Delta of Faliros to the "Stavros Niarchos". Today, we have seen the result. Anyone who goes to the "Stavros Niarchos" Cultural Center in Delta thinks he's going to another country. We have ensured a true cultural masterpiece and architectural and functional and in every way. Of course, with Mrs Conordou's position as President of the cultural institution, we will take care of the institution's breeze in general! It is very good that we decide and implement such private partnerships with the public sector. Once again, a large left region, when he heard PPP, thought it was some dirty stuff. It was like a heavy prey to public-private cooperation, and perhaps it is the only way a country can go. All civilised countries, with the exception of certain African countries, are on this road and implement such projects and take care of the private sector and the public sector in such a way. Here, we must say that it is good that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will monitor and take care of the operation, as is done with the cultural centre of the Delta of Faliros. We hope that this will also be done in the health sector. The draft shall be composed of two articles. We fully agree on every description of the project. There is no point in commenting on individual or proposing amendments that may not be needed because the contract is already signed by the institution and the Greek State. The donation of the Foundation is undoubtedly enormous and covers needs and functions in the field of health - as in the field of education, culture, justice, in all areas of operation of the Greek state and of the Greek state - which should normally have been due for many years, in some cases, for decades, to have covered, taken care of and implemented the Greek state. Let us not open up this debate now. It is good that there is this cooperation and intention. Maybe it's just from now on that there's such synergies going on. The General Hospital of Komotini is one of the oldest in the country. The building of the new building where the hospital will be relocated is a key project, since the current one accepts about a thousand visitors a month, serving a huge part of the inhabitants of eastern Macedonia and Thrace. For the creation of a children's hospital in Thessaloniki there is no doubt that it is a long need and a request for decades throughout northern Greece, not only in Thessaloniki and northern Greece, but even in Thessaly. Finally, the establishment of a pediatric hospital in Thessaloniki will be covered. For the cost of implementation, we would like to say a few things. Describes a sum of between 200 and 250 million euros and refers to a sum of only 8.5 million euros in the analyses for the Athens Ophthalmium, Polyclical of the General Hospital of Advertising. We would like to know what is going to happen and where there is complete transparency. We also hope that the foundation will take care of this, but before all else, the House will have an absolute transparency of how they will be placed, how these EUR 200 to EUR 250 million will be allocated. For the creation of the children's hospital in Thessaloniki, we must say that it does not appear anywhere where the foundation, the new hospital, is to be set up. In a press release of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation it is said that the study team in charge visited the plot, but we do not know where it is. We should know that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u86	In the minutes of the committee, there is an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u87	We want the answer here too. It would be a good thing, Minister. I wanted to say something about the assessment of the completion time, if there is a timetable for how long, when this work is expected to be completed in all three cases, both for Thessaloniki and for Komotini. The contract has also been signed. It is an end to synergy and cooperation. We have said that we cannot propose modifications. No changes can be made because the institution will cancel the contract. We need to know when it will be completed, how the funds will be distributed and how to wish, from now on, such synergies and cooperation between private sector bodies. It is full of the country, for the last hundred and eighty years, that we have been close to the two hundred, since the state, with institutions in the field of education, culture, health, public works carried out with large donations of Greeks, who have reinstated and reinvested large sums in the common interest and for the public benefit. This recipe is something we have to keep. And I hope that this space will be continuously reduced, an antiquated space of understanding that said that where individuals get involved and those who are interested - it is usually pronounced, without'm' - it is necessarily evil, cancer, curse or anything like that. For the amendments now. We have said that in amendments that come to bills, whether they be three or thirty-three, or fifty-three, when they come to bills, we will vote'residents'. As far as the amendments we have to put forward, we should bring them into a structured form, an organised draft law, into an organised debate in the House. We have seen incidents where we are discussing an issue of education and there are fifty-six amendments on all the other things that we want to take care of, make up or take care of. We shall vote'representations' in the amendments. Of course, to increase the minimum wage, we could say: why EUR 751? The minimum wage should go to 1,200 euros. Why didn't we do it two years ago and we're doing it now? Because the elections are coming closer? With this trick? If it is for this reason, it is coming quickly, quickly and quickly, because it means that we will also have a rapid election in which elections, if from now on SYRIZA is opposition again, I hope that it will not come out with black flags on the roads to large projects and I hope that it will not vote against and then abominably denounce PPPs or cooperation with the private sector or investment, which has so far been a consistent practice. I remember. Do you want me to mention all the projects that have been done? Whether they were public works or hospitals with offers and donations or concessions to institutions, they were always opposite, always voted against and always denounced after abomination. We hope in the future that it will be safer on these issues and if it can be on various other issues, it will be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u88	The Minister for Labour, Mrs Ahchioglu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an important moment for the world of work and our Government, because today we are taking an important step towards implementing the top-level commitment that we have made to the large social majority. This commitment was no more than an increase in the income available, an increase in the wages of workers. The strengthening of workers' available income and the increase in wages of employees throughout the country is the central political aim of this government. And the aim of this is to serve in two ways: Firstly, by reintroducing collective negotiations in the country, which since August 2018 has been a reality. We strongly insisted on this reintroduction, precisely because it is the basic mechanism whereby workers can claim and achieve better wages and working conditions. And today this is evidenced in practice, as a few days after the net exit from the programme, which this government has achieved, we have extended seven sectoral collective agreements, covering about two hundred thousand employees throughout the country, which means a direct increase in wages for tens of thousands of workers in the country. At the same time, we are implementing our top commitment to increasing workers' available incomes and strengthening their salaries through the step we are taking today by speeding up the process of increasing the minimum wage. The new single minimum wage will be introduced by this government in January 2019, a minimum wage, which was cut in 2012, with a choice of the then coexistence of the New Democracy and the PASOK over one night by 22% and by 32% for young people. At the same time, with the choice of the then confrontation of the New Democracy and the PASOK, collective bargaining in the country has been 'freezed', effectively prohibiting workers from claiming and achieving better wages and working conditions. These two peaks with dramatic social consequences were made at the time, because they were just serving a perception that said that growth could return to the country only on the basis of the crash of work. These two disastrous social choices, apart from automatically shrinking the workers' available income in one night, at the same time eroded unemployment in the precarious 27.9% we saw about mid-2013. In contrast to this conception of growth, our own government has said from the outset that growth can only come back through strengthening workers' available incomes, defending workers' interests, strengthening their negotiating power, shielding their rights. And that logic, this plan was also served within the Financial Adjustment Programme. Within the Financial Adjustment Programme we have served this objective at times by negotiating hard to maintain acquired rights, and at times by laying down rules and shielding rights that were not protected in practice, by laying down rules for the protection of workers from contractors, for the maintenance of hours, for the payment of overtime, rules for the payment of wages, rules for undeclared, undeclared, unpaid work, rules for the protection of workers' rights in the event of bankruptcy of businesses. We are doing so more intensively now that, after the net exit from the programme, we now have the political freedom to act more strongly in defence of the rights of the world of work. We are doing so by reintroducing the collective negotiations which, as I have already pointed out at the outset, means an automatic increase in wages for tens of thousands of workers in the country through the extension of sectoral collective labour agreements. We are doing so today with this step of activation and speeding up the process of increasing the minimum wage, which will lead us in January 2019 to the introduction of a new single-aided, increased minimum wage for all workers, without unfavourable age discrimination, without racist, age discrimination, which were also imposed on us with a choice of the then coexistence of the New Democracy and the PASOK, which introduced the so-called "substantiated wage", which today for reasons of regularity are being abolished. The new, therefore, standardised minimum wage will be introduced by that Government in January 2019. The exit from the Financial Adjustment Programme is a crucial point of historical importance for the country. Our aim is to prove in practice that the next day is better for the world of work. With this concern we continue, committed to improving the everyday life of the large social majority. With this concern we will prove in practice in practice that the exit from the memorandum was not only a symbolic energy, but it was a transition to a new period of rights recovery for the large social majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u90	Mr Cavalellas, a special speaker of the Centron Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, when will the debate be held on the amendment? I'm saying it's for the Minister to stay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u92	We must now finish with the special speakers and then the debate will follow. Here you go, Mr. Cavaldela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I have to complain about the exception. I think, of course, that there was no fraud, because you are an exemplary president, so we go further. So we are discussing today the bill that you bring in the form of ratification and, in fact, in the form of a deadline for judgement, debate and vote in the House, because it will be void within a few days. This is a contract between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which has the sum of EUR 250 million for the implementation of eight major projects in Athens, Thessaloniki and Komotini. However, from Greece, the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation contributes to a hundred and twenty-four countries in the world to the improvement of life, and this brings the flag of Greece to the ends of the world. So these works were said to be about Athens, Thessaloniki and Komotini. As far as Komotini is concerned, you have welcomed it, because where there are religious minorities that are neglected there is the imposition of Turkey through economic and other benefits, and it is important that we also show that we love our locusts. As far as Thessaloniki is concerned, you have welcomed it, of course, since it is also considered to be neglected because the metro is there and it ends. We now hope with the new announcement that the metro will work. As far as implementation is concerned, there is, of course, some distrust. This work sounds good. And who would not want projects to be carried out and, indeed, to be financed by a private person rather than by the Greek state? Greece needs these projects. They will support the economy and of course create jobs. But we have reasonable concerns - not just us, I am sure you, too, have concerns - about how this investment will be implemented. We do not know what will happen with the key positions, how these services will be provided. I hope that it will be done transparently, I hope the best will do. As far as the private sector is concerned, that is to say, the relationship between private individuals and a state, which is sometimes put on the left for ideological reasons, to say that we have so far heard that private individuals are bad people and drink people's blood. But now, as before, great benefactors with their presence and their offering gave them a hand in the difficult times of Greece. Now, then, we look forward to private individuals. A few years ago we were vertically opposed to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, with demonstrations and other popular events. I now come to the main issue. Contract details show that we are not trusted by the benefactors, not by your Government, nor by the subsequent governments. As shown in Article 15 and 17, there is a return clause for the money or the return of the project to private individuals. So it would be unreasonable for us to trust you, too. We don't trust any of you. We know the practice of governments and previous ones, nothing except. It would be a good thing if you brought this bill to the House, we had information on the basis of which to discuss. We see that from EUR 250 million there is a justification for the EUR 8.5 million and for the rest there is nothing. Also, you're talking about staffing will be chosen by the best. That or that they'll make right moves doesn't tell us anything. We also want economics to have access to staff. Not how we're gonna put our own people on it, but how it's going to happen. Clearly donations are good. For our country, it's a great case to have donors. But donors must feel a security. We are positive about the implementation of such projects. We want, however, before we vote - although I do not see this - to have some information, because otherwise we too will contribute to a possible vote - I do not say that there will definitely be a mismanagement. We're still vigilant. I declare'residents' on this bill. We want to vote because these works are needed by Greece. But we want to know what we are voting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u94	So do we. Mr. Theocharopoulos, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u95	I would like three minutes to put myself as a parliamentary representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, when will those who have asked for the floor speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u97	I propose that one or two parliamentary representatives speak now, then two speakers...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u98	Why don't we start with the speakers and join the circle later? That's how long we've been waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u99	Let's do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u100	Because she is the Minister here, I was thinking whether we should talk about the amendment in order to reach agreement. Should there be a debate on the amendment, why is it serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u101	The debate is a single one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, a very serious amendment has been tabled and is in public debate. We have tabled an amendment which we want to explain. I imagine there will be a special debate on the amendment, in which the Minister will be here. That makes it easier for us all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u103	The debate is a single one. You are a parliamentary representative. Would you now like to take the floor, despite the fact that colleagues are asking us to start with speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u104	Let two speakers at least speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u105	The first speaker, Mr Igoumenides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's amendment by the Ministry of Labour, in my view, puts the increase in minimum wages on a speeding-up basis. The process is intensified, starting directly, from this ten-day beginning today, in order to implement it in January 2019. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] I think that a clear message is given: Immediately after leaving the memorandum, the possibility of speeding up the process aimed at protecting the world of work, protecting the productive forces of the country is being exploited. This amendment to the extent that it corresponds to puts its stone in the effort to protect it. This development comes as a continuation of a series of arrangements against the wave of neoliberal deregulation of labour and the strengthening of workers' incomes. It comes after collective bargaining has been re-established, with the principle of more favourable regulation and the principle of the prolongation of collective agreements, as they have come back and apply after 21 August. It comes after the date of the extension of the sectoral collective agreement for hotel officials, namely the largest trade convention in force in the country, which covers a hundred and fourteen thousand workers for seven sectoral contracts and a total of two hundred thousand workers. We heard the Minister talk about this a little while ago. The message is clear: As in trying to get out of the memorials, in the center of our attention it was society and the effort to remain upright, so in the effort to build after the Greek memorials, the poor, the weak, the workers who have supported the course so far remain at the centre of our attention. The core of this design lies in the recovery of work. And a part of the recovery of work is today's amendment. Our aim is in the next five years to reduce unemployment to 10%. I believe that the process of raising the minimum wage should be accompanied by an increase in minimum wages and, at the same time, the abolition of the minimum wage and the discrimination of young workers. In the same direction are retrospectives for groups of workers, whether this concerns the decisions of the Council of State or concerns the decision of the Prime Minister and the Ministers for Health, in addition to the decisions of the Council of State, to restore an injustice from the second memorandum. Also, in my view, it is also the effort to improve the economic position of workers, as is the attempt to reduce HNVIA, the gradual reduction announced by the Prime Minister, as is the effort to reduce insurance contributions for scientists and young professionals. It's a lot of measures. I think that at the core of these measures there is a political message, beyond the real significant improvement in the position of workers. I have - and I would like to emphasise, ladies and gentlemen - the high symbolic message of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour today. Today that the well-known Cassandras "given their change" to destruction, it is clear that after the completion of our country's Financial Adjustment Program and after this cycle was closed, we are not giving a single inch of freedom to our lenders, we are not giving a single inch of freedom to the neoliberal block! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. Mr Brutsis has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Theocharopoulos and Mr. Pafilis will follow as Parliamentary Representatives and we will continue...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u109	But they've already asked for the floor. You'll be in line, too. The speakers will speak and then you will. In any case, there are few speakers. It's nine in total. They've already spoken two, and then we're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u110	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u111	Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by giving warm thanks to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, to the SYRIZA rapporteur, to the current Minister, Mr Ahtsioglou, who have today given me the honour to warmly applaud and support Mr 4172/2013 on minimum wages, a law that I will really agree with them, which is why I am here today - gives the starting point for increasing the minimum wage in a healthy way, in a way different from what has happened in the past, in a way that is modern and effective. I and New Democracy, in order to return to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, are here to support the government's amendment, we are here to vote on the minimum wage amendment. On the occasion of this debate, however, it will be good to restore for a moment the historical truth about how things have been, because the Minister alone gave the new mechanism the minimum wage and avoided talking about the substance of the mechanism and how it operates, but about the historic route of this law. Well, I'm explaining. Ladies and gentlemen, I was Minister of Labour. In 2013, within the framework of the fiscal adjustment and the difficulties of the country, we had to set up a new system whereby the minimum wage could be increased, but in terms of sound and modern, and not as it has been in the past, namely in terms of the need and without anyone knowing the procedure and the way in which the minimum wage was raised, because no one appreciated the real potential that the economy had. The most important economists say - and modern practices in Europe say so - that when you do this, you eventually lead things against workers. You're undermining them in the long run, because you're undermining the legs of the economy and entrepreneurship itself, and finally the victim is the worker himself. That was the decision on the minimum wage in our country for decades, without calculating the dynamics of the economy and the real financial data. Indeed, the new system, the new mechanism, now praised by SYRIZA, incorporates all these functions. The most crucial thing, apart from reintroducing the collective negotiations for which the social partners are returning to the debate, is the minimum wage level. Hold it. And I welcome SYRIZA's warm applause specifically for this point. The five most powerful institutions in the country, i.e. independent economic institutions, such as the Bank of Greece - undeniable prestige - KEPE, IOBE, INE GSE - had then put it in the law to put the element of the workers - the Greek Statistical Office (ELSTAT) come and decide, seeing the economic elements, what the minimum wage would be. Of course! Of course! I would remind you that when I had brought this law to the House on behalf of the government with a trunk of the New Democracy and support from the PASOK, "whoever saw God and did not fear him"! I'm sorry about the expression. Then SYRIZA screamed. They were calling from Syntagma Square about the anti-laborative law that comes to Parliament for the minimum wage. They shouted out of the House with protests, "Take back this abortion, because it is anti-laborative law and undermines the interests of the workers". And then SYRIZA, along with the ANELs - not to blame them - not only denounced it, but also voted against it and pledged that it would bring something else the next day that it would become a government and bring to the workers hypocritically, mocking them, mocking their intelligence, EUR 751 at a minimum wage. So here is how SYRIZA's times, ladies and gentlemen, are coming back, and today you are applauding the law you denounced yesterday. That's if you don't say hypocrisy, what else is it? However, because things are judged by the outcome, I and the New Democracy welcome it back to logic, responsibility, at least in this part. I would remind you, however, that the law of which we are voting today - because the law is voted on, Law No 4172/2013 - the change in the timetable, incorporated within another parameter of time, that the application of the threshold, for which SYRIZA now says what he says, would start after 1-1-2017. Why didn't it start after 1-1-2017? I'm answering, because I'm not going to get an answer. Because we had launched the country's exit from the memorandums since the end of 2016 and then we put it that 1-1-2017 will be able to relaunch the increase in the minimum wage in terms of sound, concrete and modern terms. Your responsibility for increasing the minimum wage, gentlemen of SYRIZA, has been delayed for two years! In any case, I would suggest to the Minister a legislative improvement. The social partners, because the law then called them, to put the Industrial Association of Northern Greece, which we recently made a social partner. This should be done by legislative improvement until the end of the process. I would also remind you, because I consider it particularly important, and what the Minister and SYRIZA say about the extension of sectoral agreements. Why are you talking? About something that has been in our country for decades? What are you? From another planet? The law is Law No. 1896/90. It is foreseen before the New Democracy, by other governments. There was institutionalized in our country, the extension of sectoral agreements. These simply had to be done after the end of the budget restrictions. And you come here today and say that this is an achievement? What accomplishment? It's hypocrisy. It's legitized stuff. And note this: Especially for the extension of sectoral contracts, I would remind you that it had been frozen, in fact, because of the memorandum with Law 4024/2011, but SYRIZA came with Law 4472/2017 and froze the extension again. And if you want us to put on the scale who did it the most, who froze the minimum wage? Four years, SYRIZA. Who did not facilitate the expansion of sectoral contracts? Since 2015 they would have been extended. Five years, SYRIZA. Do not, then, say of selfish things, privileged things, which are unscrupulous, false. We welcome you, then, and we, along with SYRIZA, are also praised for returning to reason and responsibility. The increase in the minimum wage is an achievement necessary for the workers, but it will now be made in terms that are realistic, responsible and sound, and not with those fantasies the old and irresponsibles that SYRIZA said beforehand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary I of Athens, New Democracy, Mrs Theodora (Dora) Bakoyannis, has requested permission from the Department and the Committees of the Greek Parliament from 24/9/2018 to 28/9/2018, due to its absence in New York, invited by the "Concordia". Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u114	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation Mr Theocharopoulos has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u115	First of all, Mr President, I shall speak a little about the amendment tabled by the Minister. We have tabled an amendment - addendum. And why am I saying 'Approximate - Addendum'? First of all, this 2013 legislation essentially concerned a period of time that has already elapsed for two years, without the government, as it should have done, to apply the minimum wage and wage adjustment procedure. We are therefore paying you delays at the moment, and there is therefore a need for regulation. We therefore propose - and we invite you to accept it - an integrated amendment, which reads as follows: First, the mechanism of determining minimum wages and wages by means of a government decision, but with specific deadlines up to 31-1-2019, to apply once. Secondly, following the first implementation of the process of setting basic wages and wages, responsibility rests with the social partners who, through the negotiations, sign a national collective labour agreement. Third, that subsection of Law 4254/14 should be abolished in order to provide for increases in service in the final determination of wage and salary based on the three-year period. Fourthly, the provision that the scope is limited to non-wage terms should be abolished. Fifthly, the provision on minimum and minimum wages should be abolished. The proposal we are making is complete. You normally have to accept it today. One of the things we are proposing, the mechanism for determining minimum wages to be applied once, you say so yourself. So we have no reason to disagree. We also agree with your amendment today, but we urge you to accept a more comprehensive approach to the issue. And we're telling you that if you don't accept it, we'll be here and we'll testify to it again as a proposal for a law. I have heard you, Minister, refer to a clear exit. I think that in the last few years Mr. Tsipras has no longer been mentioned on a purely exit. He's got it back, in the sense that he's realized that it's so hard, that's why he's talking about getting out of the memorials. He's a little changed his phrase. A little. She's changing her, of course, once she's brought back. So you said for a clean exit. Net exit from where? From the commitments? Of the primary surpluses of 3.5%? Where? From overtax? At the same time, you said that the work problems in our country are being solved. Do you know what the status of job insecurity is today on the labour market? When you had taken over the Ministry at a European Union summit, you spoke of the people in Greece who are paid at EUR 300 a month. That's right. That's how they get paid. That is why unemployment is falling. It is not a question of reducing the unemployment rate by increasing the forms of underemployment, flexible forms of work and at the moment giving the workers a three hundred. That is not the way to solve the problem. We want sustainable jobs, with a system that really gives this possibility. Of course, we also have the other hypocrisy regarding your Ministry, the hypocrisy of pensions. You have signed a measure of inappropriate, structural, rather than, in fact, real structural reforms in our country. And now, while you signed it, you come and say you want to abolish it. We first told you that this measure is unnecessarily necessary and that a tough negotiation is needed. And so do we when we speak abroad. We do not do what Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis do, who speak with the party language of an internal party audience abroad. We say, then, that it must change, but without new populism, with a plan and without the logic of Varoufakis, which will lead to the end - because we now see them being elected in the run-up to the vote - to adopt all the measures. There is, of course, your stress to bring the amendment forward. Of course, he has to come because he's delayed. I think anyone understands why you want to transfer this arrangement from summer to January. Because you have just decided that your government will not run out for four years. Therefore, what you want to do is Genarris to have a total account and where you are delaying two to three years, show that you are giving back. I am going to another point before moving on to some of the bill, but it was very important and it was turned into committees. I read from the Minutes what Mr. Paulakis said that you found a self-government old man, you exhumed him and said to you: "Let me tell you one thing. All that you see with the laws, procedures, claritys, decrees, approvals, ten levels, etc., you know what it is? They have built a castle, supposedly transparency, legality, honesty, control and there they eat them. And they have built this castle so that no one else enters." This devalued way to “GENERAL” for this progressive reform! I thought that at least two - three reforms in this country, such as the ESS, the ASA and the 'DENMARK', would have agreed here that this is really a sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u116	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u117	You don't know what you're saying, Mr. Polakis. Mr Tsipras is speaking with the Social Democrats today in the European Union. So enjoy this social-democratic policy within his own country. From you! Speaking in this way about the reforms of our country, the clarity and many other issues, or the address of a scientist of Cololakis, regardless of whether he did a good or bad job. Another issue, another one. And I ask you: That's politics? Is this nationalist policy at all levels the policy that wants to open on the centre-left? So clarity is the mirror of the rulership that is being exercised. If this image doesn't like you, take care of yourself instead of messing with the mirror. We will defend these progressive reforms. For some of these issues, I had not heard a criticism. On this point, to tell you the truth, I had not heard very much criticism and when you were opposition or I do not remember it. I'd heard a lot else, but not that. So please limit yourself to health issues, to which your government has a lot to apologize and leave these issues, which you do not treat in a progressive way, nor do I say democratically. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on the establishment of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation's Donation Convention on the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the health sector, a sector that is subtle, a sector affected by chronic pathogens, by the consequences of the economic crisis. After three years of governing the country by your government, we are in front of hospitals that sink on debts, on paper recruitment and many other issues. I have here a list of questions, some of which you have not answered to the Ministry of Health on matters of the Ministry of Health. We know we don't exercise a sterile opposition. Today, as we speak, we are also voting on the bill which comes with the amendment, with a timetable, on issues that we are telling you and we are proposing that they be added at the moment. However, this does not mean a lack of reservations, not only in terms of implementation, but mainly in terms of the aftermath of the projects. Minister, just two years ago we tabled a question on unexploited donations to the National Health System, including a donation of this Foundation of seven radiation therapists to an equal number of hospitals in the country. Then and for a very long time, while the matter had not been resolved - I have the question here - we have not received any answer. Could you at least tell us today why this donation has not been exploited or whether there has been, as we have learned in recent years, a development in relation to it? Because they were donations to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. All of this shows that the delays and shortcomings of the government lead to these donations being lost. That is also what today's bill is about. We have read recently about the donation of 12 radiation therapy machines to the Foundation after three years and while there was a delay of three years. Is this a new donation or an activation of the older one? In any case, we have a two-year delay which, meanwhile, patients have paid for with their health. Analogous topic was another topic, which is not about your Ministry, but the Stavros Niarchos Foundation - and we had asked a question - about the donation to the National Museum of Contemporary Art, which the Foundation finally withdrew, due to failure to comply with the timeline of the procedures and other prerequisites of the museum. It was 3 million euros. To Mr Baltas we had tabled the question at the time. Of course, the Ministry assured that such a risk did not exist. And yes, this donation is about another Ministry, but it is also indicative of the operation of your Greek system and government, which leaves unexploited donations in all areas. Because the museum may have submitted a new, validated application after years, but again it has been lost two years, and so on. Even though everything is going well in this donation, which of course we are positive, and it is being implemented. Increased concern is causing us the post-delivery stage, justified concern, since there have been many cases when the projects after their delivery have been abandoned or have been abandoned. We read about public obligations in Articles 14 and 15, including maintenance and operation obligations, the obligation to provide adequate funding, the management and operation of projects, the fullness of staff, education, competence - the state is currently committed - maintenance teams for installations, infrastructures and equipment. The Greek State's obligation includes ensuring adequate and qualified personnel for the project. The point is that none of this applies to the current situation beyond this donation. What are the guarantees of their existence in these works? Are there going to be all this for the donation projects, but also for the existing ones? Will there be any provision in the budget to increase health expenditure or will the cuts continue to come out of oversized surpluses, so nothing will change both in the new projects and in the existing situation? It is comforting, of course, that this Convention provides that the Foundation will select the scholars, proceed to the preparation of feasibility studies, and in the past grants have been withdrawn as a result of untimely training of the studies. The concern remains not by sterile criticism, but by awareness of the difficulties and will for creative and constructive dialogue. At the same time, it remains the fact that these insurance systems, which are correctly set, also indicate a state-of-the-art deficit here and a lack of confidence in it. At some point we should work together to restore citizens' confidence at all levels. You, after almost four years of governance, after a mass of mistakes that have denounced the economy, which have undermined the prospect of growth and social cohesion, remain arrogant, as I have shown you before the minutes of the committee with the statements of the Deputy Minister for Health. Not only do you not 'build', but you are trying to tear down the most transparent and democratic ones that have been established. Ladies and gentlemen, the health sector cannot be dealt with under purely accounting criteria by lenders, partners, government and the political system of the country, nor can it be left to donations only, however necessary and welcome. What is needed is sectoral and structural changes in order to address the timeless pathogens of the system. The national health system's major structural changes are the key. They are now the only way to avoid the continuation of the intense, multidimensional crisis in the country. It is not only an economic, it is also a social, it is a cultural crisis. We need a modern model of providing services, where a central objective is to improve the therapeutic efficiency, economic efficiency and equality in the provision of services. Unfortunately, as we see - and we continue to see it - you cannot do it at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has been speaking for twelve minutes. Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Katsotis will then speak and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic Mr Javarra. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u119	It must be held back in the sense of keeping its nerves from today's debate and from today's amendment brought by the government. After a communication "storm" all summer, today comes the historic day on which the government, he says, supporting the world of work, puts forward the recovery of its losses. Of course, in capitalists, others say both to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and to the Americans and to foreign investors, you say that "we are not going to move rum". All laws will be implemented by the Memorandums that you once said - hypocritically or truely - were serving these interests. What is the title of today's amendment? ‘Start a minimum wage configuration process’. Cordial. What's in practice? It is the application for the first time of the Vrutsi Memorandum Law, as it was called, namely the New Democracy - PASOK, and from now on it will be called the Brutsi - Ahtsoglou Law, by the names of the Ministers or rather the New Democracy Law - PASOK - SYRIZA - ANEL and others who support it. That's the reality. You seem to have envied the glory of Mr Brutsi and that of the government, which abolished the free negotiations, imposed those who are - supposedly - in favour of free negotiations, a ministerial decision to set the minimum wage with the act of the Ministerial Council in November, Brutsis in 2013 and one more. It is proof that the state is hard to class, it is urban and that the free state you say, and the New Democracy and the PASOK, which gives freedom of negotiation, and which is consistently served by SYRIZA today in this rail, in the end, even what he says keeps it, is hypocritical. We have 22% reduction in wages and 32% reduction in new workers. Such intervention has indeed not been made anywhere. How did this work? It has broken the hands of employers in general, which have imposed almost all sectors and all companies large reductions. So, what did SYRIZA say about the law that he is going to implement today? Pleasantis Tsakalotos, rapporteur: "We have expressed our opposition...", etc. So it says: "Let's see a very important point...", I'll say it later on about the criteria for the law, "... all these articles if you take them in a package, come out for what we said and said other colleagues. This bill has nothing to do with liberalism, nothing to do with social liberalism, it is extreme neoliberal, in extreme anti-democratic, authoritarian, and we must finish quickly." Mr Tsipras said, judging this article and more generally this decision: 'How else can anyone explain their demand for human sacrifices and of course, how else can one explain your own offer to carry out these sacrifices in order to maintain their own favor...' and meant tropical and capital markets, that is, as you say, why are you afraid of the word, '... to keep a little more in power, in your chairs?' Read it. It applies to you, too, to the law you bring him and apply him, and I say, in general, to the law itself. So what are you doing with him? Why don't you say it? "We are applying the Brutsi Act, except that it will start before the process, the law that we said it was carniole and everything else." Why don't you say that you're doing this and you're hiding and saying you're starting to pay the salary? Who is this law serving? Does he serve the workers? If you wanted to serve the workers, remove him, because he was a carnival and institutionalise 751, of course abolish the subordinate to return to where he started and let free, as you say, the negotiations, as free as they may be within capitalism, the association of forces and this view of the social partners. Yes, the shipowner and the sailor are partners, only one living in the myth and the chili and has all his problems solved and the other is swamped. The industrialist and worker are social partners in this society, they do not exploit the labour force. You have all adopted these for many years. So you give them tests, applying the law, and let it look different and the masks fell after the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. It appears that fraud, the supposed reintroduction of collective bargaining, has become permanently abolished. Is it true or is it a lie? What are you changing? Who will determine the minimum wage? The Minister. So, what collective negotiations? The minimum wage is also a guide to other collective bargaining and to other collective agreements. Do you keep it, yes or no? Who are you mocking, then, that you are abolishing collective bargaining? With your law, will you let us negotiate for the next period, through - as you say - with the social partners, we say through negotiations that will be conducted by the workers and employers? Oh, no! The Ministry will determine them. On what criteria will the Ministry determine them? With the Brutsi Act. What did Tsakalotus say - and was right to some extent - about the Brutsi Act and the criteria that are kept in full, please? He said: "The criteria to be taken into account for determining wages are marked cards...". As they say, "Go and pass me marked cards," like this. Euclid would say so if he knew. ‘There is talk only of productivity, prices, competitiveness, etc. No provision exists for criteria such as the poverty threshold or the minimum level of decent living.’ How, then, will you determine it by ministerial decision, after this monkey instrument created by the Brutsi Act, and where will you now apply it? How will you determine, on what criteria? On the basis of the requirements of the workers, the return of losses, the reintroduction or reintroduction of capital - because these conditions put their capital - competitiveness, wages, prices, etc.Huh? Who puts them on? Do the workers put them on? Workers are the victims of this story. Aren't you going to determine this, too? And it looks like you're going to fix it at the stunning, shocking sum of 20 euros. Shame on you, at least! Why -- he says -- the economy can't take it. Let it be 30 euros, that's how it goes. Let it be 50 euros that it won't be. So, here too, it is a deception of the workers and the Greek people themselves. It can't stand - it says - the economy. Really? How can you withstand and reduce insurance contributions? How can you stand and give billions to the investors who will come here and make growth? How can you withstand and give 2% of GDP for naval spending? How can you stand and have made Greece an American base and participate in all exercises, with ten grand for an hour of F16 flight? That's where all this can take place. For businessmen, the economy can withstand, but it cannot withstand these criteria for workers and workers. In fact, you are reintroducing collective negotiations. What's happened? Four years have you maintained or not the act of the Ministerial Council you said you would abolish it? And you said - I will not read them again - that 'this law is being abolished directly as soon as we go to the government'. Secondly, you have even reduced these wages even further, with increased taxes, characters, HISPIA, increased VAT and more. You have fooled - and you are kidding, that is what you were saying - when you said 'a gradual reinstatement to EUR 751' and 'free negotiation'. Are we lying? Let's see. Let's leave Thessaloniki. Draft law of Skourlet. What did he say? He said in 2016 the minimum wage will go to 650 euros and 751 euros in 2017, so that the market does not get shocked. Is it done? Oh, no. So, we're right? We do. And then, the reinstatement went after leaving the memorial in August 2018 and today comes this mockery, which is considered a reinstatement of the minimum wage. What can I say? Should I say shame? You don't have to. So now what's coming? There is a bait, with a possible increase - we do not know how much euros and how it will be fixed - after the troika approves you, so that we do not forget, after you have given and given bloody exchanges to co-operativeness, a reduction in insurance contributions, after you have reinstated them to miserable levels, with a government decision, the minimum wage. Only the digitized tax reduction will strip the workers and get a lot more than you say. This will also apply in 2020, but you say 'whoever remembers by 2020'. That was the great titanicism of the government and what it won during the summer in the tough negotiations with the troika! This was the amazing result, that is to say, applying the Brutsi Act, the New Democracy and the PASOK, which was what it was. Of course, what changes with the amendment to implement earlier is that the government wants - which is gracious now to the workers! - to give the workers a 20-year-old to go to the elections and take advantage of it. That's all it changed, nothing else. And that's not what you're saying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute. He also changed the part of the meeting on supervision. Where you ran to the hotels, now they're coming to your office, in your own space. And one question I want to ask. Does Mr. Pyatt agree with this bill? 'Cause lately he's got a reason for everything, everything - there's no that! - more than the ministers. There was no such thing in the post-election regime, of course, with Mr Piatt. That's why I'm saying, ask him. Did you get permission? Does he disagree and you should discuss it now? So if you think with such terraces you'll fool people and workers, you're making a big mistake. You're off night because the bill's coming. Because with these decisions you are taking, it will seem what the minimum comes back - what we are saying, that is, and it is the reality - and what freedom to conclude collective agreements may exist. What do the workers say? Once again - and the JRC's amendment says so - at EUR 751 without any age discrimination. Do it now, if it's not the way you say it and disagree. Why don't you do it? Also, full reintroduction of collective negotiations without tricks, as in the other bill you will bring. And we're waiting for it, because it'll be similar. Furthermore, full recovery of the strike right, full ban on all forms of retreat. These are the minimums, these are the minimum, because workers are entitled to others. Because now that the economy is dynamic and the spring is liberated, workers are invited to take a ten and a 20-year increase. And these will be taken back from another street, and the capitalists will not just become dimlyer - because they are - but they will gain intact amounts. And I'll be done. What are you asking us now? To explain here in the Chamber just for people to understand. Are you asking us to vote for the Brutsi Act, which we and you have voted against since 2018? That's what you're asking us to do in practice. And of course we're not going to. Of course now it is also revealing that the most famous separating line of progress and conservation - today we have also had applause from New Democracy, from PASOK and from all others - has become horizontal. What do I mean? Now we have a dividing line which is Brutsi - Ahchioglu. Only that doesn't separate, but it unites. We have a New Democracy law - PASOK - SYRIZA - ANEL separated by a dash and consolidated. Here, the big differences in progress and maintenance. The first step was the implementation of the "killer" law for workers, the Brutsi Act, as it was called. And higher! We'll see more, but in this trap we're not going to fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Ladies and gentlemen, an announcement to the Department. The Minister of Finance, the Deputy Minister of Finance - Minister of Economy and Development, the Ministers of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Minister of Economy and Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance and Economy and Development submitted a draft law on 20-9-2018: "I Central Repositories of Titles II) Adjustment of Greek Law to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/2258 and other provisions and III" Other provisions of the Ministry of Finance. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Ahtsoglou has the floor for three minutes to give some answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u121	To start with, I don't see him here, Mr. Brutsi. So Mr Brutsis said that he feels entitled today to the amendment proposed by the government, which will speed up the process of increasing the minimum wage. Every man has the right to feel the way he wants on the basis of what he fantasizes, who he thinks he wants. But that is, I think, about the world of psychology and it's not about reality. Because I do not understand how the executive of a party may feel justified, which reduced the minimum wage to a night by 22%. How he may feel justified in a party who has introduced the subordinate wage, which has abolished collective labour agreements and has effectively banned workers from being able to claim and achieve increases and better working conditions. I do not understand how anyone can feel justified when he has implemented such a disastrous treaty on labour rights and maintain it for as long as he is in the government. I do not understand how the member of a party who, as a government, has turned out to be entitled to unemployment at 27.9%. And how he may feel, especially today, that the opposing party, which is in the government today, has restored collective labour contracts, has already extended seven sectoral collective labour agreements covering two hundred thousand workers in the country, leading to increases in the wages of tens of thousands of workers, which today triggers the process and will increase the minimum wage, which has laid down rules for the maintenance of working hours, the payment of wages, the protection of workers from contractors. I don't understand exactly how one can feel right, but this, what he feels, maybe he's more in the field of psychoanalysis. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me some time, Mr President. But I have heard the other argument - and I have heard it on several occasions - of this particular deuterism that things would be like that, that would happen, that was, of course, that the collective agreements would come back, that the minimum wage would be increased anyway. SYRIZA didn't do anything that came to the government. If that were the case, why didn't you do it? Why didn't you do it while you were? Why did you not finish the programme at the end of 2014 - this is where Mr Brutsi changed his position - why did you not finish the second programme that you signed at the end of 2014, as he defined, and also increase the minimum wage, to restore collective agreements? Why, then, when we were negotiating for the reintroduction of collective bargaining, did you go out and say that these are left-wing ideas? Why didn't you say good to the government trying to restore collective agreements? I would therefore say that we should put aside the world of desires, which are not interested in the end - and no one - and this is a rather or very individual issue. And to call on Mr Brutsi to finally harmonize himself with the President of his party, who was free to say that 'we are against collective bargaining, that we want businesses to have flexibility'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u122	Who said that? When did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u123	Your party president very smartly...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u124	Aren't you ashamed? Did you hear the party president say these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u125	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u126	He can't lie here, and he's a Minister. She can't lie inconsistently.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u127	Don't shout. Lower. We've been listening to a bunch of shit all this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, you are not listening. You will have the floor to answer. Mr. Polakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u129	The President of your party, therefore, with great intelligence, said about the collective bargaining that companies should be able to deviate from what a collective agreement would lay down. Do you have a picture of the Greek economic reality? Do you have a picture that in small businesses, which is 99% of the Greek economy, there are no business unions, cannot workers claim better wages and working conditions, because they are two - three employees toward an employer? What, then, did the firms mean to deviate from the collective agreements? Didn't he mean that the collective agreements should not be mandatory? Do I get misinterpreted or is it not what he said? The man was clear and clear. And with the collective agreements he opposes, and he has said so, and during the negotiations with the institutions that these things are ideological, and with the minimum wage very clearly he said that we would go ahead with an increase if the BSE agreement were there. All the rest, therefore, concern the world of Mr Brutsi's desires, and he will do well to align himself with the President of his party, so that things are clearly seen now and the things that are found. As far as the Democratic Reconciliation is concerned, you're talking about some things like they've come from heaven, like they've fallen like a natural phenomenon. Were you or weren't you in the coup d'état which signed the 2012 Ministerial Council Act, which reduced the minimum wage by 22% over a night and made it 586? Were you or weren't you in the coup d'état which introduced the underpaid wage, which abolished the collective bargaining? Were you or weren't you in this conflict?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u130	Give it 22%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Comrade, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u132	If you wanted to raise the payroll, where today are you leaving me because I was delayed in making the wage increase, why didn't you do it while you were in the coup d'état? Why did you reduce his salary since, in your opinion, it should be increased?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u133	Why did you cut the pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Yakumato, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u135	So instead of apologizing and entering a period of practical self-criticism...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u136	You guys were forced to... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u137	There's an irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Yakumato, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u139	Instead of apologising and entering a period of self-criticism for the level at which you brought wages and employment rights, I think you are making regularization beforehand, but the political act is not deleted. You will allow me to say two words in connection with Mr. Pafile's placement from the JRC. You have the tendency - which we have discussed many times, as many times as I have had the opportunity to have this debate in Parliament - to reduce what this government does for labour. This is the permanent incubation of classifications within parliament. You tend to degrade what this government does for work and you are trying to identify us with New Democracy. But you know that no matter how rhetorical I do or you in here, there's a reality that can't be erased. The reality is that the present government has restored collective agreements. You doubted this would happen. You said it wasn't going to happen. You said we were lying that we were going to bring them back and I remember that very well. And today you know that seven sectoral collective agreements have been extended covering two hundred thousand workers and guaranteeing wage increases to tens of thousands of workers and that will continue in the next period. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] You know that it is the government that has laid strict rules on time. You know that at the moment at the big bank stores they leave a lot of mail to the workers who call them "empty the store 17.00" the time why the EIA is coming." And you know that because you're in the workplace. You know that this government protected workers' rights to contractors, brought them first to their demands in the event of bankruptcy of businesses. You know that these are really material steps that have been triggered by this government and you know that this government will increase the minimum wage and that it is this government that has reduced unemployment by seven percentage points. So you know that in practice this government has a clear line from New Democracy. What is happening, in my view, with this deception that you are doing - and I think you do not do it consciously - is that you undermine the opportunities that workers are given thanks to the tools that this government ensures, their ability to claim and achieve better wages and working conditions by exploiting the institutional framework that we define, their ability to claim and achieve more.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u140	Madam Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u141	You are undermining this, in my view, with the attitude you are taking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u142	Mr Koutsoukos has the floor, and then Mr Katsotis will be followed by the Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy and SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I have the pleasure and honour of succeeding in the Step by the honourable Minister, Mr Ahtsoglou, who has just argued why he is applying the memorials he has condemned. Because as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the arrangements that were passed during the memorandum period, when the country had 35 billion fiscal deficits and deficits in the trade balance, and were in front of bankruptcy, as it is known, had been denounced by the SYRIZA, by Mr Tsipras, personally, and had announced their abolition by a law and an article. In particular, on the issues dealt with by the honourable Minister, Mr Tsipras said that he would bring the minimum wage back to EUR 751 and abolish all the anti-competitive arrangements. And instead, we saw him accept them. However, we have not only seen this, but we have also had a period when, by a recommendation from the Minister, the lock out, which we had put as a veto in the period of convergence, has also made it very difficult for arbitration. I imagine that the Minister, who was addressing Mr. Brutsi earlier, is not so proud that part-time work is more than normal, that the average wage is close to EUR 320, nor is he today obliged to support the regulation of No 4172/2013, which then SYRIZA had condemned. However, what, according to the usual practice of the SYRIZA ministers, is happening today too. The government says half the truth. Because, if the government wanted, this minimum wage arrangement would have been implemented for two years, as the arrangement provided that its last deadline would be at the end of 2016, at the end of the previous programme. So the government has implemented a new three-year programme, which says it is over, and despite the fact that it claims that the programme is over, it brings us a regulation of the previous programme. How will you deal with this contradiction and this uncompromising logic of the government with truth and reality? I'm guessing no one can deal with her. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this incident that we are seeing today is one of the many episodes of the "final of the programme", which we will see in the next few months. I would like to remind you, invoking your attention, of three major issues of this juncture, which are linked to the false record: 'The end of the memoranda and the programme'. One is this and then I will come back to say a few more. The second, ladies and gentlemen, is Mr Tsakalotou's Act, the FEK number 2320/2018, which gave the ten thousand properties of the public in the excess, as required by creditors. After the end of the program, do you give the properties of the Greek State, the ownership of the Greek State, to the lenders? Why are you doing this? You do, because you're a subordinate government. He sent a letter, he says, the superstate to the government and asked for these properties. I would like to point out, invoking your attention, that, with the extension of the register and the rest, which will be recorded in the ownership of the Greek State, there is a risk that they will be placed in the superstate. The third point is that, ladies and gentlemen, within a few days, the preliminary draft budget, drawn up on the basis of the circular of Mr Juliarakis, which includes pension cuts from 1-1-2019, will come to Parliament. We are in front of a huge contradiction of the government, which, while it has dramatically cut pensions with the glutton Kharugalo and the new pensioners, those who come out after May 2016, get pensions reduced by 30%, claim to protect pensions and to negotiate with our partners and lenders. If the government wanted to negotiate with our partners and lenders, it would have set the framework of the Katorugalou Act, which Mrs Ahtsoglou has been very pleased to implement, and with particular delay, because it is due to a hundred and fifty thousand pensions in order to go to a system that would ensure the viability of the insurance system, it would not lead to these major cuts and would be fair. So here the memorandum and the programme are not over and the government is playing another election game. I come to what we are discussing today, ladies and gentlemen. What did Mr. Tsipras say? He said he would abolish the submarine salary. With a law and an article, I say. Why does the government not bring it today? What did Mr. Tsipras say? He said he would reintroduce national collective bargaining. The Minister said we have collective negotiations. Yes, we did, and we have, and the government has brought expansion. We support it. But, Minister, the possibility for the national collective agreement to shape the minimum wage, that is, the cooperation of the social partners, why do you not bring it back? Is there a more advanced and well-established system than the process of social dialogue and responsible treatment by employers and workers of minimum wage formation? And does this minimum wage procedure not affect sectoral contracts? The amendment we have tabled gives you the opportunity, if you want to bring it back. I think you have - and I must stress - a dissatisfaction with the workers' organizations. Recently, you brought law and made the Industrial Association of Northern Greece a social partner, because his president says a few good words about the government. BSE seems not to represent, according to your logic, the industry as a whole, and that is why you brought the Association of Northern Greece. I inform you that Industrial Associations exist both in southern Greece and in Crete and everywhere. Why don't you make them social partners? And if you want to expand the participation of the social partners, why so far, Minister, and I would like to denounce it from this Step - you have not seen the General Confederation of Workers in Greece? Employers are welcome by the government, by Mr. Tsipras in Maximos and by the Minister. Only the General Confederation of Workers of Greece is excluded. These practices are regimen practices. So, in addition to your insistence on supporting policies that you have denounced, because you are unable to negotiate, you are showing signs of institutional deflection, as far as dealing with this process of social dialogue, the formation of labour relations and lower wages are concerned. Therefore, if the government wants to feel very proudly, not because it implements what it has denounced, and indeed too late, let it accept the amendment tabled by the Democratic Reformation, which puts it all on a very reasonable basis, far from the indulgence of days, maturely and documentedly, to justify those who have suffered the hardships of the crisis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Katsotis has the floor for seven minutes, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u145	Let's hope Mrs Ahtsoglu listens to us, though she usually leaves after some position. Maybe he can't stand it. Is the amendment brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, by Mrs Ahtsioglu, by the Brutsi Act, yes or no? It's the Brutsi Act, Article 103 of this law. This is coming to take effect. This is the beginning of the process of formulating the minimum wage. Is that so, yes or no? It's just like that and stop fooling around with all the other things he said. We'll talk about the rest. So what does Article 103 of this law provide for? That collective bargaining will not be free. The Minister will decide the minimum wage. On what criteria? What are the main criteria for the lower wage decision? It is competitiveness, employment, unemployment, and all these reactive arguments - the deep reactive - which have so far been used, to be able to say that wages are the responsibility of unemployment, wages are the responsibility of the economy, the crisis and the rest. These were adopted by the previous government of Samara - Venizelou. That is what the SYRIZA Government is fully adopting, confirming the chapter that there is no way of going back to the past, to the pathogens, as Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister, described as the conquests of the working class, our people. That is what the government is going to do today, with its amendment. Mrs Ahtsioglu, when she says that she ensures that workers in collective labour agreements are reclaimed. Six decisions have now been made for the workers in the port of Piraeus, who are struggling for the collective labour agreement, that their strike is illegal and abusive. Six court rulings. The government, by law on the reduction of the rights of the strike, shielded the business groups from hitting this right, against workers fighting to improve the conditions of pay and work in the workplace. It is her work that the workers at the port of Piraeus are beaten by the far right, by the Chrysangiites. Institutions in the service of business groups are chasing the workers and hitting the President of the trade union, the association there, and terrorizing the workers to refrain from strikes and to become strikers because otherwise, they are expected to be punished by the employer and by the state, which is ruthless through the mechanisms it has, the MATs, the ports and all that it uses at the expense of the workers. However, it creates the environment - it says - to claim workers, to improve the conditions of pay for work and collective agreements. The builders fight every day in the construction sites. Who are those who react and collide with them? Who are those who terrorize workers? Is this not the climate that your policy creates, which serves the needs of big capital and promotes cheap labour force through all the context that you have been maintaining for so many years? He spoke here about the Act of the Ministerial Council, which reduced wages by 22% and 32%. Don't you now maintain this four years, where are you in the government? Why have you not abolished this act of the Ministerial Council? Didn't you say that you would immediately reinstate the minimum wage to 751 euros? Who were they who forbade you to make such a decision? They were the needs of the capital and the commitments you made to them. Mrs Ahtsoglou spoke and said she extended collective agreements. Does he not know that today collective labour contracts have only 10% of the workers in our country? But let's see in those branches that extended it, what did it expand? Does Mrs Ahtsoglou know that in tourism - she knows very well - the employer, along with the federation of tourism has earned the claims she has had so many years to restructure working time with ten hours a day and seven days work a week? Does he know that? That expanded. They say that the Labour Council and the mechanisms, the 'ERGAN' etc., found that the hotel federation accounts for 52% of the industry. Does Mrs Ahchioglu know how many of the conventions that had been signed before she was compulsory, as she says she was doing? They applied to 10% of the employees in the sector. So what does it say? It says that so far, four years, it has allowed employers to violate the contract and to implement it only for 10%, that is, where there was a trade union and strive to implement the contract. That's what Mrs. Ahchioglu tells us. Today, how does it assure us that the convention, which has been extended throughout Greece, will be implemented, when - if you like - the political direction that this government - and the previous one and the others - are 'do not hurt employers'. Let the market resolve the problems and implement what it is doing with industrial relations and wages and individual and operational contracts to move on, regardless of whether the government is now saying that it is in favour of sectoral agreements? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But in practice what is happening is another thing. Here's Rhodes! Accept the amendment tabled by the JRC today. It is an amendment which has been tabled by five hundred workers' organizations, both secondary and primary, all over our country and for minimum wages, but also for the extension of collective agreements. Our amendment - I read it, although you have it, of course - provides for the abolition of all the anti-virtual, memorial provisions determining the minimum wage that still apply, such as the act of the Ministerial Council 6/2012 and Article 103 of Law No 4172/2013, of the Brutsis Act, as we say. We anticipate the abolition. Do you abolish them? Yes or no? Oh, no. Mrs Ahtsoglou says we're predicting an increase. Did he say today about an increase in the minimum wage? Did you hear that? Will he call it the beginning of January when they end up in dialogue? And on what criterion? We have said what criteria it will be. So the downturn in the minimum wage, its increase, as the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki said, will be within what they have decided in Portugal, at 80 minutes a day, in order not to ensure the competitiveness of businesses and their profitability. We therefore say that our proposal is, if you like, the solution for workers, for the folk. It is the reintroduction of the EUR 751 minimum wage. It is the reintroduction, if you wish, of the law which ensured these negotiations, the - within introductory - 'free', because they have never been free and, of course, it is a series of abolition of the provisions of previous laws, which in fact ensure that here the working class can organise its struggle through the reorganisation of the movement and achieve better conditions of pay and work. Otherwise the working class itself will also send you where it sent the others and will claim, through its struggle, through its struggles, overthrow this policy and, of course, create conditions for another course.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Javarras, now has the floor for twelve minutes and immediately after Mr Xydakis. Then there is Mrs Levanios, Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Hadjisavvas, Parliamentary Representative from Golden Dawn, Mr Papadopoulos, Mrs Katsavria and we will conclude with Mr Mardas. Here, Mr Javarra, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, you have indeed organized, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, a parliamentary celebration, I would describe it as such, in order to applaud this very great offer to the workers of Greece, to those who are still deceived of your appreciation. But is it possible, Minister, that you, Doctor of Labour Law, have been informed, reading your curriculum and a new politician, who should bring a new morale to this Chamber, to accuse the President of New Democracy of being against collective bargaining? Do you have the courage to distort so much the meaning of the words, which had the opportunity to address all Greeks to the audience of all Greece from the step of the Thessaloniki Exhibition and where he clearly said that we are in favour of free negotiations, which are an expression of collective autonomy, namely the power recognised by the 1975 Constitution? The New Democracy has drafted this with the majority that it had at the time and, of course, that, as experts say, it is the most liberal constitution that this country has ever had. That's why you don't have, by the way, I'm saying, and the right to accuse New Democracy and Mitsotakis of being far-right or related to any manifestation of authoritarianism or totalitarianism in this place. There, therefore, with the collective autonomy which the Constitution ensures, consolidates it and sets it a foundation in the way in which the issues and frictions developed between the social partners are resolved, all the philosophy of the New Democracy, which is the paradigm, which expresses liberalism and not neoliberalism, are founded. It is the party that has been supporting its presence for decades in this place because it has invested in freedom, equality and justice. And now you're coming to tell us what exactly? I haven't understood. That the process of collective bargaining, which had been abolished, is restored by this amendment? By what provision of law do you know that? It is known that Greek law 1876/1990 still applies to collective bargaining. In this law, therefore, there is a legal reality, which regulates all relations between collective working life, the possibility that the social partners, through their organisations, will resolve all the issues relating to working conditions and the definition of wages, wages and wages. There is only one exception, which, as you well know, Law 4093/2012 has introduced it, and this exception has been adopted, because it has decided in Greece to implement a new system for setting the minimum legal wage and the minimum legal wage. So the legislator and the House decided that after this reform, the social partners will no longer decide collectively on the legal minimum wage and the legal minimum wage, but will decide on it by the state. And, of course, I would say that if you had had had the power to change, a reform and annulled this statute and you have again led to Law 1876/1990, that is to say, the arrangements for setting the legal minimum wage and the statutory minimum wage by collective bargaining, that is, the national labour agreement, then you would have every right, by addressing this House, to say to us: Yes, gentlemen, we are different, because you are against workers, while we are in favour of collective autonomy in all its possible manifestations. Why haven't you done this so far, Minister? However, the worst thing you do is to bring an amendment today, which adds a paragraph 8 to what provision? In the provision of Article 103 of Law 4172/2013, a law, i.e., which is essentially applicable to the second Memorandum. So, at least for those who understand, for those who understand the reality and not those who use the lie, in the way Freud has revealed, that is, as a defence mechanism against a reality, which is hostile to us, as - good time - is happening in your case. Instead of saying to us: Yes, we reinstate the old regime and restore the collective bargaining in all possible manifestations of the definition of collective life in industrial relations, you come today and update, you are basically accepting and indirectly acknowledge that there is no other way in Greece and after the end of the memoranda, as you have recently celebrated, in order to determine the minimum wage and the minimum wage from the legislative path, that is, from the state's action and not from the collective bargaining. So why are you lying to us? Where is your right to appeal to Civic Opposition, at the time when you are now adopting the provisions of the Second Memorandum, which, as you have heard from the previous speakers, you have denounced and voted against? And today, ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, that is to say, the addition of paragraph 8 to this provision, under your applause and your enthusiasm, you are basically making a net return to the second memorandum and to the provisions which Parliament has voted on in this memorandum. So what do you want? Tell us, for the Greek people also to know, how you have reached this point of the affection of all those who really expect the government to implement its commitments? But it seems that...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u148	On the substance of the matter, tell us something! Do you want to be voted on or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u149	This substance you have in mind and keep it on your behalf. When the speaker speaks, when you know one thing in Stepa, you know one thing - I cannot understand, of course, why you interrupt me, but it doesn't matter, you do well - you know that when I talk to Vima and all my colleagues who don't belong to SYRIZA, we have nothing else in our minds took freedom and language. Therefore, Mr Tsipras, stop oppressing me in this way, because it is indeed certain - and you here today confirm it - that this government, represented today by these main ministers and having Mr Tsipras as Prime Minister, does not tolerate one thing: the opposition, the opposite reason, the reason it introduces such issues as the limits of perception of authoritarianism and partisanism, for what you are today representing as the ideologists of a state that no longer has limits, but has no pretexts. Even when you are forced to take steps liberally, even when you are forced to drink and talk, supposedly you are in favour of the open and free market, at the very heart of your soul you have one thing: how to do the state of "fatherful" of all citizens. Well, that is, the reality and especially the Greek people are systematically denying it to you. And that's why you're resorting to lies. It is a defence mechanism that you are using, because you can no longer withstand the real lamentation, which should accompany all your moves, if it has happened courageously and you had the opportunity to look out the window here in Parliament or in your government and see how the world reacts, how people fight and see how the world comments on all these fencings and all these efforts that you make to deceive yourself and society itself. So, what do we do, Minister? You have to make a decision. You must make a decision that this fate you give, these projects that have failed and those plans of your administration, which have proved to be faulty, in the end the only ones that will suffer are you and no one else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Mr Xydakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor and immediately after Mrs Lebanese. Here, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Today in the Third Summer Department we have the duty, joy and challenge to face two legislations, which have their own meaning and a special historical depth. One concerns the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, a great donation to the Greek state for a work of social welfare, for a project concerning public health. On this occasion, some of the bad comments were heard and favourable comments were made. There is an inconsistency, an inconsistent comparison of different historical moments and different approaches, without even seeing when we talk about large benefactors and large private donations to the public, historical depth and substance. Recall that the entire new Greek state in the 19th century, in order to build institutions of education and social welfare, was supported, in many cases, by the great benefactors, to see the humanities and special nature of the benefactors in the 19th century. They were mainly continental, people who built their wealth, outside national borders, except for the small Greek model of kingdom of that time, in the over-doubted hegemonies, in Russia, in Western Europe, in North Africa, in Egypt. Mr Karras made a comment from the Democratic Association on distrust, which is contained in the Convention on the possibility of a rapid resolution of disputes by the Greek administrative courts and the referral of cases to another international arbitration body. If you read the testimonies of the great benefactors of the 19th century, which belong to various archives, you will see with how thinly this permanent distrust of the benefactors to the Greek state's potential to absorb this donation for the common good is recorded and not channelled to party or selfish channels. However, everyone recognised that the contract, as submitted for ratification here, in the Greek Parliament today, is above any suspicion, clarity, clean, structured, technically impeccable and almost doomed to function properly, under all conditions, terms and conditions. In this respect, as Members of this Parliament, as members of the National Representation, at a critical historic time for the country, we must also be pleased that some steps are being taken in the field of public administration, in the field of civil administration and in the field of the development of political culture. And this is done by a SYRIZA government. That's not bad. Let the left also give her own sample of writing for the major reforms, for the major modernisations that this country needs. Let us also see, of course, everyone - I am not of course taking myself out - that these moves of the great benefits, the great donations in the areas of social projects, which are directed directly at society, take place at a time when great Greek wealthy, great Greek capitalists, even now that we are talking, in this hurt homeland, are avoiding paying taxes, avoiding investing, avoiding doing good. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation and other bonds are the ones that break the bad tradition of social welfare works from the Greek capitalism in the twentieth century. He changed the agenda in a way that makes us think about what it means to return the gain and wealth to society, from which he came or returned a gain and wealth that might come from the international space, but he returns to his homeland, who earned it as a gift for his land, for the people, for the country that grew him, for the country that created him, for the country that inspired him, for the country that inspired him. That's what we need to talk about in this Chamber. Let us discuss them, even afterward, and let us look at these great moves, which produce a kind of renewal of social consciousness, the other examples of the Greek pluralism, of Greek oligarchs, who invest their profits, invest their wealth, not in society, not in their homeland, not in people, not in young people, not in health, but in the OLAF, gambling and media as gambling. Let's see that. It is also a political lesson, a political message. Colleagues of counter-population have mentioned various aspects of the amendment, which the Minister for Labour and the Government have brought back to collective agreements and minimum wages. I would agree on one thing: yes, the real objective of a free society is the reintroduction of the 1990 regime, the full freedom of negotiations. The labour movement, the workers, must have full freedom and autonomy both from the parties and from the executive, shut up and establish their own shapes. It will also be done, but coming out of the Memorandum of Submission, this is the first step, which sends a message, a signal in the world of work - which more than everyone suffered during the Memorandum of Force - that something is beginning to change. It is a long way to go, it is incomprehensible, it is inexorable, but something is going on. We're going somewhere. We have a place to believe in something to hope for. That is why the levelling and total nullification of any effort, whatever step, is malnutrition, petty and petty. So we do not send a message of hope and courage to the people who have been hurt, who have suffered more from the terrible domestic devaluation brought by the memorial to Greece over the last eight years, from the people who have seen his income smaller or sink into constant precariousness. The work of the political world and the elected rulers in democracy is to create material terms and better conditions, but along with it, to send a message, faith in democracy, the forces of society, the powers of the people and the democratic state. I would like to defend - although I do not need my own defence - Paul Paul Polakis, from a point of view made by my colleague Mr Theocharopoulos. There was a news post - I won't say it treacherous - in a newspaper of small circulation or on a site, I don't remember, who wanted to hit Paul Paul Paul. You can find things for Paul Paul Paul - he is willingly exposed, willingly oriented, willingly confronted, it is an open book - but not for what he was accused of this morning. He fell into the trap and Mr. Theocharopoulos, who is usually more careful and more read. They said that Paul Paul Paulakis was convicted in a committee of Parliament against “HUMANY”. Wrong! Read the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u152	We've read them. We read them from the Steps of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u153	Please don't interrupt me. So I'll tell you what I read. Paulakis said one thing I'd sign it up to an antenna. I am neither a prisoner nor a stalinder nor a neoliberal. I'm a democrat, and I'm a left. So Paulakis said one thing, which anyone who has dealt with public administration, even for two months or with self-government for a year or with any public institution, is aware of in Greece, that we have a very heavy public accounting system, with huge slow mechanisms for cost-prevention and screening, which often leads to the administration inertia, in deadlocks, in difficulties. So he said the obvious, especially after the country's great historical adventure, that a duty of elected democratic politicians is to 'hand' and there, to speed up administrative courts, to lighten public accounting, but never at the expense of transparency and clarity. SYRIZA has never said that he doubts the functionality of the institution of “HAVE”. What is the duty of the democratic state, especially as we come out of historical adventure and prepare for another historic phase, is to create a more functional, more flexible, fairer and more efficient public accountancy, a more functional democratic state. This is signed by every democrat to the antenna. Otherwise, I would refer you to the Commission's reports thirty-forty-forty days ago on the negative record of Greece in the administrative courts. The average period of service is five and six years, when other countries have six and twelve months. I would also like to say to you about the report by the European Court of Auditors - which is not a single body - which judged the effectiveness of public-private partnerships, which someone here defended. We, too, are defending public and private cooperation, where, for better results, in terms, rules and clauses. However, the European Court of Auditors argues that more than 50% of the major projects were made in wrong ways, with great delays, with the dismantling of money and without the achievement of a final objective. Let's ask the Italian government, which manages the bridge in Genoa, to see what they have to tell us. It was a partnership, and there are checks on criminal liability. There are no black and white, there are no good liberals and bad prisoners. The worst state-of-the-art in Greece was the right of the '50s, the '60s, the '70s and, unfortunately, even now, for the state of the clientry and best friends', for the 'crony capitalism' they love. These are the prisoners, today's baptized "liberals". One of the most genuine traditions of the Left since the 19th century was that next to Marxism was liberalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Mrs Lebanese has the floor for seven minutes. Then Mr Kegeroglu, Mr Hadjisavvas as parliamentary representative and three fellow Members, follows. Finally, the Ministers will take the floor to conclude the debate. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about a bill - a contract, which concerns a donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to the Ministry of Health or, if you like, to a benefit of the Foundation to the entire Greek people. This is beneficial, because the contribution of funds to public health, the voluntary commitment to building up buildings for public health structures, the supply of equipment and the provision of a range of needs, which are difficult to meet, because of the limited resources of the State, solves problems and in particular strengthens the quality of the services available to the State for free. I have also heard the argument in committee that we have changed our attitude or that this convention and this positive development relates to the political image of the government, which is allegedly gaining a service. Unfortunately, some forget the role they have, as representatives of the Greek people in the House, and consider everything to be part of the policy of communication and slogans. They ignore the fact that this is a contract, which defines in detail and fully transparent terms exactly how projects and supplies will develop. One does not need to be a qualified legal officer to see that the full management of the projects is carried out by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, without any management involvement of the government and the state. So they ignore the reality consciously in order to create a false picture, but ultimately revealing the truth, that is, the only thing that is interested in the opposition is the rectification of the system, which led to the bankruptcy of the country and the Greek people. The choice of the Ministry of Health not to follow the process of undertaking the project itself and the management of the funds available to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is excellent. On the one hand, it will allow for the completion of what is envisaged, without the delays that are sometimes caused - and deliberately - by the various services of the state apparatus. At the same time, the contract allows the Foundation to carry out projects within public structures such as the "Advertising", but also defines the scope of control, the rules of project development. At the same time, the procedure anticipated, ensures from the outset that no one can be involved in the procedures and in the management of the money, beyond the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. Consequently, the argument that the whole contract will enable the Government to engage in customer management operations such as those which are well known to some of the Anti-Populations does not work. The procedure followed in this case to some extent restores the credibility of the Greek state and the confidence in the social state. Public health structures are one of the main pillars of the social state. The fact that an institution such as this decides to allocate this amount and meet the specific needs, which covers the recognition of the real value of the social state. At the same time, it demonstrates the need to strengthen the social state, upgrade and provide the best service to the citizens. We all hope that the example of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will be followed by others. After all, it is gradually understood by everyone that the seasons which donated were disappearing or depleted in the development of public image cultures of specific persons and representatives of the system have, we hope, gone definitively. The government is determined to go ahead with the restoration of the social state and not just. Support for social and economic actors in this direction is a fact. It is hoped that we can shape a new reality. This is where the Ministry of Labour's amendment is aimed to revise the minimum wage. The Government proves in practice its commitment to improving wage terms in the country. For those who are in a hurry to argue that the start of the procedure for the revision of the minimum wage is part of a pre-election period, I would simply remind you that all workers in the country from 2010 to 2014 were forced to wage cuts, in proportion to the profitability of enterprises and the actual data of the private economy. At the same time, the restriction of labour rights by 2014 has shaped, in the name of competitiveness, a tragic situation of which part has been healed since 2015. The majority of workers are still today, eight years after the first memorandum, to be paid little. This situation needs to be changed immediately. The increase in minimum wage is a necessity which will have a significant and positive impact on society as a whole. It is indiscriminate that the right of the Opposition to claim that our country's economic development will only arise through large and foreign investment. But it is also an inalienable right for the Government and the Ministry of Labour to say that it is of primary importance for workers to be paid as best and fairly as possible. Needs are many for society and the country. We are very sorry, but the country cannot, and society certainly does not want to be synchronized with the plans of counter-population. The government, with the exit from the memoranda, puts priorities on the basis of its real needs, the reality of society and moves forward, implementing as much as it can, to alleviate the world and to create the foundations for reconstruction that responds to social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mrs Lebanese. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. We are, of course, discussing the ratification of a convention. I do not belong to the Department, but, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am entitled to speak about the amendment tabled by the Change Movement and which I sign up for. There is a debate today on the issue of minimum wages, minimum wages, the way in which it fully reveals the government, which three and a half years ago told us that tomorrow it would legislate at EUR 751 - then told us 'in two instalments' - and, of course, the reintroduction of free collective bargaining. Throughout the entire period of the third memorandum, he had the justification 'what to do, children, bring memorial provisions and observe the Memorandumary Laws, since we have the third Memorandum', which reminds us that we have voted for it too. Of course, they had this reasoning and that justification, by addressing the Greek people, at the same time saying that once the memorandum expires, we are now coming and applying our own policy. And it's over, he says, the memorandum, others say in total, others say typically. In any event, however, after the expiry of this Convention on 20 August 2018, we are going to find that the Government continues to support the provisions adopted within the framework of the third memorandum of collective redundancies, until the compensation, the provision is still in force, and the new pensions are issued, for retired persons from May 2016 onwards - the Katrugalos Act - continues to apply the provision providing that from 1-1-2019 we will have a reduction in personal disparity, that the provision that says that tax will be reduced and deducted from the employees, workers and pensioners at least one more wage and not only this, but after the word of the memorandum - within or outside of import - signed by Tsakalotos and the assignment of ten thousand and more immovable to the excess of nine years. It's the end of the memorial, you see, with all that. Today, of course, we have the full revelation. The government comes after two years, which could have implemented Article 103 of Law 4172 in 2017, and says we should speed up the implementation of this memorandum. Yes, this law had been passed in a memorial period. Now we're still in a memorial? You confirm him? And why are you saying that you are reintroducing collective bargaining when it comes to basic negotiation, which is the National Association of Labour Convention, you say that it should not deal with wage costs and wage issues? Is it possible to support this? So we are bringing an integrated amendment, which says, yes, the first determination, make it by the procedure that was envisaged or even better, come to vote on what you were saying before. But the basic principle for us is that the social partners should return to free collective bargaining. And what the New Democracy says, and you said that, and Mrs Ahtsioglu tried to remind us of the dividing lines, is that you were fully identified in this particular matter. And the New Democracy said to us, "But how is it possible for the social partners to know what the economy is up to to determine the minimum wage?" Yes, the employers do not know, the employer side does not know what the economy is up and the State official even knows about the first or second institute or ministry. If that's possible! Is that a argument? This mechanism was simply introduced in a memorandum period. Of course he comes to "right" the New Democracy, SYRIZA confirming this mechanism, but two years later, in a non-remembrance period. It can't be, gentlemen. It's either one or the other. Or 20 August ended the country's heavy obligations and we can legislate free collective bargaining or they do not. Let me say something. The minimum wage will apply to the private sector and to all public sector workers and general government bodies concerned with private law. That's well known. If, therefore, the Government had a real intention of adjusting the minimum wage from 1-1-2019, the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State would have been returned as inadmissible. It says, therefore, point (b) of the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State: ‘The proposed provisions do not give rise to any financial impact on the State budget and the budgets of the other bodies of the general government’. Aren't they induced? Are you going to exclude the public? I don't understand. Or is it just in relation to election tactics, even the implementation of the mechanism? I would ask that this report be returned as inadmissible. What they had to say is that the impact and cost of the budget will depend on the final result of the negotiations and the level of adjustment. This is not acceptable to us here. Second theme: Underpaid. It was set up to stimulate the private sector in order to work - so we were told - and the under-the-fifths who had high unemployment. Today you can tell me, gentlemen of the government, why do you apply the underpaid wage even to the public? The workers under twenty-fifths in public work now, but also in the last programme that they are starting now, are expected to have an underpaid wage? Why don't you remove him by a provision? We therefore have an integrated amendment, which provides for the abolition of the minimum wage, which provides for collective bargaining to be re-established after the first implementation of the mechanism immediately since January 2019 and provides for the adjustment of the employee's final wage to the minimum, taking into account the three years. It's a great failure of the government and put it in your own order. Add it. It is quite wrong that you do not reinstate the uninterrupted participation of three years in the determination of the employee's basic wage. Finally, because many have been heard about collective bargaining, collective agreements and expansion, Mrs Ahtsoglou has published a circular on 17-6-2018, which has theme: "Control for the extension of collective bargaining". The last paragraph states: ‘If the employer organisation fails to submit the register of its members and the subsequent failure to comply with the procedure provided for, the extension of the collective agreement shall not be possible’. And that only limits the Ministry's capacity and the will, of course, as much as it is expressed, to extend the collective agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u158	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u159	It is therefore good for us that someone remembered, even after three and a half years, the wage adjustment mechanism, but it is a sloppy step and a memorial period, and that is why we proposed our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Hatzishavvas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes. Then will Mrs Katsavria, Mr. Papadopoulos and Mr. Mardas. Here, Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. It would be a good thing if no bills were needed for charity and donations and the state were to function coordinately and correctly in terms of public health and education, but also in terms of all other levels of administration. With regard to Mrs Ahtsioglou's much-advertised amendment on the raising of the minimum wage, however, it was presented by the systemic media controlled by the Government, that is to say, as an amendment which will solve all the problems created by the Memorandum of Understanding and Legislation adopted by the House as a whole, with the exception of Golden Dawn. What is this amendment, however, actually? This amendment simply says that it will redefine the deadlines for starting the minimum wage and salary process for 2018. He says he will start immediately at the end of September and will end up at the beginning of January and provides for a process with reports by various scientific bodies, dialogue with social partners, recommendations by a committee of scientists, etc., which we have seen in other bills. It is assumed that this process will effectively redefined the minimum wage to levels that are supposed to meet the new economic data and the needs of the workforce. It does not even mention a'reducing', it says'redefinition'. However, in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding followed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, like the previous governments, the level of the statutory minimum wage and a statutory wage should be determined taking into account the state of the Greek economy and its prospects for growth in terms of productivity, prices and competitiveness, employment and unemployment rates, income and wages. Are they going to see the situation in which our national production, which has broken down in the agricultural sector, is the primary production, after seeing the bleeding of young people and young people leaving abroad for a better future, going to make a decision saying that the minimum wage will rise? And if he gets up, how long will he go up, when will he go up? Can we even learn about it? But not. You leave them in ambiguity, genericity and a codification in general, and put the workers into a pre-election hostage, saying to them that "we will start the process if you want to see the end of it, vote for us and see us later." Of course, Mr Tsakalotos, in a timely question of my own on the memorandum measures that are being voted on and if they help Greece, had he publicly admitted that all the memoranda voted by both the first government and the subsequent Memorandum governments did not aim, as a purpose and, of course, to save the Greek economy and the Greeks, but to save the Eurozone and the euro. So you and the Minister, who are missing, must admit that you are continuing a Memorandum of Understanding policy which is unsuccessful to the Greek economy. You do exactly what your predecessors have done and it turns out - and at least I thought you wouldn't catch it and extend it - how New Democracy feels justified because, he says, you're energising a Memorandum Law of its own. And I ask now: did you have to come to this debate? Don't you realize that you're taking orders from the same lenders who are imposing the memos on us? The SYRIZA - ANEL Members who accuse other parties of accuseing memorial policies have not understood that they have voted for memorandums given to them by the commissioners themselves? Do you think you are implementing socialist politics or social democracy? He's a liberal, capitalist. You can no longer hide, have squeeze the margins and so-called socialist manoeuvres you have made are no longer an option. At least your legislation and the decisions you make do not result in socialist and philosophical politics. It is indifferent neoliberalism, capitalism and you follow the orders of our lenders whether the government is SYRIZA - ANEL, or the government is PASOK - New Democracy, and that does not change. But when we see a Minister of Government saying that we are starting a procedure with this amendment, which 'will' raise the wages which he 'will' bring', that 'will' bring the other one, I must inform you that you are ruling over three and a half years. The "will"say the Qualified Opposition and the other opposition parties, promising that once they become a government something will happen. You're the government. So let the "will" and if you want to help, you should give society to understand that with what the Communist Party of Greece says, for example, about social intercourse and other left-wing krone things you say, you can no longer achieve anything. The employer must understand that the worker and the wage he spends on his remuneration is not an exit for his business, it is an investment he makes and pays him to educate him and to specialize him. A climate of cooperation, good survival, good working conditions must be created, so that the employee can also feel that he works in his own business, that he has more profits than the minimum wages and the orders of the memorandums now set, he must take part in the profits that he and he contributes with his work and he should all cooperate together, each on his side and of course with the state to be a driver, the state to make interventions at price, but also, in general, to control the market and not leave uncontrolled the capitalists who are left and who are right to define the general framework of operation. In conclusion, I should like to draw attention to you who have been running for so many years, who are bringing various agreements, that in the region of Macedonia some events have been taking place recently and some festivals that cause the common sense, especially after the tense state of the Ambassadors Agreement, by organisations that say they are philosophers, are posted to Slavics. Some of them were thwarted by the police because they realized they were going to cause a problem. I should draw attention to the authorities in the region, too, to some situations which, through the shameful Ambassadors' agreement, are forbidden. Of course, we do not need to understand what is going on in the whole and we do not even have to wait to see what the Macedonian people are voting for, as we see that all European leaders have voted in favour, that Bush and the United States of America have voted in favour and that we understand what methods exist for both the referendum and the agreement. Of course you should know that Skopje investors have lately invested too much money to buy properties and plots in Northern Greece, Thessaloniki and Halkidiki, worth hundreds of thousands of euros, when we know very well that a well paid civil servant in Skopje takes 200 euros a month, how many free professionals are running and why they have been placed to buy real estate in our Macedonian region. Of course some of them are businessmen who had been jailed with Zaev when they piletted Skopje when Zaev was mayor. And we're going to another situation that your ideology and your bad policy have created in Moria, which is about to explode, under terrible conditions. So your idealism has succeeded in this situation. Adult children and women together with murderers, rapists and dangerous criminals other adults who are together without separating anything, as you have not separated refugees from immigrants and illegal immigrants, and we have led to this problem. They are threatening, according to reports by organisations and even minors to end their lives, to kill themselves, because they are raped and abused every day or want to go to another place and are caught in Moria. This illustrates once again how you have humanism in your mind and the question is again being raised as to where all these millions are said to have been given, which NGOs and where they ended up. Wait for the reactions of the local population, which you once wanted to give them Nobel Prizes, to react now because they cannot live, they cannot survive, and they can call them racists and they can catch a sign and they can be targeted, just as you aim, with the sensitivity shown by the police, the MATs in particular, against Greeks who protest on national issues and accept chemical and wood without limit, and you do not show the same sensitivity to the leftists who destroy, break and burn at every opportunity or the JRC. Is there not anyone to tell me: does it not seem strange to them that, within this entire police cord, they were allowed to reach the main entrance of Thessaloniki's exhibition? Aren't they worried that the system doesn't think they're at risk? In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to point out that this is all done in a concrete way. It does not matter whether illegal immigrants are blocking a road, if Greeks react to a national issue. People should understand that this policy is being exercised because they voted SYRIZA and ANEL twice. And there is no justification for their vote, because the second time they were voted on was after the change of attitude and after the memorial turn and the referendum, where the Greek people were not heard and the 'no' became 'yes'. He should understand that they can't blame the police for implementing SYRIZA policies when he made SYRIZA police boss and state commander with his vote. He should understand that if he wants to express himself as the average Greek patriot, he should form what he has in mind with a vote on the Golden Dawn, when the next elections take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva. Mrs Katsavria has the floor for seven minutes. We have completed with the Parliamentary Representatives. Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Mardas will then speak, so that we can proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that by ratifying this donation contract between the Greek public and the Joint Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" the aid and upgrading of the health system in our country is achieved. The regulations and procedural provisions we are discussing ensure that this donation is implemented with legality, transparency, speed and efficiency. What I consider to be important is the selection of the Social Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" to contribute to the specific projects concerning the sensitive health sector of Greek citizens. This is a commendable option, which comes to be added to other successful initiatives, such as the one of the Centre for Culture in Faliro, which already operates and devours our capital. More importantly, however, it is the fact that the institution places these projects in society through the state, which means that a private body trusts and recognises the public as the body responsible for exercising social policy. Here too, there is no doubt that health, culture and education are not market products to which only the citizen can pay. On the other hand, it is a universal, social right and a state's debt to ensure it and to provide all such services to all citizens and without any discrimination. In this context, of course, the social contribution of the institution is welcome, and indeed, for the establishment of the health structures which have been seen in the years of crisis and bankruptcy. At this point, however, I would like to stress that in spite of the difficult economic situation, we, SYRIZA and our Government have been fighting hard in the health sector in recent years. They are battles that are won every day, with large areas of reform, with an increase in spending, with transparency and the fight against corruption, which, unfortunately, has been a great deal, especially in health. We did not expect or seek to meet the social needs with charity, but with a structured and designed social policy. In any case, however, this donation comes at a good time, as our country turns a page, now marching confidently on the path of fair growth, the recovery of rights and the integration of the social state. The strongest, most comprehensive proof that the country is turning a page is the amendment tabled today by the Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, concerning the formation of the minimum wage in the private sector. The country is returning rapidly to what we call normality. The memorials ended thanks to the sacrifices of the workers and the society of many. The conditions are improving and it is time to restore the losses suffered by the workers due to the bankruptcy caused by the climax and the old political system, the PASOK, whatever name and VDU, along with the New Democracy. Barbaric neoliberalism, middle-century labour, poverty, unemployment and social analgesia are the recipe that we have tried and attempted to bring great interests and the old political system back to the cloak of truth. We do not deserve this truth, the people do not want it and it is no longer misled. Our top priority is full employment, fair distribution of income and fair sharing of burdens. This is the future that the workers and the new generation will claim and win. It is a future with dignity, justice and social solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too, because you were in time. Mr. Papadopoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u165	Percentage of donations, donors, benefactors, benefactors, capitalism, capitalists, capitalist relations and work, right and left of Greece and Europe, and of course for this donation contract between the Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State - which is very useful - for this particular effort by the government to increase the minimum wages, and for the issues we have before us, ladies and gentlemen. I wish that today Greece of the new historical era with commitments, of course, but also with the official emancipation from the memorandum of guardianship in the budget of revenue and expenditure, could not be in need of benefits from the Niarchus Foundation, the Onassis Foundation, and others that offer at this difficult time. I wish that today's period was marked by the ability of the state budget to meet all the needs of building new hospitals, new buildings, to cover all the needs of logistics that we need in staffing. I wish that we could be much more than 5.2% of GDP currently given by the state budget and that we can live with the quality integration of the National Health System gradually, but with the hierarchy that we are doing on needs. And all these may also relate to the issues that we consider with this donation. Look at the Niarchos Foundation's behaviour, other than the "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS" and other capitalists. The attitude of Henry Dunn, who is a benefactor - offering the members and friends of the Greek Red Cross - has become the property of a bank - and is not now a public service, and we hope to be able to ensure in the future that the public is able to invest money on the hierarchies of the Greek state, the Ministry of Health, the various institutions in which the money is invested. And this is very important, because it shows a confidence that there is also the way in which the reconstruction of the National Health System and the government health plan and the priorities of the Greek Government for the health system are given confidence in the benefactors and donors that this will be done in the right way. The benefit of Henry Dunn was not controlled by governments. And they're doing very well now and they're putting in an implementation agency. Because the implementation of all of these plans will provide for a time in which anyone in the government will have to implement the donors' intention. I would also like to point out that thankfully we have interventions from both the European Investment Bank and the funding from the Public Investment Programme and the ESRF. We need, in addition to the Center for Concomitant organ transplants in the area of Onasios and the centre for intervention in the heart-surgery pediatric sector, to be able to do also at the "Papanikolaou" Thessaloniki Myel Transplant Center, this is also a priority. And we can see that all the needs we have in both the oncology and other areas can be met with our own priorities and with our own plan. I would also like to point out that Article 4 of that convention states that the final contract and the individual for each building infrastructure project will define the technical characteristics of the project, the precise description of the properties, the area within which each project will be implemented and any other relevant information on the implementation. It is a specific issue that we are being asked, ladies and gentlemen, by donors' representatives, and by the workers of the ‘Evangelism Hospital’. They want to take serious account of the nature of the buildings which we today want to use as a building at the Nurse School of National Kapodistrian University. They want to take into account what functions are being performed today so that the buildings that are currently, the two that continue to be independent, can also be allowed in the future to serve the needs they have been serving so far. There is the experimental surgery, nursery offices, library, building and room for the Infections Committee, museum, archives etc. We must defend them in every way. I think that the intention of the donors is in the final agreement that will take all this into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr Mardas has the floor, which is the last of the speakers. Then Mr. Paulakis will begin and Mr. Xanthos will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the amendment by the Minister for Labour. The problems facing the country are, however, two key problems. One is unemployment in combination with employment, and the second is the exit of the Greeks to other countries, and this is in conjunction with the birth rate. Everything that restricts unemployment and restricts the exit is not just welcome, but I can say we all have to melt so that we can find ways to keep our children and grandchildren in this country. There is provision for an increase in wages in the way provided, which is the beginning of a process which will depend on an increase in total GDP output, productivity and other factors to be identified. But here too, we must pay particular attention to some other areas which will be affected by this increase, and I am thinking of small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises will bear this increase, but we must in every way limit the burdens of small and medium-sized enterprises as far as possible. More specifically, since the ECA is surplus and keeps its feet tightly, we need to find a method so that the increase in wages does not lead to an increase in social security burdens. In other words, the rate of 20% to 586 is a 'a' amount, at EUR 600 to 610 will become a 'b' amount. The ‘b’ amount shall be similar to ‘a’. Therefore, it may be appropriate to reduce the rate which corresponds to the burdens associated with general insurance. A second point we need to be careful about is the exit of the Greeks who have high skills, scientists, researchers, etc. This is a haemorrhage that has received an area of throat for the last seven years. Those of us, of you, we're academics, we live it very live in college. We live in university because our graduates are coming in and requesting reference letters to find work abroad. The punishment provided for - I cannot understand how any Greek government accepted this - that young people under the age of twenty-five are being paid worse today than some other young people over the age of twenty-five years, I can tell you that it was the point that opened the doors to leave university graduates directly abroad. We therefore need to find another policy that keeps the world in Greece. What could be done? A maximum contribution ceiling could be provided for, for example, in fees of EUR 1,500. What does that mean? It means that if someone gets paid for 3,500 euros, we have businesses that can give this money to scientists to be able to keep them in the country, but companies are coming and say that we cannot pay social security contributions for 4,000, 3,500 and 3,000 fees. What could be done is that there should be a ceiling of social security contributions that does not exceed the fee of EUR 1,500. This means that whoever gets paid for 2,000, 2,500 and 3,000, the company and its own will pay contributions corresponding to EUR 1,500. Some people say that this will lead to a reduction in social security revenues. That's a wrong way of thinking. Why? Instead of having our young people who are leaving and who, in the end, pay what is related to general insurance abroad, which means money lost by Greece, money will be given from which will be EUR 1,500 and stay in Greece - money will be given to general insurance - so our young people will not be lost. With such measures, perhaps some others that we must all consider, we must build such a set of proposals which will lead to what I said at the outset, both in reducing unemployment, and in particular in reducing the tendency for young people to leave abroad, especially those who have skills and are the trunk on which scientific Greece is built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Marda. The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paul Paulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Representative of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation today is a historic day and this is a historic bill with the amendment tabled. Don't laugh, Mr. Yakumato, you understand that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u170	I'm not laughing. I'm laughing for the "historic".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Yakumato, the Minister's not up yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u172	It's a history. Because, first, we have an emblematic and very high donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, a private charity to the public health system of the country. In other words, since the time when ministerial decisions, with amendments, with successive opinions, we have given millions of people from the state corps to specific private enterprises, we have come to a time when a large private charity supports the health system in a very strong way. That's the one great thing. The second great good thing is that after six years of internal devaluation of the work carried out by the memoranda, which the opposition, today, was very gratuitous, imposed - because you were voting together, Mr Kegeroglu, as if you were from no other planet, as if you had not voted on these - is opening the door to abolish the subordinate, to increase the minimum wage and to lure other wages in the private sector. So that's the reality. That is what we are talking about today, that is what we are going to vote on, and as much as you are trying to underestimate them, they are too big. I will start with my donation and most of my speech will be dedicated to donation, but I will say two - three other words, although I think Ephie Ahcioglu has previously answered many things, but I have to clarify two - three issues and the amendment tabled. This donation has a big difference from the others. The Stavros Niarchos Foundation has given 130 million euros from 1996 to 2016 in donations to the health sector, with 90 million of them being given after 2011-2012. In other words, the days of the fat cows were given. There are other donors who have given various smaller amounts, etc. in machinery, infrastructure, in various hospitals. What is the huge difference in this donation, which is not only its height, that is to say the 250 million, but is the way in which we have finally reached it? All the donations made in the past - and the previous donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which were made before it - were the result of appealing to various charitable organisations of some of the ESS directors, some of the administrations of hospitals, some of the associations of friends of hospitals, who were addressing various charitable institutions to meet a great, pressing, intense need of the hospital, the public structure, which was not covered by a planning of the central state, governments. This is how all the examples are. There was no plan. The development plan for the public health system in Greece was only in 1982-1986. Then take the mountains my pain! That was true until today, until we took over. And I say it like that and it may be selfish, but that's what it is. We received a state of dissolving, primaryly unexistent, with missing gauze and cotton hospitals. And cut that candy! We have cotton to wrap the whole planet! And so are the gauze. Cut that candy now! SCAY says it every day, don't take it yourself. So we balanced the situation and put in a programming. The proposal made at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation - I said it to the committee, but I will say it again here, because they need to be heard and impressed - again by some teachers, by some hospitals, etc., was this and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation agreed to: he wanted to make a donation to the health sector of the corresponding emblematicity with the Foundation for Culture, which was held in Faliro. He had agreed - and this he proposed and prepared everything, etc. - give 200 million to reconstruct the "Evangelism" Hospital in a decade's depth, from the ground to the top, part -. Andreas, me and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, in the knowledge of the Prime Minister, had a very open and honest conversation. We discussed with Andreas Drakopoulos, the President of the Foundation. We told them: Look, we don't need this thing. On the basis of what we have done - and I will say a few things below - we need the following things, which are great and we cannot do right now. But having done enough in these tough years - and I will say how donation with the others goes - we need what we have reached out to. We need at the Komotini Hospital, which is the oldest of the country, we need a Children's Hospital in northern Greece, which is not there and it was a shame that we did not have and all the Governments that spent so many years. We also need the repair and purchase of new instruments in the EKA. For those helicopters we bought, of which three fell, we didn't have maintenance contracts. I also told the committee that we do not know where they went - and we cannot find out - the compensation money for these helicopters. I said that we need flying means - there is this technology - so that we do not use the C27s and the C130s of the Army, which we welcome as much as we pay for, because they have saved people. I said we need some specific high-medical equipment, to fill in some things that we do now, etc. They accepted it. It is the largest donation that has been made to the public health system in the country by a private charity, who comes and complements and reinforces, with the above efforts, a project that makes a government wanting to come up - it has made a clear political choice - and backs up the country's public health system. The two hospitals that will build complement a plan that is already being implemented. We opened Santorini. We're finishing the Karpathos Hospital. We're finishing the new Lefkada Hospital. It's over with the Chalkida Hospital. The expansion of the AHEPA was made. It's over with the Hospital of Veria. We didn't have to do one, two. The others are already doing so, whether from own resources or previously built, or from the ESDP. The story with the EAW complements his previous donation. We as a state and as regions bought ninety ambulances. There are now three more competitions, fifty-five, fifty and thirty-two. It is fifty-five for Attica, fifty for central Macedonia and Thessaly and thirty-two from the EKAV's own resources for central Greece, the Annex Tripoli and western Greece. Another ten have been purchased from the Second Health Area for the smaller islands. He gave a hundred and forty-three ambulances the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which is circulating, and thirty-three more the TAP DG in Thessaloniki. All this means that we are replacing within two and a half years - three years - because we started this story in 2016 - the four hundred ten ambulances from the seven hundred and fifty-four that the EKA fleet had received, where the last market had taken place in 2004 at prices that we should not discuss. The same ambulances, the corresponding current model, in the competition of ninety ambulances we bought, purchased 48,000 euros, when the ambulances were bought at EUR 85,000. I'm not talking about mobile units, but about classic ambulances. This was the time of the fat cows, so the country went bankrupt. Thirdly, from our own resources - and from the Attica Region - we buy a PET-CT system at Kifissia General Oncology Hospital "Agioi Anargyroi". We replace the PET - CT of the "Evangelism" and we get two radiopharmaceutical systems, one for Athens and one for Piraeus. Piraeus will enter "Transition". Athens will enter the General Oncology of Kifisia. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation comes and completes and takes PET - CT at the University of Heraklion, at the University of Larissa, at the University of Ioannina. In these three he also puts radiopharmaceutical systems. We add a fourth radiopharmaceuticals system to the Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki to cover the PET - CT of Papageorgiou and the "Theatrical University" which was also made by state money. That's how it's supplemented. The 'Evangelism', which was the original proposal, has already closed the list of 8,500,000 euros of equipment. He gets another 5,000 euros from the district contest. We also recently added the replacement of PET - CT, which is the first to enter Greece and which is about to become "end of life", which will be financed by our Public Investment Project. Of course, this great intervention, these two buildings - the observations made by Mr Papadopoulos - is well known by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. These will be reflected in the final contract. The fundamental point, however, is that in the largest hospital in the country we are building with the guarantee of Rencho Piano, as well as the other two, to which the home of the university nursery will be transferred. It is obvious that the needs that exist will be met. Besides, there was recently the donation of the Nationality with the new O.R. building, the units, etc. Of course, there are also two training programmes: on the one hand, it is the programme for infections, which is a major wound in hospitals to a large proportion of resources. On the other hand, it is funding for all students and graduates of their medical education at Advanced Trauma Life Support. It is the system of support for and response to the multi-strategy, which will be financed by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. It's an excellent program. I was one of the first to do it in Greece in 1995-1996, when it first came to our country. Then we'd pay it out of our pocket or some companies would put some money in to do it by some qualified people, and now it's covered by this story. These are really fundamental and great actions, which will leave a large print when these things are completed. Because we will continue to do what we have done in the public health system for these three years. I really want to thank - and I say this because we have worked together on many things - and Andreas Drakopoulos personally and Yannis Zervakis, with whom we have thrown too much sweat and the donation for the ambulances, who has helped greatly in the realisation of these stories. I now come to another point: Mr. Theocharopoulos, what I said about "GENERAL", was the answer to criticism, "Why are you excluded from public accountancy...?" Mr. Theocharopoulos, the answer was there. But you isolated the word. I'll say what I said, 'cause I don't get anything back. Mr. Xydakis responded well. This criticism has been heard in committee: 'Why do you exclude these procedures'? Let's make it quicker. Because it is obvious that the bet of the next period, yes, it is the state. It is the state, however, not in the sense of Mr Giakoumatos, the Soviet Union, Maduro, North Korea and everything else. It is the state that was formed by the Turkish occupation and the Bavarians, by the Civil War, which was a dry client state, which should not pass fly unless it was ours, until the second acquisition of the Greek people that Andreas Papandreou took the homogeneous Greece and put it in the public sector and "Let's start to party, make any gifts", which moved the black money and all these multiple levels of control. Because that's the situation. These days I have undertaken, on the request of the Prime Minister, to check on the progress of some projects in Crete. And while a shuttle of money has gone from various ministries, they're moving very slowly and less than half. They're already accelerating within a week and a half. You bet, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Note, however, that it is possible for fifty-five days to answer that they do not need to approve a programme contract? Who made this monster? Is it possible for a municipality - have I said this many times - to rent umbrellas on the beach, to want twenty-three signatures outside the municipality? Is it possible that Chania Hospital - we change this - any hospital to get two grand instead of glasses, get pens, sign seven employees at the Ministry, Mr. Xanthos and I? This state also built the PASOK and the New Democracy and all their forefathers. And it wasn't made that way. It was made for political control, to control the pins, namely, customers and to move "black" money. And also, it was built to have no responsibility, because there's a diffusion of responsibility in this thing. So that's what I said next time. And it's an old saying of a self-government, when I went to take over mayor, who said to me: "To tell you, my Patriot, that's what's happening." All these levels are to build a castle and eat in it. Why didn't they eat?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u173	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u174	How did the EUR 85 billion get eaten? Didn't they go out to "SELF"? It has not been done by all this procedure and the approvals, etc.Huh? That's what I said the other day and don't turn it over now that we're going to abolish the 'GENERAL'. This state is an enemy of growth and productive reconstruction and social fair redistribution, because it is built to serve the reproduction of a political and economic system that has bankrupt the country. Two words on the amendment. Whatever you say now...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u175	Sixteen minutes, you're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u176	You have Olympiacos, Mr. Yakumato. I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u177	Sixteen minutes, you're talking. Leave Olympiacos alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u178	Whatever you say now, the story will write...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u179	Come on, ladies and gentlemen, let's finish. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u180	I've heard too much today. Whatever the story says will write that you are the governments that put the country in the memorials and we are the government that took it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u181	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u182	Whatever you say, you will be the governments who have pushed two and a half million people to release and to health, charging them EUR 180 million for services offered to them in public hospitals and we will remain in history as the government that covered them free of charge in the public system and deleted the debts you charged them. Whatever you say, you'll be the governments who paid 25% and 30% of the basic salary and now, yes, this government starts bringing it up again. You'll be the governments that cut the pensions 11 times, and we'll be the government that won't cut it off from Genoa.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u183	You'll get the answer to the caller.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u184	And what we cut off with the 4% that became 6%, which today is 10 and 12 euros, went back to EEAS and supported public hospitals. I'll say a word to get this over with. Watch out. If you haven't gotten it, because the channels don't say it, the four thousand hired under ADP criteria through OAED in the hospitals in the country, don't take the subordinate. They take 5 euros less than they would take if permanent civil servants were appointed. Haven't you seen that? With the conventions we signed - the individual contracts, where we banned the contractors and where we have not expelled them, it is because we have been cut off by a number of judges who have forced us to legislate twice through decisions of the Council. - workers who before contractors were paid at EUR 300 and 400, now they get 750 in the pocket. And we make at least 20% savings from the first year and 30% from the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u185	Minister, I'm sorry, but we've reached eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u186	The 'Evangelism' - since the conversation is about him - made an annual savings of EUR 2,000,000 only from cleanliness, with workers taking EUR 200 and 250 more in the pocket. And with these 2,000,000 surpluses, it will now hire a hundred and ten auxiliary staff - mainly nursing - to support all of its infrastructure. I conclude with the following: Mr Carras - Mr Gregorakos is missing, Mr Barriots, who is also in the area - you have tabled this amendment wrongly. It applies today. You poorly testified it. They didn't let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u187	If that's true, even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u188	Well done. But do you know what now? You're talking about legislating that when there's no bed in a public hospital ID, it's allowed to cross patients with EKAV's ambulances in the intensive units of all private clinics we've signed up to. It's true today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u189	Good. Even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u190	Because you have brought it as an amendment, I do not understand. In fact, we extended it - and we accepted an amendment from Mr Gregorakus - and the uninsured ones that were not covered. We did that too, if he can't find it. I will also tell you something else, which we have arranged with the new EMRP very much. I mean, I don't understand why I have to let you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u191	Minister, it's 20 minutes. Even the minister with the bill doesn't talk that much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u192	I'm done. I'll just say one last word. We received - to know that too - four hundred and thirty-eight Beds IC. The record of our country was the five hundred two, five hundred three beds, which we had reached during the Olympic Games. Currently the operating beds are five hundred sixty-five. In fact, it's not five hundred sixty-five, it's five hundred fifty-seven, because there's a reconstruction of the "Vulas Asclipio", the ICU, through some donation and with our aid. So beds are five hundred fifty-five, five hundred-seven. It's a hundred and twenty more than we've received. Of course, that's not what the channels say. Is that right? And with what we are now preparing, with subsidiary staff, etc., in this year, we will also open up the next ninety in terms of infrastructure in the public sector. We also need a number of beds which, under the new terms and the new contracts that will be signed with private clinics as created by the EEA Health Regulation, will be done by clinics. But what you are saying is true and there is no need for any legalization.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u193	Even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes. I and the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman and the Minister have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u197	Please, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor. Just be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I was in my time before. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Theoharopoulos, I answered what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u200	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Polakis, let my colleague speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u202	Just evidence. Mr Minister, I did not understand from your position - you did not say very clearly, personally, I understood what you said - if you are currently supporting the 'DUPATION' institution. You didn't say it with a clear word. Why am I telling you: I would ask SYRIZA's colleagues to learn the dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u203	Go on, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u204	You're welcome, Mr. President. I cannot understand the unrest of SYRIZA MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, please. We have to move on. Here you go, Mr. Theocharopoulos, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u206	The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman made the advocate - defender and makes the advocate - defender of Mr Polakis. Why am I saying that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u207	Say it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u208	For I have tabled what he said in committee in the Minutes. Nothing else! Nothing more and nothing less! And I'm saying it right here. What a self-government told you. He told you that everything that he sees in the proceedings, in the slides, and so on. It's the castles. And these castles must stop. And you say in your own words: 'This castle must be broken'. And "GENERAL", that is to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u209	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Polakis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u211	You can answer that, Mr. Polakis. I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u212	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Theocharopoulos, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I have just begun. I just have a minute vacation. As the Minister asks, I read from the Minutes: 'All you see with the laws, procedures, claritys, decrees, approvals, ten levels, you know what it is'. Then, "These castles must be stopped, we must break them." These castles also mentioned “HUMANY”. And today when the Minister spoke, I said about efficiency. The problem of efficiency must be seen in the process of becoming faster, but not at the expense of transparency. And DENMARK defends transparency. I would therefore present it to you, in the Minutes too, because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman should also be more aware of what the Minister said. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I did not expect him to support all of SYRIZA today. I would like you, Minister, to say that as you said, this was a mistake, it was an incorrect position, as you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u215	No mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u216	In other words, one cannot apply at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u217	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u218	In fact, SYRIZA's parliamentary spokesman - which is why all SYRIZA - referred to make news about these Minutes. From this means that here there is a major issue, because it can't be the minutes of the House make news.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u219	It's clear, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u220	Minister, you have given a recital'social democratic' finishing with a demonstration of arrogance. It would be preferable to say that it was a mistake to refer to both "GENERAL" and to support "GENERAL" from now on, with clear words.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Xydakis, what do you want now? The Minister is not answering, which has been addressed to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u224	He's answering me.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u225	Are you now confirming that you are an attorney of the Secretary-General? If the Minister's going to answer, we'll finish the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u226	I don't want to answer because Mr. Xanthos has gone up to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u227	He's on the move, and the Minister's on the move.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, I want the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Xydakis, you have recorded in the Minutes what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u230	I would also like to ask the Minister and you for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u231	You have the floor for just a minute, Mr Xydakis, to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u232	I never get far. Look, I was very careful in my wording. Neither Paul Paulakis needs a defense counsel, nor does Thanasis Theocharopoulos need me to teach him to read. He is careful and has been studied by the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence. But here, it was over-interpretation by the media. There was a conversation this morning. It's not like that. If, at the edge of the speech, a politician raises a major problem of public administration in the heart of the democratic state, the heart of what concerns Greece, makes findings, bold suggestions, recommends a reform, and we get a substantial cut off from the verb or an object that is cut off from its performance, mercy! We need better faith and we need to see the essence, the great tree. Everyone agrees that public administration is being dragged, neither effective nor functional, nor serving society and justice. That's what we're saying. It is our duty to both Paul Paul Paul and Andreas Xanthos and Thanasis Theocharopoulos to fix it. That's what I said. Nothing less! For DENMARK, no one questioned its usefulness. Nothing else! Its enlargement and its correction we want!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u233	It's clear, Mr. Xydakis. I think we all agree. Here, Minister, you have the floor. If you can, be within your time - I think Mr Paulakis has covered most of the issues - to complete the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u234	I think we are closing down a debate with an intensity which does not really correspond to the main issue we are discussing today. There was, of course, a political conflict concerning the amendment made by the Ministry of Labour. That was expected. I understand, however, that there really is an attempt, even in bills for which the political forces have no fundamental disagreements, to invent various pretexts to regenerate an aggressive rhetoric against the government. That is what I think is the point of the matter. Here, in fact, we have said this in committee too - we are dealing with a simple donation of large sums of money, a wide range of services, infrastructure and equipment, provided in the health system, even in the field of education. And I think that - as has been pointed out by previous speakers - it is coming to support a comprehensive plan that strengthens public care, even within the crisis, which promotes changes in the equipment and building infrastructure of the ESS, which the health system supports with human and material resources. This is the framework in which this very important donation comes to act strengtheningly, to guarantee the creation of two new hospitals, a renewal to the EKAV's airplanes very critical for the timely response to aerospace needs and also to enable the health system to renew high-tech equipment. That is, therefore, a given framework. Let me say that here is perhaps the difference from previous Memorandum periods. We were indicted by some colleagues that there was a reaction in the past, and so on. First of all, there has never been the 'following abomination' that Mr Psarian said. There was no such thing, Mr Colleague. We had voted "residents" when the Joint Benefit Foundation "Ioannis Latsi" gave a donation of about 5m euros for the "Kourkoulios" Foundation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u235	For the Stavros Niarchos Foundation in Delta, I said. I was a rapporteur at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u236	That is what another Member of Parliament said. The most important thing, my dear fellow Member, is that we did it, we who had voted'residents', because we had a reasoning that said 'in this period public care is being devalued and resources are being drastically cut'. But we did. Nowadays, it worked. We have hired staff and today provides excellent daily care services to the sick in the region. That's the difference. Here we are dealing with some quality elements differently. Firstly, it is a new type of cooperation. It's not a partnership, like some people like to say. Public-private partnership means a business profit for the investor. We don't have that kind of thing here. Here we have private investment in the public health system. Other quality. And it turns out that this government, which you are all giving away private investment, is being expelled from everything private, which is fighting against private enterprises and interests, is able with its credibility to attract private investment that strengthens the public health system. This is an investment in social cohesion and the dignity of our country and we all understand it very well. Secondly, I think that Mr Paulakis, and I do not want to expand - is that we have an institution that accepts the hierarchy and planning of the state and, of course, says: 'You put the priorities and we put the resources in place'. Of course they have an absolute obligation to check and ensure the timely completion of the projects in the construction phase, and then we have an absolute obligation to ensure the functionality and efficiency of these investments. Where has the debate emerged that if the state is not in line with its obligations, these projects will be attributed to private individuals? Where does it come from, to understand? Where did you see that written? The health system is in a healing phase, we have said it too many times. There are still problems, there are still limitations, but we are at a stage where we have more opportunities to support public care, to upgrade the National Health System, to support its human potential, to make potential interventions, to move forward with reforms, to strengthen the social state. This is the essence of the new period and we really have quite good news these days. Yesterday I was at the Andreas Congregation Hospital, where there was also a donation from the Onassis Foundation for the creation, renovation, upgrading a center for melanoma and skin cancer, with modern equipment, with modern diagnostic methods. This is also an excellent initiative to intervene and strengthen the health system. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation has also been used to us in exceptional offers to the public health system over the past few years. And I say this because the question has been put - I think by Mr Theocharopoulos, if I remember correctly - what is going on with this donation of linear accelerators. We have agreed that ten linear accelerators will be purchased. The nine have already surrendered. The second linear accelerator at the University Hospital of Heraklion was also given yesterday. Another one will be given to "Attica" and from what I was informed by the people of the institution - Mr. Zervakis previously - two others have already been launched for the "401 Military Hospital". So 12 linear accelerators have been invested in the public health system and it is no coincidence that in this field of radiotherapy the public health system outweighs the private. There are fifty-seven radiation therapy units, of which thirty-nine are in the public system and eighteen in the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u237	Doctors don't have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u238	I'll say that, Mr. Yakumato. We want it to be quite clear that the period of abandonment of the National Health System and the dramatic cuts in resources has ended definitively. The period of delays in public care for the private sector is also definitively over. The public health system, using all available financial tools and, of course, these excellent donations from individuals and institutions, also calls for a vital health area. That is our policy, and that is what we are serious about, with well thought out steps and no horrors. They know that, too, workers in the health system, but, above all, the citizens, who have in recent years accepted the very critical intervention, which is, in fact, part in the health and social policy of our country, the universal coverage and universal access for uninsured citizens to health care. So we are not going back to the era of great donors, my dear colleague. We go back to the time when public care wasn't the scoundrel of state policy. We return to the time when public care and the fuller coverage of modern social needs are made through an upgraded and sturdy public health system. I think this goal serves this excellent donation. There is also provision - and this is very important, and I think it is a sign of sensitivity from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation - for a special advisory committee composed of representatives of the state, ministries, municipalities, regions where these investments are made, interventions by supervised bodies, EKAB and the University. So a social control mechanism is being created by those who are receiving this donation. I think that this is also very important, because it shows that there is a respect for another public and social morale that we must have today both in the health and political life. Mr Theocharopoulos has left, but I would like to give some answers, because about one picture emerges that here we have a health system that is falling apart. Three years there is this unfulfilled prophecy. Fortunately there are some individuals who are helping and keeping it in life! We have explained that this is not the case. Nor do hospitals sink into debts, as Mr Theocharopoulos said, nor do dramatic cuts continue. As of 2015, cuts in public health expenditure have stopped. There's a threshold. The five-year cuts which had created a total reduction of 40% have been stopped and there has been a period of gradual support so far, which will, of course, continue quite simpler, as I hope, in the next memorandum period. We have already added EUR 92.5 million to the closed budgets for the medicine and the benefits of the EEAS this year, through the planned adjustment of the closed budgets for expenditure due to the projected increase in GDP. This money will enhance hospital spending on the medicine. They will also strengthen child dental care. For the first time, the EEAY will meet the needs of dental care, prevention and treatment of the child. We will also strengthen the budget for special education. This means, therefore, that the operational use of these services and infrastructures to be developed by the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation have sustainability and prospects. In order to convince the Stavros Niarchos Foundation that it is worth making such a great investment in the public health system, we discussed in detail the development of human resources, the recruitment plan, whether with permanent or subsidiary staff. People have been convinced that there is a plan here and that we are not making interventions that are fragmented and fragmented. We are not doing interventions in the system that are temporary and non-functional. So I think that's the critical one, and the state really owes it. There is a great debate and criticism here from the side of the JRC's colleagues. My dear colleague Lambroulis raised the question of whether health is a right or a charity. We have answered this for years and not just from the seat of this House, but through our commitment to the public health system and through the claim of decades in favour of public care. [[Applause]] Health, therefore, is obviously a social right. It's also a public case and it can't be the subject of private charity, obviously. Of course we must demand a period in the next few years when the country, having a fair tax system, will be able to capture wealth and make tax burdens more fairer and have sufficient resources to meet these needs. We're not at this stage and you know it very well. That is why we have to make this policy of synergy of resources from the state budget, from social security, from the NSRF, from interventions that are positive to certain regions, such as the Attica region which has invested 40m euros in the infrastructure of the NSR in Levanopod, from the use of the Public Investment Programme, from the use of the Ministry's reserve and, of course, from donations from individuals and institutions. That's the box. That's the plan. I think that the prospect of getting this important donation is obviously what is of interest to the foundation and us. We do not want, as in the past, to have infrastructure, modern, well-equipped but non-functional. This ensures a political line that says about investing in public care, more recruitment, strengthening human resources, and not, ladies and gentlemen, a policy that says less of a state, that is, less of a social state, a policy that says to buy services from the private sector and that there is no need for an investment in public care. Finally, I am tabling a legislative improvement. We want to add the phrase 'and other provisions' to the title of the bill. We add 'and other provisions'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Donation Convention between the Foundation "S. Niarchos Social Benefit Foundation" and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the field of health". Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u248	Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Donation Convention between the Foundation "S. Niarchos Social Benefit Foundation" and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade health infrastructures" was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Questioned by the Department: Can Article first be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u257	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Questions to the Department: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1743 and a special number of 134 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u266	The amendment under general number 1743 and a special 134 has therefore been accepted as it stands and is part of the draft law as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Questioned by the Department: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u270	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u275	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: "Following the Donation Convention between the Foundation "S. Niarchos Social Benefit Foundation" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Questioned by the Department: Can the bill be accepted in the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u279	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u284	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: "Creation of the Donation Convention between the Foundation "S. Niarchos Social Benefit Foundation" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructures and other provisions" was accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Chamber to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u286	The Department therefore granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-09-20-S1-commons.u287	With the consent of the Department and 17.16 minutes of the meeting, the meeting shall be closed. I wish everyone a good evening.
