ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2019’. The first speaker has the floor for today, Mr Antoniadis, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to wish all good holidays a preamble. I, too, would like to condemn the placing of a bomb on the 'SKAI'. It's a blow to journalism, democracy, information. Of course, I would add that it is a blow to the image of the country abroad, where the impression of coexistence is created with a situation of terrorism, lawlessness, etc., which does not honor anyone. I would also like to point out that at the moment when the government and Syriza condemn this fact, they are still targeting. This is unacceptable and reminiscent of the popular saying "with the wolf they eat the lamb and with the housewives they go and mourn it." Ladies and gentlemen, we are called on to discuss the first memorial budget, according to the Government, with a tax reduction in 2020, with the bloody surpluses until 2023 and 2060, with a commitment of the Greek State for a hundred years, with a cut-off. And I ask myself: if this budget was not memorial, what would it have found us more harm? After four years of governance, you are still oppositioning the New Democracy. Did you obviously not realize that you were the government all these years? I honestly do not know how much the controversy of data is for the Greek people, which, in fact, have no impact on the real economy. Because the real economy is tested by capital controls, by deaf banks, by high unemployment and migration of Greeks abroad for a living. Businesses and farmers are moving on a stretched rope, we are first on taxes and last on investment, no work is done in the country, all of Greece is a desert state. Instead of discussing the development and fight against unemployment, in order to ensure a better future for all Greeks, for three years we have been discussing possible aid through benefits once a year, whether to give some retrospective or some increases of EUR 10 or 20 in wages and pensions. They are serious, but they are aspirins and not the medicine to combat the crisis. And, of course, this situation does not honor anyone. For three years the Greek people have been systematically terrorized by threats and statements by Turkish politicians and officials, who have been reproduced by all the media in the morning - noon - for a giant that we must not wake up with policy of humiliation. It is a giant Turkey, but with clay legs, which for tens of years has been unable to defeat a handful of Kurdish fighters. But why is that? Are you preparing, in the first and third face, something in the Aegean Sea under the guidance of foreign centres, and you are not telling us? In Macedonian, Is it accidental, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prespecies Agreement passed through the Scottish parliament with eighty votes just? If it were beneficial and correct, according to Mr Zaev, why didn't more support it, that is, eighty-five, eighty-seven or ninety-six Members? And yet, if it was not beneficial or correct, why didn't fewer people vote for it, that is, seventy-five or sixty-five? This "Macedonian" direction to think of everyone. It is also unprecedented in Greek political history that Greeks beg the Americans for new bases everywhere without substantially rewarding. Only our homes didn't suggest bases. And here I can distinguish that the common exercises and more the alliance and protection if one of these states is attacked. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, after all these wrecks you have turned SYRIZA into a shipyard. You attempted control of the media by a shipwreck law. You have attempted to vote for simple proportional with two hundred votes for the prevalence of absolute chaos. Shipwreck. You tried to break up the New Democracy with the scepticism. Shipwreck. You spoke of a historical agreement with the Church. Shipwreck. With NOVARTIS, you have broken the scandal of scandals. Shipwreck. You tried to strengthen the creation of right-wing parties on the edges of the New Democracy, so that it would not get self-reliance. Shipwreck and that. Even the last one with the well-known pawner announced by the Prime Minister in the House, and now your handkerchief is swinging. Your biggest shipwreck, however, and I close with it, is the thundering confession of the Prime Minister himself in this House that, for SYRIZA, political time counts after 21 August. The first time these are heard by the lips of a politician and not a Prime Minister, to erase the three and a half years of rule of the country from him, which are admittedly full of failures, experiments and negative results according to the confession of the Greek Prime Minister. On the other hand, the hundred bright days the government publishes relate to crumbs by means of aids and allowances and retrospectives once a year. Unfortunately, the government, instead of collapsing and eliminating the problems, chose to clash and eliminate the truth. He chose the division of Greek society as a central political doctrine, to cover its tragic mistakes, weaknesses and ultimately its inability. And all that with the Prime Minister's clean mind. I don't want to think, what would he have decided if he didn't have a clean mind. We have a budget that provides for the opposite, that is 2% growth and a 4% surplus, when it had to target growth of 4% and a 2% surplus. We have a budget which is cut by sensitive social groups, with a net value of 1.3 billion, i.e. 200 million from school meals, 150 million from pre-school education, 300 million from infrastructure, 260 million from active employment policies, over 200 million from pharmaceutical cohesion, 200 million from subsidies and more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To mention here only the very important one, which is the reduction of the heating allowance, which mainly affects northern Greece, from 210 million to 60 million, and the reduction, of course, of the Public Investment Programme. It is money that is deprived of the real economy. I would also like to mention, as well as the great injustice committed by the Katrugalou Act from May 2016, for the same categories of pensioners who receive 30% less pension. In conclusion, you wanted to change Greece and Europe, but in the end you preferred to change yourself, because it was easier. You've become the biggest gear of the establishment. Unfortunately, this is a budget that is undeveloping, subsidised, a budget that the Greeks want to share with them the crumbs of poverty without prospects and the future, and that is why we are voting against it. Happy holidays to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u3	Mr Aygeakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the fourth consecutive year the government is tabling a budget that hits the incomes of employees and retired and self-employed people. It is basically tabling a Memorandum of Understanding, which is a tax-centered and anti-developmental budget. He is built under the racing effort of Mr. Tsipras to deceive Greek taxpayers and all those citizens who have been poor with his policy. It keeps growth at anaemic levels, as it makes it difficult to attract investment and create new jobs, which is the biggest social problem. The new budget continues to exaggerate households and businesses and is characterised by the cut in the Public Investment Programme, which could have a multiplier effect on boosting growth. Mr. Tsipras presented a virtual reality in the House over the past two weeks, which is what he is used to. He talked about the first hundred days from the exit from the memorandum and the exit of the crisis, and even celebrates about it. He wants us to forget about the almost four years of his destructive policies. Unfortunately, however, the harsh reality that Greek citizens experience every day has nothing to do with the image presented by Mr. Tsipras. The harsh reality is that it has burdened all Greeks with too many taxes and contributions, to come now to give back to a few, only a few of the many that have taken them. The harsh reality is that he has no right to celebrate Mr. Tsipras. But it has too many reasons to apologise for the present image of Greece. Let it go to society if it dares to talk to the retired, the employees, the shopkeepers, the professionals, the farmers, the unemployed, the young people of EUR 360, the young people who leave abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth, as is reflected in the budget submitted by the government, is that overcoming the budgetary targets has led to anaemic and lower predictions of growth with a significant decline in investment. Today, Mr Tsipras celebrates 'bloody' as he said when he was in opposition, surpluses. Of course, it hides that these surpluses are due to the overtaxation of households and businesses, to the seizures, to the forced recovery measures, to the internal payment stop and, of course, to the cut-off of the Public Investment Programme. Mr Tsipras celebrates, while he knows very well that the policy he is implementing, keeps growth at anaemic levels, makes it difficult to attract foreign investment, create jobs, which is the biggest social problem. Because, yes, unemployment is the biggest social problem right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the course of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is a time of political deception, economic and social devastation and, of course, institutional catastrophe for the country. Unfortunately, this is the fingerprint of the four years of government. The only benefit is the party executives of SYRIZA and the ANELs who have been collated and, of course, the interactive system supports them and seems to continue to support them. Ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the government in the economy is a proverb. The government’s growth targets every year fall out. Unfortunately, the country still remains out of markets, as borrowing rates are forbidden. The country has typically come out of the third memorandum, from an inappropriate memorandum, in which creative ambiguity, irresponsibility, proud negotiations - I imagine them, and you want to forget them - and, of course, the murder of the first semester of 2015. But the program has failed miserably. Unfortunately, today our country, with the main responsibility of the government, is off the market. Mr. Tsipras must explain to the Greek people, because while he assures himself of a net exit to the markets since August, the country has been firmly still today, hundreds of days later, as the Prime Minister said, incapable of borrowing. And this is the most serious problem, as loan rates exceed 4.6%. These interest rates are multiple compared with those of other countries that came out of the memorandum. Unfortunately, the objective of the programme has not been achieved and the country has not returned to normality. Unfortunately, that's the truth, no matter how much Mr. Tsipras and his partners are trying to make it look good. The competitiveness of the economy is down every year. The citizens' debts, unfortunately, are growing constantly. Reforms and privatizations are constantly behind. 60% of new jobs are parttime. Bombs such as PPC or transportation are ready at any time to explode with incalculable consequences. Mr. Tsipras is once again trying to deceive Greek citizens. The quantitative indicators of the economy, however, speak for themselves and naturally give the real picture that you want to forget or you would very much like to blur or not to hear. The competitiveness of the economy is constantly retreating. Economic freedom is constantly shrinking. Governing institutions are constantly degrading. Reforms and privatizations are constantly behind. Private deposits do not, in essence, be credited to the banking system. The credit shrinking continues. The capital restrictions imposed in 2015 have not been fully lifted. Citizens' debts to taxi and insurance funds have been discharged by 60% since the end of 2014. The outstanding public debts and obligations have not been cleared despite government commitments. The Stock Exchange's always falling apart. Bank shares have been dismantled, and 40 billion of Greek taxpayers from the recapitalisation have been wings. The challenges for the banking system, including addressing non-performing exposures and strengthening organic profitability, are before us. The liquidity and sustainability of important operators such as PPC are deteriorating. 60% of new jobs are parttime. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time - and I end with it - the state is growing, without planning, exclusively by micro-partial targeting. What does the SYRIZA Government answer about all this? It calls for an over-excession - we have heard this today and yesterday, with great intensity from the SYRIZA Members - resulting from the inappropriate overtaxation of households and businesses, from the under-utilisation of the Public Investment Programme and, of course, from the delay in the payment of the state's debts. At the same time, it deceives public property, such as PPC, banks, and sends citizens the account of a state that is, in fact, decomposition, in Matti, in Mandra, in the absence of public security, in the increase of crime, in the tolerance of violence and lawlessness, in the broken public transport, in hospitals with dozens of shortcomings. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is a memorandum, it is anti-developmental. He's trained in a bleeding environment in the economy and he's camoufled with an effort to be nice to the harsh reality in the face of the forthcoming elections. The country does not need a government that keeps the economy out of sight and disguises the citizens for four years to share some election presents. The country needs a government with a plan that will release creative economic forces and take the country forward in a sustainable way. The New Democracy has this space, it has this programme, it has the will. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as Prime Minister tomorrow, will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and a training attendant from the 4th Municipal School of Ilioupoli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will give the floor to Mrs Notopoulou, State Secretary for the Interior, with responsibility for Macedonia - Thrace, and then we will continue the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people and the government have fought and won it. We're done with the memorials, protecting the most vulnerable, the most austerity-sensitive layers. Those responsible for the memorandum cannot yet believe that our government has succeeded. But we are not proud of the Memorandum. We are proud to bring this first Memorandum of Understanding, without a reduction in pensions, which we have only managed to cancel with positive measures to remedy injustices and reduce the large social majority. I'm not just going to talk about the financial data and the numbers. I shall refer to the big issues of northern Greece included in the budget and our policy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the development of northern Greece is the bet of the new era. And it's a bet that we'll win. When this government took over, northern Greece was in decline not only because of the memorials, but mainly because of the central political choices for decades. The overall picture, if you like, was a project that ends this year, in 2019. What does the northern Greece and Thessaloniki of 2014 have to do with misery, decay, isolation with Thessaloniki and northern Greece today? Today, our aim is to make northern Greece a commercial, transit, a business hub. And this is another plan, primarily another vision. In the field of energy, the TAP pipeline is completed and new networks are planned. At the same time, of course, domestic gas connections are also being completed in all parts of northern Greece. In the area of combined transport we already have the completion of the electrified line of Athens - Thessaloniki and Thessaloniki - Idomeni. We also have significant investments in the major ports of Thessaloniki, Kavala, Alexandroupolis, shopping centres connected with roads and railway networks. Egnatia, the so-called Balkan transport ring and the upgrading of the airport "MAKEDONIA" in Thessaloniki, proceeded. Northern Greece has a transport network, an energy network and, of course, a digital network. In urban transport we have put an end to the sinner OSH, the example of the legalisation of theft public money. We proceed directly to an invitation to tender for the supply of new anti-pollution buses. From machines that didn't change and steal citizens, today we're going to the online ticket and the consultation comes out of that. We are becoming a modern European city, however much as some are taking advantage of the difficulties in the daily lives of the citizen and are seeking to return to the time of rupture. We founded local health units. We move on to the construction of new school units, to create a new university with the merger of academic institutions in northern Greece, to reorganise and strengthen all cultural institutions in northern Greece. We are creating social structures, because for us what is important is the upgrading of the quality of life of citizens. Human dignity is a priority. In a Thessaloniki, in a northern Greece that was drowning, we donated free spaces, former camps, to the local society. We create free green and metropolitan parks everywhere. Of course we have maintained - and that is why we are proud - the free, public character of the first pier in the port of Thessaloniki and so today we have a place of meeting and a cultural womb. The day before we started planting in the memory park, refreshing in front of the area at the Holocaust Museum. We have substituted the railroad and extended the metro lines, because, ladies and gentlemen, in the deported areas, in the western districts, we have placed the burden on it and this will be another Thessaloniki. So here's what the Prime Minister's office has done, so questioned by the New Democracy and so much it will be. Northern Greece, with all its powers, with the very hard work of the government, did the daring, made a great effort, and from northern Greece, the introvert, from Thessaloniki, to the drowning role of the co-chair and in vain attempted to become a cache of Athens, we dare. We move on to northern Greece of tomorrow, in northern Greece, which restores its development prospects, in Thessaloniki, which becomes the metropolis of the Balkans and Southeast Europe. Thessaloniki became a diplomatic hub, and that is why it hosted multiple senior cooperation councils. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ambassadors' Agreement, a fair, honest agreement that fully guarantees the national interest, which protects Macedonia, opens up new paths of development, peaceful cooperation and coexistence. Today northern Greece redefined its internal relations with the Balkans. He's actively returning to the Balkan neighborhood. It regains its strategic role. Northern Greece appears to be a leader, a pillar of stability appears, and it is the one showing the way. Also, IMAD takes some initiatives. It takes the initiative to establish a European Territorial Cooperation Group, and early 2019 we are organising a dialkan forum for infrastructure and entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, the multipathy of HYMAT is now evident, that it is currently leading the development effort in northern Greece. Our aim is primarily for northern Greece to become an attractive, investment destination. In particular, under the Development Act, Law No.4399, a total of more than 50 investment projects submitted, the investment aided cost exceeds EUR 400,000 000. That is to say, five hundred and ninety new jobs are being created, and thousands of them are being preserved. It is intended to assess the submitted projects in the second cycle and the third is awarded in 2019. We have redefined the priorities of the Ministry of Macedonia Thrace and we are already bringing four new projects in this quarter. We started first with youth actions, because we put the new generation on priority. Young people and young people right now can design their lives in Macedonia and Thrace and the YMAT is next to them. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] At the same time, we are creating a model digital centre for children and multiple actions of social solidarity. We have social policy everywhere, where we have the opportunity, where we are given the space. I should like to stress here that the notices are open now and accessible to everyone, while they were not. But growth without strong self-government is not possible, and KLITHENIS is the first major step in this. We are working so that local government operates for the benefit of the citizen, whatever location we may be. The "PILADIMOS" programme provides targeted resources to vital needs of local government. Because, yes, we have the party identity - we did not hide it, as others did - but we did not make any distinction. We heard, worked with everyone, and we gave solutions. Projects amounting to EUR 150,000,000 were implemented throughout northern Greece. A total of EUR 20,000 000 was granted for civil protection, and some EUR 50 000 000 for the AXI programme. Finally, 8,000 euros were given to the mountain municipalities of northern Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, there has so far been no mature study in northern Greece and we have not accepted it. The NSA keeps its public character and goes on to upgrade the water network. The year 2018 was the best year, and I think I don't need to say much more about it. Business presences from America are transformed into business alliances. We're moving on to rejuvenation of the exhibition centre. Of course the power of northern Greece is no more than its human potential, its high-trained. So in Alexandria, we are moving forward in implementing a mega project. We are implementing a new technology park not state-owned but sustainable. Thessaloniki is no longer for young people. Thessaloniki reintroduces the international map with claims. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be judged on the basis of the roads we open and the comparison not only are we afraid of it, but we are causing it. And anyone who can't stand the comparison resorts to obesity and make news. The FMD has changed. It has a political agenda, it produces development policy. Thessaloniki doesn't turn back, however much the New Democracy and their chosen ones like it. The political cultures of Papagoropoulos and Psimadis have been condemned primarily in the awareness of the citizens and not only. Thessaloniki has no room for the far right and we have to finish with a nightmare story. The repeated desecration of the Holocaust Memorial gives us unbearable pain, for such monuments are the imagery of mankind. Therefore, no matter how much spray it spends on bark crosses, Thessaloniki is and will remain a city of light. I call on every progressive citizen, every citizen of Thessaloniki and Northern Greece, to contribute to the creation of a progressive front against right-wing and neoliberalism. We call on him to join forces, to act his dreams, not to stay with the bitter taste of the vain struggle of betrayed visions but with the sweet and fair struggle. We call him equally. In 2019, ladies and gentlemen, it is the first year outside the memorandum. It is the landmark year for productive reconstruction and fair growth that our Prime Minister has envisioned. It is the year of victory of the young people, of the healthy productive forces of society, of the spiritual world of our country. The year of victory of the progressive world of Thessaloniki and northern Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u7	Mrs Vanja from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today for the fourth time to discuss the state budget. Apart from the forecasts of the permanent residents of power, about the so-called left-hand parentheses, we are still here. And that's not all. After many years the first budget is discussed outside the suffocating and dictated frameworks of the memoranda. It is, in fact, admirable to try, especially the Greater One, but not only, Anti-Population, to prove that nothing has changed. There are - it says - commitments. Obviously there are commitments. There's the Stability Pact. There is the case of Italy which is not in a memorandum and we all know what is happening now. You are also accusing us of the high surpluses, which are really high, but are lower than those for which you were negotiating, without finally being able to close any assessments. It is difficult to convince the citizens that white is black, even challenging their common sense. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK - there is unfortunately not someone here for you - former permanent residents of power unfortunately for you and fortunately for the Greek society, you have completely fallen out to all your predictions, both economic and political. So, after almost a decade in a budget extension, a budget that has no budgetary constraints, does not have wage and pension cuts, does not have tax increases. On the other hand, it contains measures to increase social costs and reduce tax rates and insurance contributions. Of course, before we came to the torture for you, just last week, you must also have the suffering of not cutting pensions, which looked very much like - and I was amazed that Mr Antoniadis mentioned it - with the cutter. With the "bulk" cutter you continue to say, that you terrorized Greek society for a year and never came. I understand that it must be difficult to see the opponent succeed where you have failed miserably, as well as I realise that "the gar much of sorrow gives birth to insanity". Unfortunately, your insanity is seriously harming the country. The fact that the positive turn of the economy, the end of the memorials and the real course of exit from the crisis does not serve your political plans, rather than worrying about you, leads you to dangerously shy. I don't know if you're aware of this, but you've failed miserably as memorials. Mr. Vorides isn't here. Despite the agony of the Vice-President of the New Democracy, you have proved yourself incapable even of that. And after all this, instead of just sitting here thinking about your mistakes, your responsibilities and your role as a Professional Opposition, you have resorted to the safe, in your opinion, port of nationalism, once again, indifferent to the interests of the country. You are trying to take advantage of the patriotic feelings, especially of Macedonian citizens, to build careers as young Macedonians, since you failed in all other areas. Of course not only do you not convince anyone, apart from the pictures with the headlines, but you also fear the whole world that you dragged it into impoverishment and now you see that it faces the future with hope. Your foreigner and spasmist behavior is a gift to us and suits us in electoral terms. It does not, however, work for the country and it is not useful for the political system and society, the Great Opposition to be in another universe. From your speeches, it seems so. The bad news is that in this catastrophic situation, New Democracy is not alone. She's following her, and sometimes she's out of PASOK. The bad PASOK, just the PASOK. Neither the DISSY nor the KINAL. That PASOK who doesn't even respect himself. That PASOK that, as a caricature now, with incredible arrogance and small magnification, calls us to leave. Where? From the home of power where a permanent tenant is the Prime Minister, whose half cabinet is in prison. Mrs. Gennamata, we have suffered a lot as a people from your works and modernistic days, but we have not suffered lobotomy. I have devoted most of my speech to the political environment and opposition, because I believe that the debate on the budget is a purely political debate and is also an informal vote of confidence in the respective government. Of course I will also attempt self-criticism, which you do not, the Civic Opposition and not just the Opposition as a whole. We obviously didn't do everything right. Apparently there are mistakes, there are failures, there are injustices. We took over the country's governance in 2015, a bankrupt country, with society in collapse and the struggle and agony from the beginning was to get out of the crisis with society upright. We did that. And we did so, since the strongest members of society supported the weakest members of society and this is happening in a society of people. That's the principle we're going on. In fact, large sums have been used to support financially weaker development sometimes at the expense of the less weak. And so we have reached the point that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is, in fact, in a difficult position and that must be reversed. It is this medium-term entrepreneurship, which has paid the crisis and has resulted in the destruction of 27% of unemployment, which we have received. And it is small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which can pull the cart out of the mud and we must immediately strengthen it. The reduction in insurance contributions is in the right direction. They need more. It needs an institutional framework, an institutional shield for bureaucracy, for transaction, for digitisation and, of course, it also needs a more and more brave reduction in tax rates. We need businesses, which will have healthy real jobs for workers. We need businesses that will not tax, which will contribute to the development of the country. There is a lot to be done, there is a lot to be done, and there is a lot to be done. We understand the extent of our responsibility at this juncture and know our options. I honestly believe that if we don't, no one will. The other way is the path of insurmountable, extremist neoliberalism. It's the way of the New Democracy, which we know where it leads. In America it is happening and, unfortunately, it is also coming to Europe. We follow the other way. I am therefore voting in favour of the 2019 budget, because I think it is the best for the citizens of recent years. And I am sure that the 2020 budget that will be tabled by the SYRIZA Government and voted by its parliamentary group at this time of year will be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty students and students and two teachers attending the St. Stephanos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, today we are discussing the last budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the government that promised everything to everyone and finally damaged everything and everyone and ended up signing a new inappropriate memorandum, the worst of all, increasing the debt, while it had promised exactly the opposite. We are discussing the last budget, a government that has proved fatal for the country, a government which closed banks, which has lost the great opportunity of quantitative relaxation, which has reintroduced the country to a recession of two years and while it has received an economy that comes out of the recession, it has destroyed it. In the meantime, it has damaged the country and 100 billion euros, just within six months. This is the greatest damage he's ever made to the place. Today, then, we are discussing its last budget, another anti-government budget for overtaxation and overcrowding. There is no substantial plan, only party imperialism. They're staring to share crumbs, maybe they're limiting their party debacle. But from four years ago, Mr President, we have also been able to make certain comparisons with the past on measurable terms. In the period between 2012 and 2014, the Samara government decreased deficits, decreased dues, reduced insurance contributions and reduced debt. I mean, he used to house everything and pave the way to growth. In the following years, therefore, since 2014, Mr. Tsipras has done exactly the opposite. He increased the debt, increased the insurance contributions, did not pay the dues and created these unnecessary surpluses, which paralyse the Greek economy. And it has not only affected the private sector through overtax, but it has systematically destroyed the public sector. The banks in 2014, ladies and gentlemen, had thirty times more capitalisation than they have now, and the public banking portfolio was at EUR 20 billion. All that's gone away now. PPC, the largest company in the country, in 2014 had six times as much capitalisation as it has today. I can sum up, Mr President. The economic policy of the Government of Tsipras - Kamnos is summarized in a single phrase. Wild overtaxation. Since 2015, twenty-nine new taxes have been introduced. Mr President, the answer to this policy will be given by the country's Prime Minister tomorrow, Mr Mitsotakis, whose government will reduce taxes and contributions everywhere, bringing back incentives for work and for entrepreneurship to a greater income immediately, but above all will trigger growth, investment and create hundreds of thousands of jobs, because Kyriakos Mitsotakis will reduce VAT across the focus industry to 13% of the 24% that is today and then 11% for all the tourist package of focus and hotels. It will reduce the tax rate on natural persons to 9% for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 from 22% currently in force. It will reduce the corporate tax to 20% of 29% today and dividends to 5% of 15%. It will gradually reduce the contributions for the main pension from 20% today to 15% and reduce HISFIA for all Greeks by 30% in the first two years. That's what Mr. Mitsotakis will do. Mr President, I also have to comment on the Ministry of Digital Policy, which I am following as part of my institutional role in Civic Opposition. I do not have much to say about that, Mr President, and I will tell you why. Because this ministry just doesn't do anything about digital politics. If you look at the implementation of the national digital strategy, the completion of specific projects is at a very low rate. Most of them, by 60% to 70%, are in the spasms. Besides, I don't have to say anything. The market, by the way, has not fallen 1 euro from Community funds to projects which were planned. I will say that the Minister, Mr Papapas, yesterday morning - I have it here with me, Mr President - after this terrible terrorist attack at the SKAI television station, which jeopardized people's lives, later in the day, came out with a tweet saying: 'In the morning we condemned the attack'. To reach agreement, instead of considering who has armed these hands, instead of self-criticizing, instead of dealing with this issue, he said this. I read Mr Pappa's tweet: 'We condemned the attack early in the morning. We asked for it not to be worked out." Yes, sir. 'Until noon', he says, 'the anticipated consequence has been achieved'. "The bombers," they say, "inspired and guided the absence of SYRIZA MPs from SKAI". An argument from the grey zone between vulgar and ridiculous’. That's what he tells us. Who is now talking about tooling to get in touch? The Minister, who has worked on the information or rather attempted to do it with his anti-constitutional law, who has drafted all his powers, has worked on what he has at his disposal, on public television, making the vulgar and provocative liar propaganda. Apparently the Minister has a different definition. He doesn't think it vulgar to say, let's say, Mr. Polakis that he'll put journalists under the earth, that he'll plant them under the earth! That's not vulgar! It is not ridiculous to ban SKAY because a reporter comes out - look out, because that was where it started - and it says the Prime Minister will soon squash the Chief of Police and Firefighting and then one day that happens! And that is why we are putting an embargo and we are not thinking after the terrorist attack yesterday, if this thing is to be discussed again. We're talking about something vulgar. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] He didn't seem vulgar and it didn't seem strange to him, it didn't seem ridiculous to him that two years ago Mr. Kammenos had come out and said he wondered how no one's blown up any channels that are, I know, in Piraeus or in Faliro. These don't look vulgar and ridiculous to him. It seems to him that this argument is being gracious. The man who even did the Greek Posts! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am closing and thanking you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u11	Complete, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u12	So today I was reading that he has received four special advisers in ELTAs, which are on the brink of bankruptcy, with EUR 4,200 per month and EUR 250 per month for fuel and car and telephone and whatever you want. Now if he has also worked, like Mr. Kalogrisa, who in the contest played the role of putting some past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past past year past year past year past year past year past year's past year's herals as a mortgage, I don't know, or like now his childhood friend, Mr. Petsitis, who does not know if it's a tool in extraterrestrial packages, which suddenly takes great wages, I don't know if he has worked for them too. Let him answer for himself. In any case one day will consider all this justice, I do not prejudge it. I close, Mr President, by saying that the unpleasant news is that the government brings another anti-development budget with wild overtaxation and surpluses. But the good news is that he's the last. He's the last, because you're leaving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform the House of the speakers and the programming of the afternoon. There are therefore 11 other speakers missing, two parliamentary representatives who did not speak yesterday and will speak today and five ministers, other than the financial staff, Mr Juliarakis and Mr Tsakalotou, who will speak at the end. So speakers, parliamentary representatives and ministers with a calculation and with a relative galantomy in time we estimate that it is about three and a half hours. Therefore, you will calculate that about 14.30' to 15.00' will complete the list of all those that I have said together, and only the ministers of the financial staff, Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Juliarakis, will remain, and we will enter into the procedure for the interventions of the political leaders. That's about the programming we're planning and we'll see him along the way. Mrs. Inglezi from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. If I follow Mrs Asimakopoulou's reasoning, as you do, can we wait for a bombing of the ERT, which her party has banned? I hope not. You put a bomb on your own once on your own at the ERT when you closed it. In 2018, we are called upon to present our strategy for next year by voting on the budget. This year, however, there is a warning difference over the previous years, as in 2018 it was the year that the fruits of our efforts to get out of the memorials. The labors and sacrifices of the Greek people, along with the steady steps of the SYRIZA government, have therefore taken place and thus starting from 2019, we are constantly returning to a period of normality. This year's budget is the first memorandum from the start of the crisis, so it marks a new era. It is the budget that highlights our development strategy, not only for the year ahead, but also for the years ahead. At the same time, it promotes social cohesion, because for the first time we are able to develop our social policy with freedom, a policy which in no way conflicts with our objectives of budgetary stability, does not in any way have the form of impulseism, but of real benefits to those most affected by the economic crisis. Unfortunately, for New Democracy, the attempt to terrorise the Greek people and catastrophe break down once again. The 2019 budget - unfortunately for opposition - is the budget that does not impose any new taxes. On the contrary, it provides for a reduction in the burden both through the mid-term reduction of HPAI and through the reduction of the tax on legal persons and dividends. It is the budget that does not provide for any pension cut, so the account that New Democracy had invested so much. It is the budget which provides for a body of positive measures. Two thousand two hundred recruits for the "Help at Home", four thousand five hundred teachers in Special Education, a housing subsidy with income criteria. We, ladies and gentlemen, support the world of work. We are trying to reduce unemployment to young people. That is why we are subsidising half the insurance contributions for the recruitment of young people. That's why we're expanding collective agreements and increasing the minimum wage. That's why we're abolishing the underpaid wage. That is why we have already voted to reduce insurance contributions to two hundred and fifty thousand free professionals, scientists and farmers. That is why we abolished the trade fee for agricultural and school cooperatives and social and cooperative enterprises. I stress that with what I describe, I do not attempt to triumph. There is still work to be done to get our country to the level she deserves. I am quite clear, however, that our objectives, our political planning, are radically different from that of the Anti-Population. Our development strategy revolves around an upgraded social state, an upgraded public health and public education, a modern and effective public administration. We are completing development projects which should have been completed for decades, such as the Land register, forest maps and spatial planning. For the first time in this budget funds are recorded to finance the protected areas, as we committed ourselves to the relevant legislative framework that we voted on a few months ago. Four times the funds related to the grant of management bodies for protected areas from EUR 450,000 to EUR 2,2 million are available. This is not a simple accounting but a clear application of environmental policy, which assesses NATURA as a valuable resource for the country and finances their protection and management. I hope in next year's budget that we can also assess the permanent recruitment of workers to the management bodies of the protected areas through the procedures provided for, but also recruitment to all the environmentally critical bodies, such as the Forest Service, the Environment Inspectorate and others. I should also like to point out that the implementation of the ministerial decision to reduce the consumption of plastic bags has brought revenues that have led to more than double the performances of the Greek Recycling Agency from EUR 5 000 000 to EUR 11 000 000, revenues that are a clear compensation fee. This means that the Greek Recycling Agency will have at its disposal 6,000,000 euros to proceed to further actions in 2019 to reduce the use of the plastic bag, while returning this resource to society. This is a tangible example of the implementation of environmental protection policies and of how society is directly benefiting from them. I must point out, of course, that expenditure on forest protection is kept at EUR 6.2 million and in 2019. An amount of EUR 17,5 million is also provided in this budget for the granting of a discount of electricity to domestic consumers in the Region of Western Macedonia and the Municipality of Megalopolis, Arcadia, due to the operation of lignite mines and power plants. Colleagues and colleagues, the 2019 budget may be the first memorial budget that we bring to Parliament, but we still have a long way to go. But one thing is absolutely certain. We have long been removed from the destructive scenarios of counterpopulation. The country has returned a page. The budget, strategies and legislative work planned for 2019 aim to further stabilise the Greek economy, upgrade the conditions for its sustainable development and strengthen the international position and credibility of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-two students and students and three teachers attending the St. Stephanos High School, the second session this time. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Tsiaras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, each of us, at some point, has obviously been found talking to someone who likes to speak impressive achievements. The way of telling these people is probably fascinating. And, of course, there are feelings of admiration or possibly acceptance, in a way that in a very large way makes us think a lot. The problem in these cases is when the age of contradiction comes, when what one tells and is admirable does not meet with reality and when this puzzle of fine account breaks up, since life itself, reality itself through contradictions and through the differences itself comes to prove that all that is said is not really. Apparently, I'm talking about these people, who are more liked in mythology, mythology. The reality and the reason why I am referring to all this is that, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with all that you say, you have actually brought 'political mythology' as a practice of a dimension, if you like, which the Greek society itself lives for. In this Chamber these days of the budgetary debate, the top bill every year for the Greek Parliament, everything has been said and precisely their opposite! You said it was right to overtax the middle class, since that was where you had to draw resources. At the same time you said that you were right to reduce taxation, because at some point that had to be stopped. You said that it was right to increase insurance contributions with the well-known Katorugalou law, which in passing led thousands of our young people abroad outside Greece. At the same time, you are rejoice and praised for yourself, who manage to break down the Katorugalos law, making him virtually a useless previous legislative initiative. You know, before you took authority, you said you would take Greece out of the time of the memorials. Do you really think the Greek society is standing right now? Do you believe that Greek citizens have achieved through this incomprehensible overtaxation, through this incredible burden burden, to feel that they have a government that has served them and made the necessary steps to feel quiet and safe? In a few days, it is practically four years since you took over the country's governance. Societies, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, unfortunately, rather than standing up, are kneeling. Aren't you really the ones who said you would support the social state, that you would support the weak? How do you do that? With the abolition of CSR as from 1 January 2019? Didn't you say we were coming out of the memorandum? How is that possible? With the additional application of measures which have made commitments in the Memorandum Type Country? Didn't you promise, did the Prime Minister himself say that there will be new investments in the country? He said it last year at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. How's that gonna happen? With the re-cutting of the Public Investment Programme by EUR 550 million? Didn't you say you'd take the country out on the markets? Four months after the end of the third programme not only have you not taken the country's economy out of the market, but rather you have taken us out of the markets for undetermined time, which none of us today knows. The Minister of Finance was found in the United States, in Invest in Greece, New York, and there many investors came. I am referring to a press release a few days ago. Everyone has expressed reasonable questions about how the Greek economy will eventually be able to find itself on the markets and be able to recover. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the questions were not just reasonable, but they became strong, and in fact data were made, showing that the Greek economy cannot recover. In my previous speech, from the Step of the Greek Parliament, I had told you that you should not move the finger in the Opposition for the alleged exit from the markets. You know very well that the timeline on the markets has fallen out. In fact in January 2019 we will be where we were in January 2018, but unfortunately with further uncertainties, with much higher borrowing interest rates and, of course, with the feeling that the Greek economy has not yet found its way. Ladies and gentlemen, it is, in essence, the recent period of the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. I have to tell you that you are finally leaving with a specific reference to your favorite color. Your favorite color is red. Unfortunately, everything in Greece on the basis of the economic indicators is in the'red'. Red loans are in'red' - and you know it well - creating asphyxiation to the banking system. The government's overdue debts are in the'red', giving a real feeling that the state cannot be consistent even in this difficult period towards the citizens who give their services to it. The overdue debts of citizens to the state are in the'red', and is the result of a savage overtaxation which, especially in this period, has produced other data. Do you want to talk about competitiveness and indicators in the economy? They, unfortunately, are in 'deep red'! With regard to business and economic freedom,'red deep' and here,'red' to opacity,'red' to independence of institutions! Unfortunately, our country is not in the course or in the direction that we would all hope and wish for. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Greek society is looking for a new account, not a new account in the logic of the story you submitted from 2014 and 2015: "with fine, fake, big words", but through a narrative that describes in a very specific way how the Greek economy should be directed, so that we can all see what we hope, namely how and from where we will attract resources, to where we can direct them, so that the economic reality of the average Greek citizen is better, that Greeks, young people, Greeks and Greeks can find a job here in our homeland, support their own presence and support their own life. This is not done by attempting to divide Greek society. It is not with the logic of division that some systematically attempt to survive politically. It is done through a serious effort and the political system, but much more all of us that can serve it, showing that only with united Greek society, only through specific realistic goals that may be set, we can go to the next day. You realize that all of this is now in a different from your own account. It's the New Democracy account. It is the account of the President of the New Democracy and tomorrow's Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who are now increasingly watching, more and more closely Greek citizens. Obviously I am voting against the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u17	Mr Ursouzidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to condemn, in my turn, the incredible energy against SKAI and, at the same time, to say that such disgraceful practices, all they do is throw water into the mill of viciousness and dilemma. As far as the budget is concerned, you do not like it, it is the first budget after the memorials, which you have put us into, with a great deal of effort, I would say for many decades. That government of Mr. Tsipras is the one taking us out of the memos. That's what's gonna write the story. That's the reality. What characterizes this budget is undoubtedly the non-reduction of pensions, a measure imposed by the IMF and which has resulted in prudent management and respect for citizens' burdens at the end of achieving a goal. We worked hard to make everything we received in 2015, what went wrong with our country. The people now have tangible examples of behaviour and will be invited to choose between those who have taken Greece out of the recession, the implementation of an economic policy that ensures recovery and social cohesion, without jeopardising public finances, which have honoured the confidence of the people, who have not looted, who have not abused their fighting and sacrifices, and those who have bankrupt the country and sent it to the memorial adventure, who have kneeled, who have placed the six measures in the middle class and have condemned Greek society to poverty and eight years of impoverishment. Their only concern is to take the reunion, to defeat at all costs, to justify those who have despised the Greek people, and who today completely undisturbed, unwittingly and undemocraticly provide them with every possible support, using all means, legitimately and unfairly. This is the democracy they believe in. They have the power, they have money - easy money - they always looked forward to it. It is this "broken" money, which was given to them handy to secure political support. It is the same dirty money that is now lacking and literally ravaged. However, we will not allow the subsidized "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS" and the national contractors to regain against the Greek people. They tempted all their opposition tactics in the pension cut. They demanded from the institutions, fought Mr Moscovisi because he reacted to the further impoverishment of pensioners and, literally, gave it all up and lost. They brutally insulted the Greek people, ignoring their sacrifices and response to the attempt to recover the economy from the tartars that had brought it. They appealed to the Greek citizens, saying that the non-subtraction of pensions does not concern the sacrifices of the Greek people and the tight, without waste, management of the financial staff, but came in exchange for the Prespecies Agreement. So let's see how things are going. The very consequences of this policy for many years have been overthrown by us. I will immediately explain what I mean, in order to understand how we have been through the years of deficits in surpluses over a billion euro in 2018 to EKKA in the midst of a terrible crisis. First of all, rationalisation through reductions in insurance contributions has helped many free professionals to respond. Settlement of debts by haircuts, with the known 100 instalments, gave the opportunity to re-activate, reduce unemployment and increase revenues to the ECA. We must now have a new arrangement. The street's asking for it. As far as taxation is concerned, it has to be reduced. That's our choice. As for you and the farmers, for whom you have recently been very much cut, I will put the question you raised to the then Minister, Mrs Valvain, concerning the determination of income, in which, apart from purchase invoices, you have said, Community compensation, aid, direct payments, compensatory payments and quality premiums will be taken into account. In this way, you said - the level of net agricultural income to be taxed is expected to increase significantly consistently to increase the final tax burden. You asked the Minister at the time: 'Do you intend to table direct legislation on exemption from tax on Community subsidies?' Listen. Even the allowances you hired in determining the taxable income. Do you want me to read to you who signed the question? It was the gentlemen. Charakopoulos, Tsiaras, Karaoglou, Skrekas, Bukoros, Stylianides, Stylion, Salmas, Panagiotopoulos, Kosaglis, Javaras. I ask the relevant question about the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Ursouzidis, presents for the minutes the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second part to which I must obviously refer is this report. This report is the report of the European Court of Auditors, number 9 of 2018. It refers to absolutely necessary projects, of course, which concern infrastructure, to improving the conditions on the Greek roads. So it says the report: "For only three projects, Olympia road, Morea and Central Road between 2000 and 2014, we have paid EUR 1.2 billion more than they considered". I have attributes a part of the exhibition: "The construction of the three motorways in Greece has been considerably delayed. This has consequences, it is not without consequences if anyone is on a secondary road network or on a modern road network. The victims are much less, they are 9% on the modern road network and over 50% on the secondary road. And that also has economic implications." It is therefore also the renegotiation, which has resulted in significant additional costs of EUR 1.2 billion, which has been borne by the public sector, even though the object of the projects has been significantly reduced. The work of the Olympian road decreased by 45%, to 55% the work of the central Greece. In particular, since the renegotiation of the four road corridors - Ionian road, Olympia, E65, Morocco - a total of EUR 744,477,733 was saved. So this piece alone accounts for 0.45% of GDP, that is to say the 70% of the surplus we currently have in the ECA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Show me one more minute, Mr President, your tolerance. If you do not always take into account, according to the European Court of Auditors, the fact that an additional EUR 1.2 billion has been paid, while, as I said before, 55% and 45% respectively of the roads, you understand that not only the pensions would be cut, but the matter would be whether they would be paid. This was the reality, the "Jungle of 2014" with the sucess story and the people in despair, where the convenient state drones of the media, the interlocutory, were united in the struggle against the impoverishment of the Greek citizens, loyal to the doctrine "your life, my death". This has changed definitively. We have guaranteed universal access to a million and a half unsafe citizens - the self-evident and the beneficial to Greek society - we have supported the public schools, the future, the hope of this place. We have reduced the huge burdens of insured persons - self-evident energy for recovery - we have saved the insurance system, ensuring order with a continuous struggle. We have attributed to the citizens what you deprived them of, dignity, saving tens of thousands of fellow citizens from despair. We've completed four years of administration, no financial scandals and complexion. The result is for citizens to regain confidence in the administration. The biggest, most important thing we have to offer is this relationship of trust between citizens and administration. Never borrowing again! We rely on our own powers, we have excellent primary sector, wonderful tourist structures. We can continue honestly and clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u19	We're continuing with Mr. Brutsis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too join my voice, with the overwhelming majority of the Greek people condemning terrorist and criminal action against "Kathimerini" and "SKAI" essentially the terrorist and criminal action against democracy, pluralism and freedom. The message is one: Fascist elements won't win, they won't filthy, they can't threaten, they can't scare democracy. My political body, New Democracy - and I say this because the moments we live are historic in the face of these terrible events - is the political body that restored democracy, which believed and believed in democracy and democratic institutions. He is the political body called New Democracy, which has acted on national reconciliation. He did something more important, in the political history of the country, the New Democracy with its MPs, with the leaders of the capital, from Constantine Karamanlis to tomorrow's Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, always has the great ecosystem, the basic principle that the Greek people only progress together and not divided. We believe, believe and believe in the unity of the Greek people. And we condemn any political system, trying to divide and invest in the Greek division.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u21	Are you condemning treason?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, this budget - and I address the government - is not just the last of SYRIZA, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, is something else. In 2019 - remember, colleagues of SYRIZA and you will remember - it will be SYRIZA's fateful year. It will be the year - Waterloe for SYRIZA and SYRIZA - ANEL. It will be defeated by state and you will break the following record: it will be the first time in the modern history of our country, which the government will lose in four ballots in all four elections. You will be defeated both in municipal and regional elections and in national elections! It will be the SYRIZA crash in 2019! That's why time counts, it's ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u23	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u24	But in the consciousness of the Greek people, except that you will be registered as the government that said the greatest lies, which never existed in the past, you will also be registered as the most enduring government that the place has known. You are the government, which in the conscience of the Greek people will be registered - and you have already registered - that it has turned Greece into a vast hotspot. You are the government that, in the conscience of the Greek people, brought this nationally harmful Skopje agreement. You are the government that has abolished the low-pension NSA. You are the government that has abolished the VAT on the islands of the Aegean. You're the government that brought the team redundancies. You are the government, which invests in national division. And you're the government that did something inconceivable. He delivered the country's national wealth for ninety-nine years. For example, in my prefecture, the Cyclades Prefecture, with the tens, with the hundred archaeological monuments, I have asked several questions, to tell me which of the twelve thousand codes you have given to the excess, belong to the monuments, the archaeological sites of the Cyclades. And you're not answering. What are you hiding? But it'll look very soon. I now come to the essence of a few issues. I heard Mr Tsakalotos, with a terrifying nerve coming to the side of the New Democracy and asking 'if you were a government, wouldn't you reduce pensions? How much would you reduce them?’ That's exactly what he said. So, ladies and gentlemen, I come here to answer Mr Tsakalotos, who was the right hand of Mr Varoufakis, co-responsible for the country's financial derailment. I submit to the National Representation for once this text, which is a disgrace on the part of the SYRIZA and shows its responsibility. This is the first proportionate study of our country's insurance system. It came out in 2014 and has the signature of the institutions. This study, Mrs Papanatiou Minister for Finance, shows that no other pension cuts were needed. It is the first study of the system, which proves to the pensioners who are listening to us, that after 2014 no other pension cuts were needed. I'm taking the analogy study. Please give it to Mr Tsakalotos, to the Members of SYRIZA, finally to read it, so that they know what a crime they have committed against retired people in the country and the national economy. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time I come to say a few things about the living situation. Listen: The EUR 13.67 billion in debts of the insurance funds you launched them at EUR 34.3 billion with CRL data. You know I have the fatherhood of the CEAO as Minister of Labour, I created it. You've complained that you're gonna burn it and now you're using it, but you're doing well and you're keeping it. The economy would have been blown up without it. I'm filing this element. Take it, please. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have launched parttime work at 62.05% for the first time in the history of the labour market. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] According to the ILO's report, which you refer to, it appears that the wages in 2014 rose by 1,9% and SYRIZA in 2017 with ILO reduced by 3.5% the private sector employees' wages. I'm filing that, too. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am tabling the Eurostat report on poverty. Eurostat says Greece is the last country in Europe to deal with poverty. I also present this to show your nakedness and inability. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will say a word about the budget of the EPC to the National Representation, as a whole. The budget of the EPC, which I tabled, is your budget - listen to what it is doing. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Firstly, it incorporates all previous reductions in previous Memorandums. So don't talk about cutting back on the older ones. You incorporated them through the Katrugalu law. You assimilated them, made them your estate. Secondly, new pension cuts appear, 35% in the main pensions. It's in SYRIZA's budget. Thirdly, there appears to be the political fraud and smuggling of SYRIZA, because in the budget of EFKA, which I tabled, there are no surpluses in 2017 and 2018. There are deficits. Fourthly, the EBRD budget, as you have tabled, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in 2019 will require brave funding and has no surplus of 256 million, as you say, but will have a very large deficit that you will cover. Watch out: I'm not saying it's gonna be blown up in the air. We are not SYRIZA to say vineyards and air words. It will be financed by the state budget. It'll do well, but there's a deficit. I'm coming to speak in particular. You say that in 2017 you had a surplus of 715 million. If you look at the code 6000, you will see that you have provided emergency funding of 1 billion. Actually, you got money, you put it in, and you show it for a surplus while it's a deficit. Three hundred million deficit in 2017, EFKA, in 2018 581 million surplus. You took 1 billion again, put it as an emergency income and presented it as a surplus. Wrong. A deficit of 450 million EFKA in 2018. In 2019 you have not seen - because you know you will not handle it - 1 billion extra revenues. You show 245 million surplus, showing something about 2019. I challenge the government. So keep the video you want. The budget for the EBRD that you have tabled will require a change very soon. It's a corrupt smuggling budget. It is the first time in the history of the Ministry of Labour, which dares Minister and political system to say that there are surpluses, when - to hear the argument - in 2017 pension expenditure was 25.5 billion and only 9 billion. I mean, I have an opening of 16 billion. The budget is not a deficit. It's a redistributive system. Where's the surplus? I have a budget of EUR 16 billion in 2018, EUR 25.2 billion in pension expenditure. Revenue, according to your own figures, is 9.1 billion from contributions. Once again, 16 billion 'inside' budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Brutsi, finish it up. We're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. For 2019: 24.9, i.e. 25 billion again, revenues of 9.5 billion. Budget deficit. There's a little shame in that, isn't there? I'm on my way to the government. To transfer this to Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Petropoulos and to the entire Ministry of Labour that misleads the members of the SYRIZA, who speaks of surpluses, while we have deficits. You started lying, you won the election with lies, you maintained four years with lies, you'll lose again with lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Charilaos Tsakalis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2019 comes after the completion of the three-year economic adjustment programme and the country's exit to markets and almost five months after the Greek State debt relief agreement. The 2019 budget, after about a decade, is the first budget, which does not contain budgetary constraints, but budgetary expansion measures. It contains countermeasures, without measures. Not only does it include the measure of the pension cut, but it starts in 2019 a package of countermeasures completed in 2022. The government's aim is to gradually return the sacrifices to those who "pay the marble", in the end, in a safe, sustainable and social law. The Opposition denounces that the country only formally came out of the programme and that, in essence, it remains locked in the Memorandum. The government explains by deeds what the exit from the memorials means. It means reintroducing collective agreements, it means converting the contracts of three thousand workers into the "Help at Home" programme from one to an indefinite period. It means hiring as a permanent four thousand five hundred people for special treatment. They are specialised teachers and other qualified staff, who will no longer conclude fixed-term contracts and will therefore not be in the employment insecurity situation. It means the rental subsidy, which is redefined by more targeted criteria. It means reducing by 1/3 the insurance contributions for freelance professionals, self-employed and farmers. It means the application of the minimum income base for subsidiary insurance and one-off provision. It means subsidising youth insurance contributions. It means reducing HISPIA by 10%, and 30% for low and medium-incomes. This concerns 3.5 million owners, 60% of the owners. It means a small, even a reduction in income tax. It means reducing unemployment, which is already at 18.6% from 27% in 2015. It means abolishing one by one in the recruitment of the government to meet the urgent needs that the Memorandums have caused. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] The financial extension, channelled to social relief measures for the weaker, moves within the limits set by the 2019 budget area and is therefore fully compatible with the country's budgetary objective. That is not how the important financial credibility chapter, which has been accumulated in recent years by the sacrifices of the citizens, is not broken up. The objectives have been exceeded and this gives the government a margin of return for part of the surplus, in the form of a social dividend, of EUR 710 to EUR 720 million. However, what is more important than the quantitative elements and figures is the qualitative characteristics of the economy today, which demonstrates that we have entered a stable recovery track. There is an increase in GDP, resulting from the increase in private consumption, the contribution of investment to GDP and the increase in exports. Particularly positive for 2019 prospects is the two-digit increase in net exports, which had a decade-old record and the expected increase in tourist visits. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has proved to be in about four years' time, which governs that it firmly completes its objectives. He has proved to be responsible for the country. It has proved to be sensitive and fair to society and the world of work. It has recovered the country's lost credibility, vis-à-vis its partners in the European Union and the international factor. It has shown that it consistently combats corruption and complexity, despite the obstacles it faces. That's why the Greek people will trust her again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u29	Mr Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard from everyone - and this is a delight - the unequivocal condemnation of terrorist action against the SCAI. Of course, for a government, conviction is not enough. Convict is a political statement. She's worth it. But for a government it is not enough, because it has to arrest, lead to the judge and punish those who have done so. So that's a question. But I also heard that you were sad, because Mr. Alfouzo named you as morals.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u31	We're indignant, not sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u32	My colleague's indignant.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u33	We're outraged.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u34	Another colleague is outraged. Don't record the diversity of emotions, it's not the point there. It is a moral automobile that persuaded me and taxed someone to act illegally. These apply to criminal law. Obviously, here the word and designation are not used, in the sense of criminal law. It's used politically. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u35	So criminalize politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u36	It is used politically, because you will all agree - terrorism has a territory on which it is cultivated and there are specific messages that the government - each government - sends against the phenomenon. And you've sent messages. You sent a message when you abolished Type III prisons, which are to keep the terrorists. You sent a message! You sent messages, giving permission to convicted terrorists. You sent a message! You have sent a message when you have downgraded security and security policies. You sent a message. Not only that, but it opens up a further debate, interesting. How's a terrorist? He wakes up on a nice day, a man from where he was normal, went to work, decides to build explosives, and he's going to put bombs? Is that how a terrorist is? Doesn't he have a ride?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u37	Tell us where you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u38	I like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that every time, when these issues arise, you want to talk about the axe. I have no objection to debate - very gladly - but we will discuss all the violence of the extreme left, the terrorism of the extreme left, the violence in the universities, the iniquity of the attacks that each of us has taken on board.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u39	What's that about? What ax? We don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u40	Hey, I'm telling your colleagues, Mr. Philly. Ask them to explain. We have data in our debate, so we move on faster. We haven't been telling the whole story since the beginning. So I come to this. Violent extremism and radicalisation, which lead to terrorism - by the way, I use the terms of the UN Security Council by resolutions that your own government has voted for, it was unanimous, I am not saying 'only', but your own government has supported them too - have an underground in which they are cultivated. The ratio of hatred and targeting are key reasons for the development of extremism, which leads to terrorism. So consider your responsibilities, in this regard, and your political responsibilities, for targeting, for the reasons of hatred, for the 'German german germans', for the 'or we or them' and for all this environment, which you have created, on which you have obviously a certain extremist behaviour, which at certain times can also lead to terrorism. So that is your responsibility, and I have explained to you the concept of moral automation, because you complain about it. As far as the budget is concerned, what is this budget? Condensation of a four-year course. I would say that the most beautiful thing to remember, ladies and gentlemen, you know, has said it again - once again - Mr Paulakis: 'Four years first left'. They close and you have to make an account. With all this burden you claim the Left has, i.e. the people with the great ideas, the unselfish, the ones with the offer to the fellowman, who persecuted them and were chased and wronged and all of them had something terrible clever and good to do, but the evil system wouldn't let them do it, they finally came to power and sat down four years and they have to make an account. And what did the great Paul say? Let's put no one in jail, 'cause otherwise we don't win elections. After four years of power, what you are waiting for to win elections and convince the Greek people to vote for you again, is as if you were imprisoning any political opponent. How do you like this for a left account? Tragedy, isn't it? But tragedy that the Greek people live in. Why, what's left as a print? Do you know what's left of it? As a fingerprint, the excess and the commitment of the public property for a hundred years remains - who expected it - which was requested by everyone and that was not given by anyone. There's a price left for our legacy to be transferred to Macedonia. This consideration is still a fingerprint, which will accompany you forever, this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u41	Did we get Vebber?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u42	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u43	You say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u44	I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u45	Why do you say that? Why should we be ashamed, in your opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u46	The transaction, who did we do it with?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u47	Now, Mr. Papadopoulos, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u48	But it does.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u49	Can Mr. Voridis make a 15-minute speech? That way, that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u50	It's causing.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Papadopoulos, a position cannot cause you. You must have, you, a democratic man, tolerance in opinions that are heard. You don't have to revolt. You'll hear them and answer them. So, of course, it is in return and, indeed, in return. Why? Because you are coming to ensure that the measure that you have adopted on pensions is lifted, which you are celebrating, with the approval and in agreement, obviously, of all those who have imposed you - you are saying - to legislate. Yeah, why did they force it on you? They have imposed on you at a time when you are suddenly the favorites of the entire European establishment. All European officials in the field of Mr. Tsipras were believable. By'revolutionary','reverser', 'Fidel Castle', 'Che Guevara', of the Mediterranean, suddenly 'driving pet','revolved in European courtyards' to show what was good left became, what a good and exemplary European, what a prudence! Hey, a little present, since he took care of the Skopje issue, don't get it? And you're sad about that in return? Are you sorry to say so, and you're not sad that you did it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u52	Maybe something more thoughtful?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u53	What remains as a legacy is the crushing of the middle class, heavy taxation, the extermination of insurance contributions, the reduction of pensions, the excess, lawlessness, the chaos in universities, the release of dangerous criminals that kill people. So this is the legacy. This is the legacy of SYRIZA now, the time begins when this is happening:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Voridis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u55	I shall conclude, Mr President, because this is the finest moment and the most interesting one.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u56	Yeah, but let's finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u57	It's time that citizens know what they're asking? With endurance, a deafening endurance ask, "When will they finally leave?" The time you leave weighs. SYRIZA's defeat will be a strategy and a positive one will stay out of your governance. 'From the first time on the left', our people will say 'Never again'.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u58	The Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nikos Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u59	I think the position of the previous speaker makes it very easy to base the view that the New Democracy has turned into the People's Orthodox Alert of our times. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Hate for the Left, not because of the common good. Watch out. Mr Vorides ended with a phrase, which until now thrived on the lips of the Members of the Golden Dawn, Mr Vorides. Look at the latest minutes. You said all about how much we have destroyed the country. I'll see you around. But would it also be an opportunity, because you still have speakers, to tell us and what the institutional measures you need to take, so that the Left does not rule again, so that this does not happen again, that is to say, to make your motto happen: 'Never again'? We have a Constitutional Review procedure, we would listen to you with a very great deal of interest. You, of course, returned to the theory of exchanging pensions for Macedonian. What does the people understand? He understands that if the non-genus, your party was in the government, we would have both Macedonian unresolved and the pensions cut. That was the prospect. And the pensions would be cut because they were on your schedule and the Macedonian would be unsolved, because some gentlemen from your resignation and of course you're careering on this issue. I think, however, that here too, we should also stand by the fact that they were reproduced by this step of vulgarity and misery, which were evoked yesterday by the owner of the SCAI TV station Mr Alfouzo. And I think that is sad about the New Republic's resignation. The bombing of the television station is completely doomed, without a second word, they are appalling, detestable and sentenced without stars and "yes, but". And the misery, which was eviscerated yesterday, is absolutely irrelevant. We are intact on the side of the workers. We are firmly opposed to anyone who chooses violence, puts people's lives at risk and tries to hurt our democracy. It was also heard 'who will be the legacy of the left and what will be the account?' What will be the balance sheet? 27% of unemployment with 18%. And some of you say that unemployment has fallen because there is immigration. There are three hundred and fifty thousand new jobs. That's where we started, and what did we pick up? We received derailed fiscally, accumulated and unsolved debts, and at the moment Greece has and has settled its budgets and a debt profile, which has the greatest maturity in the world - mark it, look it up and see it - and the lower financial needs of all the countries of the European Union. That's what we do, with the heavy legacy that your government has left on both national issues and the economy. This government has come to solve problems and will solve them. Could we, ladies and gentlemen, be here today and discuss expansionary budgets within Parliament and discuss how much people will get and how much will they be reduced if the political change of 2015 had not taken place? No, no, never again. Because your perspective was absolutely clear in front of the world. And if you want historical conclusions, the central one is one: in Greece two recipes have been applied during the crisis, one recipe, which has dissolved society and launched unemployment and brought it to 27% and a recipe, which has stabilised the economy, has also set society at its feet and is systematically casting unemployment. The positive signs for the economy, from all sides: A positive trade balance, an increase in exports, an increase in manufacturing turnover, an increase in tourism, an increase in trade. Where does destruction occur? Let me tell you where it comes from. It results from your great cancellation, because you are living a post-traumatic shock, the shock of absolute cancellation. You had dressed the euro party since 2012, you said that this party would take the country out of the euro. That's not what happened. And what are you doing right now? You reinvent yourself, redeem him, leave the euro curtain from the front and what remains? It remains the extreme right rhetoric and status and the foundation of a program, such as the Pinochet insurance, where we now have EKKA and has its slogan: "All together more powerful", when we go to your insurance, the insurance system will have a slogan: "The life-saving self, be saved". We have the ENPIA that you said the municipalities would pay him, so the wealthy municipalities could do a job in infrastructure, the poor should not do it. You also have your opposition to the collective negotiations, because they are also the ideas of the Left and the remnants of post-population, where the extreme right suffered overwhelming and chronic ideological and political defeat and they were completely awarded to the eyes of the Greek people. These are the foundations of your programme and these are not the Greek foundations simply, they are the Europeans. And it is no accident that your neighbour and your alliance with Mr. Orban and Mr. Weber - not at all at all - with the forces for immigration, for which you are most popular, say that Greece must undergo all pressure and all its weight on its own against the refugee waves. This is the rapid mutation, which you have suffered and which has very clear imprints on faces. And this is something to be judged by progressive citizens, because against such a type of right, which threatens to turn the country back on both national issues and the economy and on a number of issues, it needs a large progressive front, which will be majority in the September 2019 elections and will guarantee exactly the continuation of this course. Because people are listening to us, we are heard by the farmer and by the free trader, whose contributions will be reduced by 1/3. The micro-owners, whose ENPI will be reduced by 30%, are listening to us. The four hundred thousand employees in foodism, who, by extending the collective agreement, will have an increase in wages. And that's left-wing idealism? Even business people are listening to us, who see the degression of business taxation being voted on. Therefore, I think that the New Democracy account can be cultivated in some television windows, but it really conflicts, with what is happening in Greek society and multipliers now, people feel that things are improving and seeing it in their economic situation. I'll talk for two minutes on digital transformation issues. Digital transformation, ladies and gentlemen, is at the heart of the model of new development, which our Government has founded and serves. These days we have very serious steps to take in two major projects. The total budget for the digital projects made by all public bodies amounts to about 800 million. So quick steps are being taken, coordinated this time, in the context of the national digital policy on the two hundred and twenty projects, but we have two projects, which go too far. Today, we have a contractor for the work of electronic document handling in the public sector. It is a project that will save 400m euros for the Greek taxpayer and will form the basis for the national digital portal, which will be the key hit on bureaucracy and on the lines of citizens and businesses when they trade with the public. The second project, the competition of which will come out in the next few days, is the digital transformation of the agricultural sector. And I also want to thank Commissioner Hogan for his statement a few days ago to the Ministry of Rural Development, where he and my colleague, Mr Arachovitis, said that Greece is now a model and model in the attempt to transform the agricultural sector into the programme of 'Agriculture Accuracy', which will extend to half the agricultural land of Greece and will involve fifteen million acres. At the Ministry - and you will know that, although you do not want to remember - there are now regular and formal licences for television channels. There is a very serious and productive effort now to strengthen audiovisual productions. Almost thirty audiovisual productions have entered the aid programme and are supported by the Public Investment Programme with 35% of the costs incurred in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u60	Did the money go through with it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u61	Of course they pay, Mr. Nicolopoulou. They have paid and paid before the licence procedure, because the former had adopted laws, which provided for taxes, which were not charged. We have collected 150 million even before the licensing process of advertising tax and frequency charges is completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u62	And give for their loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u63	That's the difference of practice. As time is running out, I would like to close with this: we are entering the new year, with a unique and clear target. And in the new year there will be precisely two prospects and two practices. And we are entitled, because you have not changed antenna of what you have done in your previous governance, to say: Two recipes have been tested and these two recipes will be found before the Greek people, who in the vote on the September 2019 elections will also have his insurance system and income and his rights to work and tax, who will pay for his property and he knows and will judge. And that is precisely when the Greek people will guarantee that the course, which threw unemployment from 27% to 17%, will continue at the end of the next four years, progressive governance, our own, unemployment will have taken it to 7% and will not allow the Greek people to return to your own policies to return unemployment to 27%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Minister. My colleague Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I add my voice to the reluctant condemnation and disapproval of the terrorist attack on 'SKAI'. I am troubled, as all of us have done, by Mr Alfouzouzou's announcement, but today, I do not want to add acidity to misery and slander. However, as a journalist, I want to applaud today's reaction of my colleagues "Kathimerini", with the emblematic photograph on the front page of the newspaper and their message: "In violence we respond with our work" and ask, from my own party, as well as from the New Democracy, that we listen to the instigation of Pantelli Boukala in today's excellent timeline. He writes Mr Pantelis Boukalas, in reply to the imaginary Nechayev: "What they should do, government and Census, is to lift the embargo on SKAI and ERT, today, to show practically respect for what they preach in favour of freedom of the press". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is what Pantelis Boukalas says and it is, of course, the responsibility of the political parties that have imposed the bans, to reconsider and decide. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to some of the speakers from the New Democracy in favour of SYRIZA a class-share of his policy, saying that we should not support the interests of the vast majority of society, the interests of the people, that is to say, that we should not stand out, the over-plused oligarch from the precariously employed dealer, that we should also be with the owner of offshore and the low-pensionist. More deeply reactionary position has to be heard in the House since 1976, by the late Minister of Labour Laskaris, who declared that there is no human exploitation anymore and that, "we will not allow the struggle of classes". Laskaris then became a prisoner and his views were seized. Forty-two years later, the New Democracy colleagues are coming to pull them out of the ridicule and claim that Greece has no classes. At the same time, however, we are told that SYRIZA went bankrupt in the middle class, so they admit that at least one class, the middle class, exists. It would be interesting to know which other classes are there, gentlemen of the New Democracy, because - it can't - there will be something above the middle class and something underneath it, right? It is interesting for some representatives of the right to justify our vision of "tax society" early and, indeed, within capitalism. It is also a proof of the ideological power of the Left, which shows how in vain the search for the New Democracy is to end with the Left, not as an election size, but as a system of ideas and values. Because that is what the Chief of New Democracy declared at the recent conference, in a profoundly bisecting and unspeakable role. That is what Mr Vorides said a few days ago, and Mr Vorides, in a more inflexible way, asking you to intervene in the mechanisms of the state, so that there will not be any rule of the Left again. How far is this from the junta and the Civil War, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u66	Very.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u67	Thank you for admitting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u68	I said it's too far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u69	It is more elegant in its wording, Mr Venizelos and Mrs Gennimata, when they say, in complete deviation from the policy of European Socialists, that they are working for the strategic defeat of SYRIZA. What do all this on classics say about SYRIZA's policy, gentlemen of the New Democracy? What else is it that you are trying to hide your class partition in favour of the oligarchy of wealth. The abolition of classes is nothing more than a smoke curtain to hide the class excitement and deprivation of capital at the expense of the world of work, as it has been unfolded since 2010. The top moment of this savage attack was to reduce the minimum wage, to introduce the subordinate, to abolish collective bargaining and to completely deregulation of the labour market. Mr. Mitsotakis recently described the underpaid wage as "existent". We agree. But who voted for him, Mr. Mitsotakis? You voted for him, as a member of the New Democracy, as you voted with your two hands, to reduce the minimum wage and to abolish collective bargaining, and later, as Minister for redundancies, you served in real hunting of public officials. There, admittedly, you are excelled, Mr Mitsotakis, in a shameful way, is the truth. But if the minimum wage is once shameful, how many times are the measures of 65 billion of your own government shameful? Too shameful, isn't it? Wouldn't every honest man say that? And if measures of 65 billion have caused an economic disaster corresponding to a war, with what courageousness, really, are you going to become honorers and critics of the EUR 9 billion of negative measures of our own government, but which have been accompanied by positive measures of around EUR 4 billion? How do you reckon reluctantly, how do you destroy yourself unconsciously, without consideration, without consciousness and assimilation to the reborn saviors of this place? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I said before about the dissolution of the middle class, claiming that - supposedly - it came to SYRIZA. Let us ask ourselves when the dissolution took place. I have the elements of 'Kathemerini', which I submit for the Minutes, which show that in 2014, according to the Commission's estimates, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises was reduced by two hundred and twenty-one thousand compared to 2008. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So who destroyed the middle class? You, who closed two hundred and nine thousand businesses and kicked hundreds of thousands of workers out of their jobs or we, who created three hundred and fifty thousand jobs and stopped the locks? We with the surplus social security system, or do you, who went bankrupt to impose Pinochet insurance? We, who have receded health and education, or do you want to deliver these goods to the golden beads of private health and to colleges of shameful ground? You see, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you and we are not a communication find, it is the abstraction of political and social correlations in every field, in every size, in the country's international upgrading and in the Ambassadors' Agreement, in our European policy, in tackling climate change, in the challenge of the fourth industrial revolution, in the migration, in the new development model, in the integration of major projects, in the prevention of pension cuts, in the CRL, in the annual social dividend, in the care of the uninsured, in two-year pre-school education, in the PES, in the school meals, in the education of refugees, in children's benefits, in primary care, in the rent subsidy, in the reduction of the HICP, in employment programmes, in targeted recruitment in the public. It is these that with half the heart you are obliged to vote in the House at the same time, which you consider to be pre-electional or arm - with the Golden Eagles, slander them as the silvers of Tsipras' betrayal in Macedonian, the most vulgar and italism that has been heard in recent years by the chief of officer's office. This is all within society that we and you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and it is the debt of SYRIZA and any progressive and democratic power to transform it into a victorious political strategy, mobilising the world, underneath which he has not yet spoken. This large social majority will raise its stature in the elections and pave the way for right-wing rehab, deceive Mr. Mitsotakis' dreams of Prime Minister and give SYRIZA for another four years, the first post and command of governance. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken before about the deep classity of SYRIZA's policy, which reached its peak with measures, which we have taken in favour of low pensioners and the treatment of extreme poverty, but also about the classicity of the New Democracy's policy. Let us go and see how this 'we' and 'you' is reflected in taxation over time. I have the table - I will present it for the Minutes - with the development of direct taxes from 2005 to 2017. If you see it, ladies and gentlemen, you will draw the outrageous conclusion that in the years that GDP has fallen by 25%, Greece has had rich citizens and businesses, which have been completely destroyed. Who achieved this economic miracle? Who else? You have done so, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. In 2005, a year of plating prosperity, natural persons - we - paid direct taxes of EUR 8.7 billion and businesses EUR 6.5 billion. Do you know where the taxes of the rich natural persons went the “summary” year 2012 after the crisis, when the savage tax raid of SYRIZA did not exist? They were launched at 13.5 billion, a record upwards of all times, while companies fell to 2.1 billion, just in 2.3% of total revenue, record downwards. The same happened for the other "summer", euphemistically, year, 2013. We have had an increase in household taxation and a reduction in corporate taxation. Add to them the constant deterioration of the indirect tax ratio - which we, unfortunately, have not managed to reverse - and the failure to halt the rise in prices of broad-consumption products and you will have the full picture of a huge redistribution of income, at the expense of the middle and lower classes and in favour of capital, in the crisis. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This reflects the success of the memorandums, that is, all the weight of the financial adjustment to the poor and medium-sized households.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Philly, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u71	I shall conclude, Mr President. For the first time we see in EUROSTAT that the total share of wage earners falls below the share of corporate profits. That's another clue. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Has the economy benefited from this huge redistribution of power between labour and capital? Is there any investment? Oh, no. The unprecedented disinvestment continued and the productive gap created is estimated at EUR 80 to 100 billion. Throughout this period, then, we have tried and already see that investments slowly recover plus 1.6% in 2016 and plus 9.6% in 2017. They're recovering slowly. In all of the above, you and our class choice, your and our bias, for the many and the weak, or for the few and the powerful. Too late for tears, gentlemen of the New Democracy, for the middle class, for you so brutally poorly impoverished. And what are you telling us now, though? What is the essence of your policy, again on the pretext of attracting investment? Even fewer taxes on businesses, lasting internal devaluation, eternal austerity, reduction of social costs and ash in the eyes for all, a thousand in every newborn child, which as a whole will be cut off from the benefits of children, which we have increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Philly, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u73	I mean - and I'm ending up - the whole reinstatement of the IMF policy, which we took off the door, and the NW wants to reinstate from the window. Let us realize that and let the Greek people do so in the elections. As in August we pushed the IMF out of the May elections, so in the elections and September 2019 we must prevent domestic supporters from returning to power. It is a strong and decisive 'no' to both the IMF and the NCI in the new democratic fund of Mr Mitsotakis. Strong and decisive "yes" to the continuation of left-wing governance, to the country's recovery, fair growth, social prosperity, collective promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you. The Minister of State, Mr. Alekos Flamouraris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few hours and days I have been following a process of absurd monologues, a process which, at some times, I do not hide you, is testing my patience. My fellow ministers and MPs have been struggling to record our efforts in recent years to avoid total destruction, to retain the social fabric, for the painful targeting of exiting from the memoranda. Because this is the only way the country, through the transfer to normality, will regain its right to a better tomorrow. They need to explain, at the same time, what we found, what we did and where we're going. They are also trying to remind and remind those responsible and their responsibilities. We have, I think, that right. But if that is normal for our government, what is normal for the opposition? I think one criticism, however hard it may be, of our facts and the government's remarks, would be reasonable. But it is on the basis of ideas, values, programmes and real events. Such a dialogue is, in fact, the one in the parliamentary democracy, but which the great perpetrators of the country's bankruptcy, the New Democracy and the KINAL, do not choose to do. The political correctness and the rhetorical abundance are therefore at the forefront. The Greek people, however, understand well from whom they stand aside. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are presenting a person, almost deceived, in your tradition, a reason that sometimes pours into extreme-right rhetoric, patriopathy, irresponsibility and uncovered lies. This person is historically manifested every time your own sovereignty is called into question in this country. You have, unfortunately, been tempted by the idea that the country belongs to you and you can do whatever you want, rule, go bankrupt, once betray it, and sometimes help it. As long as it belongs to you. Your political culture disappears when you lose power. You blindly oppose any action and position expressed by the Greek Government, without any interest in the impact of your evenings both inside and abroad. In repeated challenges to put forward your proposals, you do not do so and the reason is clear. You want to have your hands - what we say - freely to implement what is appropriate at any time. When you govern, then, the double name of Skopje is the only solution. When others rule, it's treason. When the country fights, you're with them. When we negotiate, you tell us that we are isolating the country, we are hurting it. When we succeed, we favour the mighty, we gave them a hundred to give us one. When we rectify injustices, we provoke ourselves. When we take strict measures, we perform memos. When refugees fight for their lives, you welcome prevention methods. When the pensions are cut, it's the government's fault. When they're not cut, you're talking about financial derailment and unfair transactions. Perhaps you're judging the odds. And not the number of examples of your imperfect policy. Of course, as you're telling us, we're doing all this for the chair. While you, who are asking for elections, not from the first day, from the first hour, are right to seek it because it is yours, you own the country. You're talking about class partitioning. He even mentioned it, Mr Kumucakos. Either you don't know the meaning of it or you're paraphrasing, to accuse us of splitting. Ladies and gentlemen, the fair growth that redistributes incomes, the effort to provide social benefits for the weak, the trade union freedoms, collective bargaining, decent wages, legal aid to low incomes, proposed by Mr Saridis, is all part of the class division. So let's speak clearly. You are opposed to this policy and do not call it a division. We don't have to do this. We can state clearly our opinion. And you, gentlemen of KINAL, as you say, yes, power destroys and corrupts, but those who can. And you have many examples. Unfortunately, you embraced the right-wing abstinence for whatever folk. You have avoided any links with the low social strata, every need for a social state. But how much conscientious now? Even the pretexts, even of a weak social democracies you do not hold. While in Europe the risk of extreme right and neonaziism is visible and sought, the progressive, social and ecological left forces, to unite and prevent this deadly danger to democracy, that is, the risk of fascism and neonazism, you in Greece are obsessively insisting on the strategic defeat of SYRIZA. Do you not think that this position leads extremist circles to adopt even the most reactionary slogan recently heard - the other day I think - that it is not enough to disappear only politically SYRIZA, but to eliminate his ideological speech? Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you are betting on both of the Greeks' short memory, which has been confirmed many times. We are not left alone but to remind the Greek people of the truth. These words to me, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I do not address them to you, because you have never lived with the ordinary people, with the young people, who thinks, thinks and seek, with the workers on their side, who were hard and often bitter. You have never been unemployed, because you have been driven away from work, or because you have not found work, nor have you been retired, who could not live in dignity. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I want the Greek people to hear it, who, in the vast majority, belongs to those who I mentioned and remind me of truths. Who brought him to the cliff? They mustn't have forgotten. When did he lose his job? In the first five years, you know, unemployment reached 28%. Who tossed wages and pensions? The first five years, your five years. Because we have to say that you've demolished, and we're building, and it's known to everyone that the crash lasts one hour, while building takes one, two, three years. That simple truth you want to cover up with the invention of splitting. We divide, when we say the reality, while you are the epitome of union speech. It's SYRIZA's fault, anyway. Yesterday, and for the attack on SKAI. I would like to stand here for a minute because it is well known, at least by me, that I condemn this appalling act, the criminal act against workers in SKAI. However, as you know very well, because I am passionate - two and a half times I have been burned by the corresponding people or themselves, and ten more times I have been attacked - I have not done so; as you have done the subject of 'SKA'. I think that we are two separate worlds. The political culture here, the attempt at political exploitation from there. People will judge. You were never interested in the splitting of the people. On the contrary, you nourish him, nourish him, and nourish you. For some of you, after all, there was an extremely profitable one. I'm not talking about those who are here today. Well, not for the Greek left who paid him with her blood. But, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, from yesterday's government brought us to the country the first budget, after the great adventure, the first of those who followed the opposite path, that is, it didn't come from Brussels, but left Athens and went to Brussels and returned without a single correction, no perfect one or one party. It brings a budget, which is now being realised that our country's finances have been put on a clock, are now reliable, they are breathing confidence and they are not being questioned either within or outside the borders. As you can see, the 2019 budget does not have budgetary constraints, as the dangerists of major and minor opposition have done all the time. In fact, when I heard Mr Brutsi's intervention today, I was thinking that if the figures he mentioned were known - and I think they could not have been known to those who approved the last evaluation and left the Memorandum - it would not have been done. So I think it is best to see the numbers that you refer to here again, because I feel that they are very wrong. Our budget gives, doesn't take. Because today, we can give. That is why we are gradually reducing the income tax on legal persons from 29% to 25%. We reduce HISFIA by alleviating the low and medium-sized economic strata. We have achieved a non-payment of a trade fee for farmers, members of agricultural cooperatives, for economic operators. We are reducing the social security contributions of the free professionals, the self-employed and the farmers. We are serving 50% of agricultural contributions for young people up to 25 years old. We are reducing the taxation of distributed profits. We are abolishing the measure to cut down personal differences in major and supplementary pensions, and we hire four and a half thousand teachers in special education. We plan fifteen thousand recruitments at all levels of education for the next three years. Our aim for the first home of borrowers, regardless of the form of borrowing, and the guarantee including up to EUR 250,000 of objective value at the time of acquisition and EUR 350,000 total property and family income up to EUR 35,000 is to be protected and we think we will achieve it in order to protect the home. We are working on a system that will provide for rapid procedures with dose adjustment in real values and efficiency, involving the state that will give banks a breath of red loans, which will reassure the borrowers, after they stick to the reduced instalment and ensure income in the banking system to play the real role, i.e. strengthening the real economy. In conclusion, I would like to thank all of us for the effort and, unfortunately, to understand the different viewpoint, which may exist. But what I would like to stress is to express itself with a particular political culture, because that is the only way that democracy can win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Loverdo, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes, reacting to the position of the Minister, as I have in the Rules of Procedure. I won't be more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u80	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u81	The criticism, Mr Flamourari, is welcome, but unfounded in terms of the Change Movement. I would like to raise three points quite briefly: they do not need much to explain the difference between populism and populism or pluralism. It is clear that your policy and then, before the elections, and now it has no element of populism, but it has elements of populism, with which we are also opposed to Greece and Europe. The second point, which I would like to raise, is about what you say about right-wing right and the front against right-wing right. It would be a question of discussion if it did not have the pretext of regularism, by which you are moving and by which the overwhelming majority of what is opposed to you belong to the extreme right. Therefore, the limits are lost here in the political dialogue and in the frontal discussions and we do not understand exactly what you mean, in addition to the votes you want to take. Finally, Mr Flamouraris, indeed another thing to ask your opponent to remember - and rightly so - another thing to tell him that he wants the people to forget and vote, forgetting, and another thing to claim for election day, whenever it comes, for the people to forget what you have done and for the people to suffer from the loss of a recent memory. I think that's what you claim. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u83	Here, Minister, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Loverdo, I'm not asking the people to forget. I am barely asking the people to remember, that is to say, when these things have been done, which you are testifying to us. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would ask that they remember when pensioners lost 40% of their pensioners, when they got out of one and a half million unemployed, when the thousands of shops, which you say are being held today, were closed. That is what I tried to say, and that is why I said that I am addressing the Greek people to remember. And I think he'll remember and remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a picture of the development of the debate, to come to an agreement, because we will finish at 14.00 a.m. I would like you to know what the list is like. I count we'll be done at 14:00. They are the MPs, Mr. Salmas, Mr. Kritsis and Mr. Gatis, and the ministers, Mr. Janakopoulos, Mrs. Ahtsoglou and Mr. Haritsis. We will continue with Mr. Salma now and Mr. Janakopoulos next and in turn...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, there are also the parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs' secondaryities for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u87	I say apart from the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u88	We'll go up and down until 16:00, when the political leaders start.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u89	I was badly warned there's going to be an interruption at 14:00. Deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u91	Here, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have said and I see here, there are three ministers, two parliamentary representatives, two Members from the government majority and, with the exception of Mr Salma, I am the only speaker. I'd like to intervene somewhere between those seven faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u93	But you're a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u94	I say this, so that the President may somehow allow me to speak between us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u95	Wait a minute. Mr Stagioras obviously calls for a derogation from the classical process, because there are three government MPs and three ministers on the list. If the rapporteurs do not disagree, the general rapporteurs could, for the balance of the debate, interfere with Mr Stakoura's intervention and have a better balance. Deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u96	We want to talk, however, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u97	Immediately after. Once the list is closed, you're first in a row, Mr. Manda. I am simply saying that we should accept Mr Stakoura's request to keep this balance, which we have from the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u98	No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u99	Here, Mr Salma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, it is the ninth budget, which I have the honour of being in a top parliamentary procedure and every time, when I hear one of us being in office, I remember my first years here in this House. As new Members, we all wish to defend this party, which we believe initially. However, as long as the years go by and we grow, what is most important to a politician is the approach of the truth. It can't be all wrong on one side and it's all right on the other. Well, let's put them in a row. Mr. Flambury, I respect you both from your institution and from your path. However, I do not accept, by addressing us and me personally, that I was at the audience, telling me that I have not lived inside the people. I must tell you that you have my father’s age, who is no longer alive, who, unfortunately, was not a majestic - as you are, and well did - but was a builder....
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u101	I was.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u102	You were. But my father was a builder. I worked with him six and a half years old in the building - I don't know if your son did it - and to go to my house toilet, I had to go out in winter. I don't know if your son had this luck or the misfortune to have the same starting point as me. And because I see Besyropoulos, who his father was a farmer, I see Vorides, who was a small business dealer, I see in Stavoura, who was an employee, I would like to note that I don't see any seeds of jacks, as you want to say. We are proud that we are a New Democracy, and if you want me to tell you how much of the solution to the country's problem we were. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to know who is talking and who says what, each of us must at a difficult time for the country, tell the truth in the world, such as that the country is not coming out of the crisis tomorrow and is not coming out today. The project is difficult, so difficult, that we will have decades to see the result of the real recovery of the economy. And now, one word emerges, the individual debt, what each one did or what each one of us does for his homeland. I could speak for hours, to say what I or my colleagues, who are in the House for their homeland, because we are part of a parliamentary and ministerial term and government period, which solved the problems and the sufferings of decades. We are not the ones who are here in the Chamber part of the country's problem. Therefore, a man who has saved one and a half billion from the health sector is speaking to you from health costs. Of course, when we talk about political culture, Mr Flamouraris, it is very important that we have a political culture, and it is something that I would remind you of, that we have lost political culture. And political culture is to recognize, even if any of your opponents did a job and separate it. It can't be bad. You didn't take the country to the bottom, you took it from 2010 to 2015 after a five-year period, when some people tried to raise matters, to be fair. So I'd expect this term to be recognised. Why be careful, do you know what a political culture is? Well, I see now in the ministerial seats - now, as I see you - one of the four of you, which may have been in 2002 at a Ministry, which was signed by the ministerial decision, to make a bolt of EUR 800 and the short 3,000 euros, but political culture, is not to say so. It is a political culture that, when in the authorities that were first elected as government, I wished for you on the public television to succeed. And I was one of those who didn't ask for elections instantly, but I got even myself and some like me to ask for it, because we see that the country doesn't get a good way. And obviously, I will change my entire speech because the matter of middle class and ideology, Mr. Phile, was raised. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree on one thing: that this is where we received a mandate from the Greek people to serve the Greek people. No one wants in this service, which will provide the Greek people with, to make them poorer. No one, no one. We all want a society without social inequality and equal upwards. Obviously, no one wants what is happening today with SYRIZA, which has deteriorated over SYRIZA, to reduce social inequalities, because we have an equality downwards. What's our difference? In how anyone realises that it can achieve better targeting. If we consider that economic growth has begun and unemployment has declined and jobs have increased, we must celebrate and say: okay. But how did you do that? With pension reductions, with an increase in insurance contributions and an increase in taxation. Was that right? If it was right, why do you change it now? Why are you now making tax reductions and claiming that in the coming years we will reduce contributions and taxation? And you, you're not left, you're a la cart. I read books and I know the theory of Rice, the former Minister of Trade, who is a socialist and leftist, and insists that there should be high taxes and a chart showing that when taxes were high, social inequalities fell. What do you think? Do you think taxes should be high or low? And if they're tall, you're right, and you're badly reducing them now. If the reduced taxes and levies are the right thing to do, then you were wrong to rule. He doesn't want much philosophy. Can I tell you something, though? Because now we're in the conversation, the vicious circle is specific. In other words, family income is falling, the consumption is falling, from this reduction operators are forced to make redundancies and wage cuts, workers are rising, unemployment is falling, wages fall, and the available income is again, and so on. This is the vicious circle. [[At this point, Mr President, the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] How are you trying to break this vicious circle? Not by bringing the economy to production to take measures to increase productivity, but by benefits. What is the available income in Greece? They are civil servants, allowances, pensions, provision of services, doctors, lawyers, engineers, salaried services, primary and secondary sectors. You're not interfering anywhere. It is how we give allowances and increase wages to civil servants in order to keep consumption with one, it is assumed, a sacrifice of the small and medium-sized ones. But let's see how you dealt with the business elite. When the subject of the supermarket “CARREFOUR - MARINOPOULOS - ” went off, let’s see how you dealt with it. What have you done, the left-wing government for a business that was big and owed 1,000 million euros? He bought 1 euro in credit for eight months and sold 1.2 euros in cash. How can such a supermarket, a big chain like CARREFOUR - MARINOPOULOS, go bankrupt? And that happened. What have you guys done? What does anyone expect to do? You say in your statute: "For us, socialism requires democracy in all cells of public life and in practice highlights supremacy over individuality and solidarity, so that workers are able to design, manage, control and protect with their elected organs production, directing it to satisfy social needs". So what was anyone waiting for? I have a cousin who's left and voted SYRIZA. What did he say he was waiting for? Tell the 12 000 workers of CARREFOUR - MARINOPOULOS to take over the supermarkets. But instead, what did you do? You went and found another entrepreneur, who now has a hundred million euros in debt, so look no further in the future, you also took the bank arrangements, and we're moving forward. What happened with the constructions cartel, which the Competition Committee had? Has anyone been punished for your day, or have you passed a provision so that they can settle the pending matter and have everyone come out clean? What about the canals, the intertwiners, is supposed to do with all that Mr. Pappas would do? What happened? I saw one, who had two channels that he changed one and had two again. They're the same. You didn't hurt anyone. Do you know what multinationals do and win? They extend the protection patents to original products either in technology, in IT or in medicines, and thus keep prices high. And do you know who's telling you this? You are told by one, when the price of 'Crestor' was EUR 10.5 and its patent would expire in five years, I used the ending, the data protection data protection data protection data, so that I could download it to 6.5. And you know how much Vorides handed over the pharmaceutical expenditure, as I see here and the Health Committee of Inquiry at SYRIZA in January 2015? He delivered 165,000 euros a month. Do you know how far it's been for four years now? He runs 250,000 euros a month. Do you know that all my industrialists would have a picture of me in their offices if I had? I heard Mr Blonde the other day announcing that we need to increase the budget by EUR 200,000, 000. Well, then why did we download it? Why didn't we leave it?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u103	Do you think that's wrong? Are people taking the wrong drugs?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u104	No, but it doesn't make us present the pharmaceuticals and tell them we'll raise you two hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u105	The two hundred that are given, you want us to cut them down?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u106	I'll tell you about the two hundred given.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u107	Shall we reduce them?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u108	Listen. Some like me and Vorides, and Georgiadis and Loverdo, who were in the Chamber before, predicted putting a closed budget on drugs and no medicine has been missing from anyone. And what did they say? Whatever goes beyond, it'll be back in the industries. What did the industries come up to and ask us? Increase this budget by 1.9 billion. None of us did. Mr. Xanthos announced it the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u109	One and a half million uninsured people take drugs, colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u110	It's none of their business.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u111	Do not continue the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u112	I didn't interrupt Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Salma, please, it's been twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u114	I shall conclude, Mr President. What does it mean now EUR 250,000,000 a month for four years? It means about 1 billion euros a year more than the 165 million that New Democracy has handed over. This in patient participations, about 30%, is a 300,000,000-euro charge for patients. So how much does it look like we're all trying to say that we helped people somewhere? No, unfortunately we didn't help them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u115	Finish, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u116	I am closing with this, Mr President, and I really thank you for your tolerance. Is SYRIZA's party the good party for the poor? This is the last question I have to close as a social policy officer of the New Democracy. That's what the world thinks, a large portion of the world, but it's fictitious, it's not. And it's not for two reasons. Firstly, in category 0 to 200 euros a month, which is the extreme poverty, which is about seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens, you did give the social solidarity allowance, what was institutionalised by New Democracy and you gave it. Is that right? That's right. Should he stay? You'll have to stay and stay. Kyriakos Mitsotakis said that, not only will he keep it at 700 million, but will do it 1 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now watch something else. As given is right? Oh, no. Why? Because even Lula, your colleague in Brazil, who was left-wing party and now is in prison - this is not about you - this man who first applied the "bolsa familia", told them, "you poor people in favelas will get the allowance, but you will take your children to school, otherwise you won't."
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u117	The same is the CRL here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u118	Here, in Greece, was there any incentive for those who get this allowance?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u119	You're wrong about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Mada, I'll tell you in your speech later. Take note of it, so you can say it. Mr. Salma, please, we're in fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u121	There has been no use of social applications and social services, access by beneficiaries. In other words, we cannot say today that all the children of poor people are going to a nursery and, above all, they have not been quickly reinstated into the labour market. What does that mean? That we have the so-called trap of poverty. All these people are trapped in poverty. I do not know if it is useful politically for SYRIZA to have seven hundred and fifty thousand poor people in the poverty trap, but our aim is to satisfy them by giving benefits. I'm hanging up, saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u122	You're done. Thank you, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u124	Minister Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. It was interesting, although somewhat ironic, to listen to Mr Salma from this moment on the Step to do health saving lessons, to give us short lessons of Marxist political economy, to teach us labour self-management lessons. I think it was exemplary to say that Mr Salma's speech on the magnitude of the confusion, which is currently prevailing in the New Democracy, but also, if you like, illustrates in the most clear way the fact that, rather, New Democracy has thrown a 'white towel' on the issues of the economy. After the collapse of the entire account, which had been building up for about three years about the collapse of the Greek economy, about the destruction of the basic productive tissues and things that we heard with great patience, today the New Democracy has left this destructive account at the end, apparently, and has thrown it either on the extreme right rhetoric or on the attempt to present itself as the great protector of the poor. So, now, what is the reality and these are a few preliminary notes, if you like, which I have to make after Mr Salma's speech. First note. Individual debt. He says Mr. Salmas that we have evacuated the individual debt, we of SYRIZA, who led the Greek economy to the destruction. On 31-12-2014, Mr Salma, we had three million, eighty-six thousand, five microprocessors with a total debt of up to EUR 3 000, with a total debt of EUR 1.8 billion. On 1-12-2018 we have - at the moment - three million three hundred seven thousand microprocessors with a total debt of up to EUR 3 000 and a total debt of EUR 1.626 billion, that is, under the relative ratio, which was the individual debt for the microprocessors in 2014. First inaccurate. Secondly, the inaccuracy of reducing insurance contributions, which you told us we increased insurance contributions. Let me remind you that for 88% of the free professions, doctors, lawyers and engineers, insurance contributions, according to L.4387, are lower than the insurance contributions applied under the previous class system. What the government is doing at the moment is that for a special category of middle-grade, that is 12% of self-employed, doctors, engineers and lawyers, who have average income and above, it reduces insurance contributions from 20% to 13%. From there on, 88%, i.e. the social majority of small and mediumsized enterprises, had already been reduced on the basis of the rules of Law No.4387 and the linking of insurance contributions to real income. The third point on increasing taxation, because I hear it from you, I have heard it from various speakers in the New Democracy all these days of the hypotonic, I have to say, a debate on the budget because, as I have said, you have probably thrown a white towel. We had 35 billion euros of new taxes between 2010 and 2014 and 4 billion new taxes between 2015 and 2018. This is the first time that the budget gives the possibility of budgetary expansion, i.e. increased on the one hand, expenditure and tax reduction, which you, throughout your administration, from 2012 to 2014, did not once, except in May 2014, when you decided to drop the programme itself, which you accepted and signed, the second memorandum, that is, because you considered that you no longer have any other solution left to you to prevent the political rise of SYRIZA. So what did you do? Just one day, you lowered VAT on the catering, from 23% to 13%. Do you know what the result of this policy was, Mr. Salma? I am not addressing you personally, simply because we are in an interactive relationship as I speak after you. Do you know what the result was, then? The result was that while you were targeting a primary surplus of 1.5% for 2014, you reached a primary surplus of 0%, while the report of the institutions of May 2014 said that the program is now inversely off-road. This was neither in October nor in November, nor in December, because you call for SYRIZA's political progress as the reason why the programme, the second memorandum, ended up in the rocks. All this happened during May - June 2014. Note 4. You spoke of a alleged decrease in retail and private consumption. The first time in the eight years that there has been an increase in private consumption and retail sales has been in the period since 2017 and then this course continues and is constantly intensified. Fifth question, because I have constantly heard from New Democracy a constant attack on social benefits. I would like to ask you this: do you agree with family benefits? I guess you'll agree. Do you remember what you were telling us about family allowances before the third assessment was completed? That we were supposed to be forced to reduce the budget for family allowances in the third assessment and finally came from the 650 million which was the family allowances budget, to reach a budget of EUR 920 million. And here is the very clear question, and I address it to Mr Staikoura, who will speak shortly later. Do you agree with the increase in social benefits, Mr Staikora, and especially family allowances? Do you agree with the Social Income of Solidarity, which is the most advantageous policy, or is this problematic, as it is supposed to create anti-government expenditure for the budget? Here are the questions, not a general position against benefits, but a position on the specific benefits provided for in the budget. What are these? Family allowances and Social Income of Solidarity, primarily, and the question is clearly and directly addressed: Do you agree or disagree with these benefits and increase them? Sixth note on labour self-management courses. That's a good idea for Mr. Salma to mobilize the workers, start taking on bankrupt operations. Of course, we support this policy, but the question, Mr Salma, is this: who would have to take on the debts of Marinopoulos, since this very original idea, for which you came here and taught us? Who would take over these debts? The workers? Would the workers take over the debts of a company, which we all know very well how it was led to bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u126	You can tell us about the "HALYBOURG" that put a padlock on today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u127	I should now come to my main position. Ladies and gentlemen, despite what the New Democracy claims, we are today voting for the first Memorandum of Understanding, the first budget which is drawn up after ten years in conditions of economic and political freedom. It is drawn up outside the special Memorandum of Understanding and without the limitations of evaluation technology, which imposed a suffocating negotiating framework. I would remind you that this Memorandum of Understanding laid down a procedure whereby the Greek Government had to prepare and implement policies in return for the disbursements of the loan contract or loan contracts at any time, which were necessary for the service of the Greek debt and without them the Greek State would be forced to stop paying. That was the situation we received. That was the treaty in which we had to govern for three years. And in this treaty we managed to put a definitive end to August 2018. You will remember, of course, and you, as well as the Members of the New Democracy, that you did not agree with this political choice of the government that has now been fully justified, that is to say, a clear exit from the Memorandum. On the contrary, you invited us to ask for a credit line, which would involve the signing of a new memorandum with strict evaluation procedures. And in return for what? A financial amount that would serve as a guarantee for the Greek debt. Only you know what ironic is in this case? That we were able to secure this money as a financial pillow by the ESM, without new commitments, without a new Memorandum of Understanding, as we should have signed if we were in the credit line process, according to the ESM Statute itself and without the use of the financial pillow depends on post-programme monitoring reports from the institutions. It is precisely the consequence of this political choice, the greater political and economic freedom, which we have today. And it is precisely the consequence of this political choice that we now have the opportunity to vote on a budget that now reflects the priorities of the Greek Government and not the monitoring institutions. It is obvious that a possible option for a credit line in no way would serve the country, would serve the social majority, would not serve the need for the country to step on its feet again and take responsibility for the development of economic policy after an eight-year period. But it would serve perfectly something else: it would serve perfectly the record he insisted until the end to speak of a fourth memorandum, which our own destructive choices were supposed to lead. And when this account collapsed and no new memorandum was signed, the New Democracy nevertheless insisted. He described the new Memorandum of Memorandum of Monitoring an informal fourth Memorandum. And with what argument? The implementation of the delegated measures, if you remember, during the period of the second assessment in the summer of 2017. What are these measures? The first of these for 2019 is the reduction of the personal difference between pensioners established by Law 4387. However, as you all know, this measure has been abolished as inappropriate. He wasn't suspended. Repealed. It is therefore clear and beyond doubt that there is no longer even the suspicion of a fourth memorandum, nor even the negotiating technology imposed by the memoranda, precisely because of its connection with the loan contracts. So negotiating technology, but also the privileged measures, are a past. One parentheses here: there has been a lot of talk in recent years about an alleged transaction. That, in other words, we exchanged the abolition of the measure of the reduction of the personal difference with the name of Macedonia. First of all, I have to say that the political choice for the Prespecies Agreement has not been made in return. We did it because we believe her. Therefore, it could not by definition be the result of any transaction. But here, there is also a consequence of the complaint, which you have also unleashed from the New Democracy side and especially from the side of its Chief, which seems to be particularly attracted by the arguments of the Golden Dawn lately. So there is a consequence that you probably haven't thought about. Because, you know, if on one side of the negotiating table on the pensions and the name of Macedonia, the Greek Government and Mr Tsipras were sitting on the other side of the negotiating table, you are obviously implying that Mrs Merkel was sitting, with which you participate in the European People's Party. You imply that Mr Kurts was sitting, who also participated in the European People's Party. You imply that Mr Rute, the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, was sitting on the other side of the table, who also participated in the European People's Party. Here, then, there is a clear and vague question, which we must ask you: How is it possible to participate in a party which has been traded with the Greek Government to betray Macedonia? How is that possible and you do that? I therefore think that the consequence of your complaint is your immediate departure from the European People's Party. Otherwise you will also be accomplices in this transaction. And I return: All this, that is to say the fact that the Memorandum of Understanding has come out of the treaty of negotiating loan contracts, means that we can draw up our budget beyond and beyond any limitation? Of course not. There is, first of all, the limitation of the primary surpluses, which are of course high and which are limited to the sustainability of the Greek debt, a debt which the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have, of course, managed to launch at 180% of GDP, amounting to 320 billion euros. Therefore, the need to maintain these primary surpluses is not due to a failure or to a choice of the Greek Government. On the contrary, it is due to the complete failure of the Governments of New Democracy and PASOK to achieve a sustainable debt arrangement when they could, in the period of 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015. And now we come to collect the unbelievable policies of the New Democracy and PASOK. And the New Democracy is relinquishing us for it. Nevertheless, we can do it. The Greek debt arrangement provides that the gross financial needs of the Greek State must not exceed 15% of GDP in the medium term. And that is exactly what ensures the sustainability of the debt, as long as the primary surplus is indeed maintained at a high level of 3.5% by 2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u128	Finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u129	Allow me, Mr President. I do not very often have the opportunity to speak in Parliament. I would therefore like a slight tolerance. Indeed, that is not a mere objective. It's a difficult target. However, consider how improved it is with the respective commitments of the New Democracy and the Second Memorandum, commitments that the New Democracy wants to constantly forget about, as anticipated the maintenance of primary surpluses of at least 4% by 2031. And now the New Democracy is coming and tells us this: it criticizes us, on the one hand, because 4% became 2% after 2022, but when it comes and faces this reality of the unthinkable primary surpluses of 4% by 2031, it begins absolute distortion and absolute paradox. It says: 'Yes, of course, we had agreed such primary surpluses, but these would result from growth'. And where do they support this? They support it in the estimates and projections made on a paper with the aim of creating the impression of the sustainability of the debt before any regulation, i.e. the period 2013-2014. You remember when the others did. Venizelos and Samaras have asked for the viability of the debt? I mean, of course, positive studies of debt sustainability, but I do. Now look how interesting this point is: 4.5% by 2018 and 4% by 2031 was supposed to come out of the fact that we would have a higher growth. That's a great argument. Of course, if, in the projections of debt developments, a growth rate of more than 3.5% over a 20-year period, it is obvious that debt will become sustainable. On the paper. The point is that the New Democracy colleagues took this technocratic trick, they passed it for reality and at the end they believed it. And they tell us today: "But, do you not see that there was a growth rate of 3.7% for 2018? In this way we would catch the target of 4.5% of the primary surplus." Instead of another argument and not to tire you out, I will simply mention the forecasts for the Greek economy from 2010 to 2015, to see how much the value of this argument, the antigenic argument - I hope you understand - of the New Democracy. In 2010, the budget forecast was talking about GDP reductions by 0.3% and we reached a recession of 5.4%. In 2011, the International Monetary Fund predicted a recession of 2.6% and the recession reached 9.1%. In 2012, we were talking about growth at 1.1% and we ended up with a recession of 7.3%. In 2013, we were talking about 2.1% growth and reached a recession of 3.2%. In 2014, we were also talking about growth at 2.1%, while the real result was 0.4%. The forecasts, to which the New Democracy refers to to justify itself, therefore, prove to be as worthy as a towel. There is no need for any more time to deal with the arguments that have been put forward over the past few days and will continue to be presented today by the financial staff of the New Democracy. Therefore, given the limitations resulting from the disciplinary function of markets and the level of Greek debt, we are attempting to reverse austerity policies and create a new development example, in full confrontation with the failed neoliberal clichés that the New Democracy considers as a political programme. In this very controversy, ideological and political, the dividing lines of the next period also emerge. The central objective of our programme is to increase the income for the social majority and workers. This is where we need to make a point. The measures of increase...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u130	Minister, excuse me, but over twenty minutes we can't go. You understand that, I believe. Ten or twenty minutes is tolerated, but more than twenty can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u131	I shall conclude, Mr President. The measures to increase income relate to transfers of the budget, minimum wage, extension of sectoral collective agreements, reductions in taxes and insurance contributions, etc. It is a purely class option to increase household income to boost internal demand. It is precisely here that our difference from New Democracy, which, in its development programme, is supposed to be - in order to attract investment, create conditions for attracting investment, tells us that the only way to achieve this political objective is to break down the work, tax exemptions for the oligarchy, to dismantle any regulation at market level, etc. It is the neoliberal'mantra' which has been used in the past by specific political forces, such as Mr Reagan, Mrs Thatcher, Mr Macrey. Do you know, in fact, where Mr Makri has come up with the choice he has made and which you have made and presented as a programme for the New Democracy? It has come back to the hug of the International Monetary Fund, which is where you intend to bring the country back.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Minister. Mr Stavros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u134	But now, can this thing be done? It's not possible! Here you go, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my full support for the workers in Kathemerin and Skai. The message of the whole democratic world must be - and I think it is, at least verbally - clear. Liberty and pluralism don't fade. You will allow me to give some brief answers to the Government and the Minister of State, who is right to do and treat us as a party that will take over the country's governance in a few months and ask for answers, which he will receive. First, Minister, are you talking about credibility? You're the ones who're being held by deceit, and you're telling conscious lies? You who share every year fantasy billions in Thessaloniki? You who would not take a single euro and have taken 10 billion new austerity measures so far? You who have imposed twenty-nine new taxes, seventeen pension cuts, and have disappeared in the middle class?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u136	Same again? Say something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u137	Because, Mr President, you say not to say the same, let's say something different. You guys said you'd improve the citizens' available income, get the new evidence now. Today, the OECD says it will reach the available income in 2020 where it was in 2014. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. I'll testify a lot of paintings. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Are you saying "no house in the hands of a banker" and auctioning massively and electronically thousands of houses, have you proceeded to a million two thousand seizures and one out of two taxpayers is a debtor? You said you would collect EUR 3 billion from tax evasion in six months, you have received EUR 150 million in four years. You committed yourself that the public debts would be cleared up until 20 August and today exceed EUR 2.5 billion and the Deputy Minister of Finance yesterday said: "I have now discovered that they will not be zeroed." Four years Minister now found out! Did you commit - and I will put it in the Minutes - that the Public Investment Programme will be implemented every year and that is currently less than EUR 3 billion from the objectives you have set in the budgets that are being implemented, as the Minister says, with sufficient authority? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So don't move the finger. Besides, the concept of creative ambiguity your "asset" introduced it into politics. Let's not forget. The creative ambiguity and the government's 'asset' went for a package. Unfortunately, when a government has no ideological coordinates, as is the case with today, it is moving on to retreat everywhere and on national issues, because it is a convenient government. Secondly, the Deputy Minister of Finance in the past days - he is missing today - arbitrarily estimated that he needs EUR 6 billion immediately to implement the New Democracy programme...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u138	Not immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u139	... forgetting that some interventions, such as for insurance contributions, extend over a period of four years - forgetting it, I have the Minutes - and, of course, making bad estimates. Mr. Mada, listen to the most interesting one. For example, he said - and I would like to see it together, to share - that the reduction in VAT on the focus from 24% to 13% costs EUR 513 million - so much did the Deputy Minister of Finance - when the corresponding reduction made in his 2013 report by the General Accounting Office of the State had it virtually neutral and when the Institutions - I have the e-mail of the institutions - who reacted in 2013, raised the cost to EUR 300 million. In other words, the institutions said that in order to reduce VAT it is EUR 300 million and the Deputy Minister says it is EUR 513 million. Finally, you prove to be more than memorial to the memorials. This is the e-mail of the institutions, when we were negotiating to reduce VAT on the focus. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thirdly, you're asking us how we're going to finance...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u140	What are you talking about? They've grown.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u141	To reduce from 23% to 13%, they were less than EUR 300 million, according to the institutions. Here's the evidence. Don't interrupt me. Now it's time for us to talk. Thirdly, you ask us how we will finance our programme. I could easily reply 'fucking', as you say, and say 'from the unnecessary surpluses of the past'. How much? It's 11 billion euros. I could also reply 'from your future surpluses', which are inappropriate too. How much? It's 3.6 billion euros. I will, however, answer more substantiatedly by tabling a relevant text from my own position on the day following the presentations of the new Republic's positions at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because I don't have time, I'm gonna tell you coded some things. From a programme to limit state expenditure, without undermining the quality of services and without redundancies, by strengthening public-private partnerships with the private sector, by extending electronic transactions, by reducing tax evasion due to lower tax rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u142	How much money?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u143	That's all I've been talking about. And because I talked about lower tax rates, let's go see another table together.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u144	A painting again?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u145	When you can capture something with paintings, you must be telling the truth. This is the table of the VAT gap. What does 'VAT' mean? I think the Minister will know. Or do you see it for the first time? I'm worried about that. This is how much you collect from VAT, as to how much you should be collected on the basis of the tax rates you have. And what does the European Commission say, the text of the European Commission? It says: "The lowest level of tax evasion we had in 2014 in VAT". Why? Because then there was a systematic reduction in tax rates and in a permanent manner, one of which is VAT on the focus... I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...and, of course, of the highest growth rates that we can achieve - and indeed, we agreed with the institutions - which will lead to a gradual reduction in budgetary targets. And yes, we are seeking to change the budgetary targets in the future. You, on the contrary, forgot it. You have become Memorandum of Memorandum and, on the contrary, you are financing your benefits from the surpluses, which come from the overtaxation of citizens. Fourthly, I listened to the Minister, but also to other colleagues referring to 2014. I don't have time to respond in detail. I've given the evidence many times. If you want, I give this package one more time. I will, however, read you two excerpts of interviews, not to say what we and you are saying, not to say what you say and because you call on the Europeans: "until this winter in 2014" - the interview is 2015, is an interview by Katinininen, Vice-President of the European Commission - "the things were going well, the country had a primary surplus..." - in winter 2014 - "...1.5%. Everyone was talking about the need for a preventive credit line. Greece would only come out of the program with an insurance link. Now, unfortunately, things have changed. It is very sad, because the world suffered, suffered enormous sacrifices and things went better. Unemployment fell. I'll submit it to the Minutes. But you'll tell me that's 2015. There were elections later, things changed, deceivers no longer exist. Let's see one more thing: "In 2014, things were going pretty well in Greece. We were working' - how did you say so, Minister? - "for a clean exit of Greece, clean out. We wanted him out of the program without a loan. Things changed after SYRIZA and this cost the country a lot of money and turned it back years." Who said that? The ESM Secretary-General, who financed the country. When did he say that? In August 2018. They worked for the country's net exit in 2014 and this has been agreed. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. You have loaded the country - we are still not saying it - with at least EUR 100 billion. Take the relevant reports from the European officials you are invoking today. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. And don't someone tell me - because I heard this, too, and we'll forget the main economics we know - that the debt did not increase in 2015 by 100 billion euros. And I heard: 'How do you say the debt is EUR 100 billion?' Cost breaks in many years, and that costs until 2060! But I heard something else: "You are tearing down, we are building, you have plunged the country over the last four years. He's recovering from us." First of all, why are you messing with us all? Let us see each government and here it will be of great interest. Mr. Mada, I think we can comment on this painting. Let me take the times of government. Indeed, in 2010 and 2011 we had a deep recession. The New Democracy-tooth government received the country with a recession of 9.1%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u146	And how much was the debt?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u147	And in two years he delivered it with growth of 1%, i.e. plus ten units in two years. And then, you have been dragging the country with just 1% increase. This is the picture, plus ten percentage points of GDP over two years, from '-9%' to '+1%'. I'll submit it to the Minutes. You are, in fact, talking about the primary surpluses. You know, there's an indicator they're looking at in Europe. The cyclically corrected primary surpluses. What are these? It's the primary surpluses if we take out the effect of the recession. And that is what we all have to do in Europe. You will see, therefore, that the country since 2012 has had cyclically corrected primary surpluses of 5% to 8%. I'll submit it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Stavura, please, be brief. You've been talking for 12 minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u149	I'll be done in two minutes. Thank you very much, Mr President. With regard to competitiveness, to break the periods a little: the government received competitiveness in 2010 in the place of '109,' 2011 was '100'. In the Samara government competitiveness was in position '78', '72', '61'. And then you, Mr Papadopoulos, '60', '61', '67', '71'. And you're proud? As regards spreads, the spreads fell far, at the same level as the 2014 points and higher than the 2010 points. And because the Minister said something about private debt, let's see the private debt. It was 62% above the end of 2014 that citizens' debts to tax and insurance funds were 62% more. I'll put it all in the Minutes. And last table is this. I was challenged by the Minister. Mr. Papadopoulos, would you allow me to finish? I want to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Papadopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u151	He said the Minister - and he is right - 'yes, we agreed on the same primary surpluses' - bars are the primary surpluses - 'at the same height of primary surpluses, but you agreed on a higher growth that would not be achieved'. First of all, it forgets - because it invoked IMF data before 2012 - that the country in 2013 and 2014 achieved growth or less recession than estimates. These were updated, got information from the past. We therefore agreed on the same primary surpluses for a shorter period of twice the growth rate. What is the value of double growth? And I wonder why you didn't say so. Less austerity measures! You took 10 billion, and we agreed to 1 billion. And you're coming now and you're talking about the debt? Higher growth means that we can achieve budgetary targets, without austerity measures, because higher growth means higher revenues and not new austerity measures. Here's the difference of 1.5 billion meters we had, 10 billion meters you. Why? Because you cannot achieve high and sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Stavura, you will not continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u153	And I'll be back in a minute. Last: You are trying to render to the New Democracy ideological and political traits that prove to be unproven. You're in vain. You're distorting developments to reduce its political capital. You're in vain. You try - you did it today - to create internal frictions. You're in vain. You're trying to transfer the clear responsibilities for developments. You're in vain. We are the irresistible patriotic, liberal, social, radical party and, in essence, the progressive party of our country, with deep roots in the people's forces. And that's hard to accept, because you're political anodories.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories twenty-one of students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 3rd General High School of Amarousi. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u156	Yeah, but only for 20 seconds. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u157	Yes, excuse me, Mr. Stakoura. From the end of your speech until you sat at your seat, I spoke to Mrs Zorba and Mrs Papanatsiou, we agreed that in the next ten years we will have a growth of 4.5%. So things got into place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for just a minute. And Mr. Mada, you follow after. You asked for the floor. Mr. Kritsis will speak and then you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Although I am taking the floor, the intensity of Mr Janakopoulou's critical speech has been somewhat over, I would like to refer to his argument, the first relating to the freelance professionals, because I am concerned about it. And in my speech on Friday, I raised it primarily. Listen: I have a specific example of a complaint from our fellow lawyer, who found it very eloquent and I included it in my speech. I am transferring it to you: Fifty-nine-year-old lawyer, with EUR 41,000 annual income, with a net tax statement as to whether he associates and has customers only companies and therefore has no chance of hiding anything. As a tax evacuator, 24% of VAT pays it, that is, 9,500 euros. It has paid 9 000 euros for business taxation, that is 20%. He pays 5,000 to EFKA, pays 2,500 trade tax and solidarity levy, doesn't know what will come to him as income tax, he of course has the other burdens, HNPH, municipal fees, and certainly, like all of them, the costs of maintaining his office. From four quarters, Mr. Janakopoulos, three quarters are leaving for the public. Can you comment on this on the criterion of your first placement?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u161	Will you comment on this now, Mr. Janakopoulos? The rhetoric was the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u162	No, not at all. I'm expecting a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u163	But that's not the way to discuss it, Mr. Loverde.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u164	It's interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u165	Because something is of interest to you, does the Minister have to comment on it? Minister, will you comment on this in a minute, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u166	I shall reply for a second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u167	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u168	Although both of the relevant ministers are here, Mrs Ahtsioglou and Mrs Papanatsiou, to answer you with even more precision than I am, I will try to answer. First of all, the first thing I have to say is that the statement made on tax is after VAT, so you cannot remove 24% of the 41 000. Of the 41,000 has already been attributed the Value Added Tax and are declared after tax. From there on, what I said in my speech is that about 88% of the professions, doctors, lawyers and engineers, based on the new insurance system, based on Law No.4387, pay less insurance contributions than on the class system. There is one 12% for which there was indeed a disproportionate burden based on L.4387 and precisely this disproportionate burden we now come to amend with the provision that reduces the premium from 20% to 13%, but also with specific provisions for the single doctors, lawyers and engineers. I think that was the argument that I tried to develop in my speech and I do not think it contradicts what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is, of course, the most political debate this year. In fact, this year we also had two important political events, the New Democracy conference and the speech of the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki. We also have a year of elections in front of us and we have the first Memorandum of Understanding. All this, along with the fact that we have come out of the Memorandum of Exemption Scheme, allows us to make a better programming, but also a reflection of what has happened in recent years and lead us to what is going to happen in the coming years. Furthermore, having come out of the Memorandum of Understanding, we have the opportunity to discuss and deal more clearly with what is happening in Europe, with what is currently happening in Italy, France, Austria at 12 hours, in Hungary with work. All these mobilisations highlight the context of the debate and, of course, concern us. The common denominator of all this debate which is being held in Europe, in whatever way, is the welfare state and its future, i.e. whether it is maintained, if it is developed, if it is for the sake of investment and entrepreneurship, because this is supposed to be the delear for those for whom it is a lion. If we look at the rhetoric and the demands of this mobilization, the yellow vests in France, we will see that it is a reaction to the austerity and the shrinking of the social state that is being promoted in that country. The occasion was a fuel tax, but it was not the tax itself that sparked the reaction. It was that, at the same time, another tax was abolished, which concerned the very rich. That, however provocative it may be, is not some extremeity. It is a political programme, it is at the core of what is at the right, both in Greece and in Europe and in France and everywhere. The Greek version is true that it looks more like a Trump than a Macron, but the denominator remains in common. What does that account say? He says we need to reduce the taxation of rich people as an investment incentive. Because the poor and the middle class are not investing, we are talking about reducing taxation to the very rich. So it says - it will produce wealth and be diffused in society. This is the theory of the diffusion economy, of the trickle-down economics, as it has been established to be said, which is a fraud that the IMF has even renounced. Indeed, it says in a study that the increase in the available income of less than 20% of society leads to growth, while the increase in the available income of more than 20% of society's incomes actually and in the medium term leads to a recession. What is actually happening with the promotion of these policies is the reduction of taxation to end up in the pockets of the very rich in two ways. The first one is obvious. The reduction in the tax burden is directly 'hot' money in the pocket. The second way, the indirect, is the substitution of functions that the social state is forced to abandon due to a lack of tax revenue. That is how we see them gain in two ways, firstly by not paying taxes and secondly by selling the services that the state does not take over because it does not have the resources to support them. This is why the New Democracy is talking in Greece about lowering taxes, but also about limiting the social state, education, health, social security. We remember Mr Mitsotakis saying that hospitals should not save and well have diagnostic capabilities. This outsourcing, as it is said, is at the heart of your policy, but it has nothing to do with either growth or justice. It's a way of enriching the economic oligarchy. Needless to say, the middle class here is in the same fate as the people's classes, because no tax reduction can replace the loss resulting from the abolition of free services and their replacement by private individuals. If all this applies in general and concerns countries such as Italy, France, the United States, which have not been tested by the crisis as long as Greece is concerned with us, because we are coming out of a period when the social state has suffered severe blows and if it has not been the present government in the last four years, then these blows would be overwhelming for society. That is one of the reasons why, as you have understood from our policy and from the budget in question, we are trying to move upwards by strengthening demand, strengthening consumption, increasing wages, thus reinvigorating the economy. It is obvious that a country of the so-called first world cannot rely on an economic model of exports with its own weapons of natural resources and cheap labour. GDP in a Eurozone country must be largely formed by consumption and the participation of wage earners and the world of work in general in the formation of GDP must be much greater than it is today. It is obvious that a country with such characteristics will be able to claim a better place in European and global labour-sharing. Ladies and gentlemen, what New Democracy and the Elite are trying to do with it is something that we also meet in other European countries, in each of its specificities. Illegalisation and the crisis of representation, monitoring the economic crisis, are attempting to overcome by reference to other collective identities, such as the nation and of course, as always, unlike the "Other", who is "the enemy". It may be an external enemy, it may be an internal enemy, it may be another country, it may be the immigrant, it may be the gay. Pick and take. There's a wide range of enemies offered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The exploitation of migration from the extreme right and lately and by the most typical right is the most vivid example of this strategy. We have also seen this with the right turn of the European People's Party and with the support of the ideologically extreme Manfred Weber. We have also seen it at the New Democracy Conference, however, by Mr Samaras and others. We saw a move to positions and slogans of the Golden Dawn. We also saw it with the right-wing rhetoric that should no longer be annoyed. But the annoying right is nothing but the right with a sense of history. It is the Right who realized in 1974 that there was a political continuity that led from occupation in the civil, post-war state of exception and ultimately in the junta and the 40% tradition of Cyprus to the Turks. If you want to be disobedient, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have only to make self-criticism and follow the path of democracy and prudence, rather than mocking new nationalism, which will lead us - if it prevails - to adventures and disasters, as happened in 1897, in 1922, but also in 1974. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It is obvious that we in SYRIZA do not want such a Greece, a Greece of "elea, olives and Kossos King", a Greece of poverty, a Greek society left behind in the patriots. And the resistance to such a perspective goes through the vigilance of democratic forces, of course, but it also goes through a model of growth that concerns many. The 2019 budget and our Memorandum Period Strategy contribute to such a perspective. I ask you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Kritsis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd General High School Argos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We should inform the students that they are attending a meeting on the 2019 budget. They're taking the floor for MPs and ministers, as you will see, if you stay a little longer. This process is being completed this evening with the budget vote. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Christos Mantas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u172	on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget reflects and condensssses the whole of a government project with very historical characteristics. It is an experiment launched at the beginning of 2015 aimed at a radical change in the country's course towards conditions of suffocation and overwhelming correlation, reached the referendum in July of the same year and at the flagship not of our people, who hampered the imposition of a completely burdensome semester program and led to a painful difficult compromise in the very marginal conditions. In September 2015, for this compromise, we were instructed by the Greek people to take him out. This is, in fact, a unique government project by the Radical Left on the scale of Europe - and we must not forget that - in conditions of globalisation and neoliberal sovereignty, which has been confirmed until now, essentially three times by our people. So at this moment, ladies and gentlemen, it is a moment of reflection for all of us that we have spent forty waves - but we have taken the country out of the memorials - for what we have done, for the great moments of upheaval and for the difficulties and compromises, hopes and denials, for our omissions and mistakes, but also for our conquests. It is at the same time a period ahead of election 2019 that our people are also retreating, weighing things up, shaping their choices, but nothing has yet been judged. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to say that the 2019 budget basically deserves this project, as first of all it is formed after the end of the memoranda and the hard commission. After eight years all the political forces, even those who accuse us of a fourth memorandum, are planning the new data of the new era. Otherwise, it would be unreasonable - nobody would say - to make announcements far above the planned financial space that we have shown in the medium term, the EUR 3.5 billion, as the New Democracy, which has persistently refused today - we will see whether, by the end, it will refuse - to respond to the amount and composition of the expansion measures that we should have had for 2019, but also to the sources of their funding. Whatever they say, whatever they say, with increased supervision - yes, we have increased supervision - with high primary surpluses - yes - with the European budgetary pact to tighten us - yes - with the restrictions, namely, imposed by the productive and social destruction of the country which we have never seen before in a time of peace, but also with the harsh austerity recipes and the neoliberal recipes of the Eurozone, we now have some critical degrees of freedom to design the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware that we still have many deep, open wounds, but we have a clear plan for healing and repairing them. We have a window of a very important opportunity. And to make it clear once again: we owned the programme - as it is said - have never taken over it. We gave the battle in the first half of the year against the neoliberal recipes of the memoranda and then proceeded to the difficult compromise. In this sense, the Financial Adjustment Programme, while we have implemented it and implemented it without tricks, based on the outcome of the compromise, at the same time called into question - as far as we could - the extreme neoliberal options, with whatever elements of a parallel programme we have managed to implement. And it is very great what we have done and we need to do a lot of work so that we can communicate it properly, but it is already - and we do not forget that - an experienced reality, especially from the weak layers of Greek society. What our opponents, ladies and gentlemen - and I will say a few things more about this - are not mostly the EUR 100 billion that was supposedly spent in the first six months in the country or in the capital control, etc. Of course they're blaming us for them too. Do you know what the gentleman is? The gentleman who deeply blames us - I think I can say - is that we resisted, did not abandon them and neither did the brief left parentheses nor the others who planned. That's the man. Ladies and gentlemen, at this difficult time we have kept society up. We have created and financed a new social state with new institutions, new initiatives, large areas that literally saved the weakest from total collapse. That's what we did. We have created - and we continue - a social welfare system that is currently spending 400% above what we received in 2015. That's overwhelming. It's a devastating element. From the dark that we were in social welfare before - clean social welfare - we have actually reached a significant height and that already - as the relevant Minister has said, but also with elements of 2016 - has an impact on the reduction of child poverty and the reduction of inequalities and has new institutions: the universal social income of solidarity, school meals, the strengthening and reform of family allowances. And we proceed in early 2019 with the housing allowance, a new policy, a new institution that for the first time enters the Greek society. At this point, I would like to say to Mr Salma that those who take the CRL are obliged to go to school. He hasn't read that well either. We have created and continued to measure the universal access of all uninsured people to public health structures only with their AMKA, while we have supported hospitals with human and material resources and continue with the constant annual increase in public spending and, of course, the Primary Health Care, with the family doctor and local Health Units, with a new modern concept of health and the health team, which is now everyday - no matter what they say - for many neighborhoods in the country. We have created and continued a new situation in public education with two years of compulsory education, with the first steps towards regeneration of vocational education and the significant strengthening of special education, with the reforms in High School, the single area in Higher Education by creating new strong institutions in the West Attica, Epirus, the Ionia. And we continue with the recruitment after years of new IPA members - close to a thousand posts - with the major support of research, which continues in this budget too. We are moving forward with the new budget increase by 222 million in 2019 and with the intake, after years, finally four thousand permanent teachers and other scientists in special education and by increasing, for another year, expenditure on research and strengthening new institutions, such as ELIDEC, to regain new scientists. And, of course, we are slowly recovering the work that had been put to the attention of the memoranda - because one of the nuclear objectives of this neoliberal programme was to further dismantle labour relations, the core of work - with over three hundred thousand jobs, increasing the minimum wage and abolishing the subordinate that comes to the beginning of the new year, restoring the collective negotiations that have already resulted in thousands of workers, systematically combating black and undeclared work and with eleven new programmes totalling EUR 632,500,000 with the benefit of the eighty-five thousand people. So we have kept society up - and with many others - so we have supported and supported the social state. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me at this point to make a few comments, which have some value, on various things that have been heard in this Chamber in relation to many issues of great interest. I am going, first of all, to make a few comments on this list - coming and coming - of the twenty new tax burdens and looking at them a little more carefully. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am going to need three more minutes, as has been done before. Let's see this list? First of all, I would say in the new non - paper that it is twenty-eight more taxes. We abolished the wine tax, didn't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u173	Thirty-seven are taxes normally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u174	All right, thirty-six, then. So I'm going to one by one. Number 13: increasing luxury living tax rate from 10% to 15% Yes, it was our conscious choice this. I'm going to the wine tax at 18%, that's erased from the map. I'm going a little further. Select tax on short-term rents of Airbnb residences. And your Chief said it's probably a useful tax. We shouldn't leave this field completely out. I'm going down to number 28 below: I'm imposing an environmental charge on the use of a plastic bag. The same thing your Chief said about this tax, if I'm not mistaken, is that it's a tax that should come in and I think you have the same opinion. Those were some comments. Unfortunately, I have lost the first page that is the tax on natural persons, but I remember it outside. Do you know what we did in the natural person tax? We've made a lot more scales. That is what we have done and this is a progressive policy on the taxation of natural persons. That's what we did. I'll find out, and I'll tell you. I'll go down. There is a lot of discussion about the great 100 billion - we have done this too many times, but it seems that we cannot agree exactly - and I will now tell you two arguments, which may not have been heard so much, Mr Stavoura. Look, because Mr. Reggling has mentioned him many times, what did Mr. Reggling say, which has indeed been repeated recently, but has he said it before? The cost of the negotiation is 100 billion. He said, of course, that there is no scientific way of calculating these costs. He said the Bank of Greece has estimated it at 80 billion and added 20 billion more, which would be potential for growth in 2015-2016. How did these 20 billion come about? He said we would have 2.5% growth in 2015 and 3.5% in 2016, totalling 6% of GDP, which I would first note is 10 billion and not 20 billion, but let us take this river. Also, in 2016, when he made the first statement, it had not been closed, we did not know exactly what was going to happen. But the most important mistake - in our view - of Mr Regling is that he compares the reality with the predictions. So that's a mistake that's going on. The other reality, then, is the forecasts. If we did the same, we should say - using the same methodology - that in the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 we lost 33 billion. I do not want to comment on the calculation by Mr Stournara, who, on the basis of the 2016 report and speaking of the debt sustainability analysis, is made with long-term forecasts of 1.5% of primary surpluses. Based on this forecast, Mr Stournaras calculates this charge. But I will tell you one more thing, which I do not think I have said in my speech, and it is from an article by Francis Kottendakis, who is now Chairman of the Committee on the Budgets of the House. He says, therefore, Mr Kottentakis: 'Looking at the elements of the International Monetary Fund, we can see that in the 2014 forecast, the GDP debt in 2020 is at 128%, while in 2015 the forecast is launching at 150% for the same year, which is increasing by twenty-two points. Of these, eight and a half points are due to the lowest primary surpluses and about seven and a half points to the smaller privatization revenues, i.e. sixteen out of twenty-two-two-two-two-two-two-tier increase of the GDP ratio is due to policy changes.’ What do I mean by that? That it's too easy to make such calculations based on the evidence you've put in. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will try to finish. I would like to put a few more questions, if you will allow me to finish. Ladies and gentlemen, a very interesting criticism they make us are about excessive primary surpluses and that they prevent growth. I do not understand, however, how I am looking to find - I am not an economist, I may also have something to do with - how they themselves in their calculations with such great primary surpluses would achieve such a high rate of growth. I mean, if that's a factor that affects growth rates...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u175	Growth rates affect primary surpluses.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u176	That's what I'm saying. But if the primary surpluses are a factor affecting growth rates...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u177	The reverse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u178	Let me finish my thoughts. While one is binding, the other is hypothetical, the other is a possibility, but the commitment to primary surpluses is a commitment. So I do not think there is a reasonable way, unless something is missing from me, to explain this.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u179	And finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u180	And I conclude with one more comment that I think it is necessary to make. What has happened, ladies and gentlemen, with the Public Investment Programme, which makes us very critical? I would like to say two things about private debt, but I think Mrs Papanatsiou has said so. I would just like to say one good news today that we have 100,000 less debtors with yesterday's ADI data, and that is a good sign. I'm going a little bit to this very important issue that I think I should say two words. The Public Investment Programme, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is made up of the national section and of the funding from Community funds. By decisions of previous governments, we had continuous reductions in the Public Investment Programme and in particular we had a continuous reduction in the national component in the years 2013, 2014, 2015. That is a very crucial element. Why? Because this reduction has two consequences. The first impact was immediate, to increase the outstanding public debts to public project contractors who had the ‘happiness’ contracts to be financed by the National Public Investment Programme. The second - and perhaps the most serious, because it is in the medium term - was the suspension of new projects for both the ESDP and the National Public Investment Programme. This has happened because the studies and the maturation of new projects are financed by the National Public Investment Programme. Final result do you know what it was? The lack of mature projects that prevented the full exploitation of the Public Investment Programme. So the deepest problem has a little something that has been preceded and these consequences are very serious in the implementation of the Public Investment Programme today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Mada, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u182	So, ladies and gentlemen, after all this - I had a lot of other things to say, because there was a great deal of talk and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - I think that we are now in a position where we can see our fellow citizens clearly, we can say what we have done, but above all we can show the Greek people that we have a clear plan for the future with social bias, yes, in favour of the social majority. And that is why for many other reasons I think that the Greek people still counting and weighing at the end will weigh in this direction to continue the governance of the Left. I would like to say one more thing. We have many months to do this, and we have a lot to do in the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u183	Thank you to SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Christo Manda. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity now has the floor, Mrs Ahtsoglou, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, the first Memorandum of Understanding, the 2019 budget is passed four months after the country leaves the budget adjustment programmes and the Memorandums. And in this four-month period we already have specific data confirming that the exit from the programmes, the exit from the memoranda, was not a formal process, but, on the contrary, it is directly translated into measures, to policies to improve the income and everyday life of the large social majority. Only in the last four months have we already acted not only on the final and irrevocable cancellation of the pension cut measure, but also on ensuring that the six hundred twenty thousand pensioners will begin to see increases in their pensions from 2019, increases that will be repeated over the next few years. We need to clarify this, the six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners who will see increases in 2019 will receive increases for a five-year period in their pensions. Within the last four months of leaving the programs we are completing the process of increasing the minimum wage. The minimum wage will be increased by a government decision in January, less than one month from now, while abolishing the shameful underpaid wage for young people under the age of twenty-five. Therefore, the new single increase in wages will apply to everyone without age discrimination.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u185	How long will it be?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u186	You'll see, Sunday short celebration. Within less than four months we have legislated to reduce insurance contributions for freelance professionals, self-employed persons and farmers by 33%. We have already implemented the reduction of the ENPIA. Within less than four months we have acted on the granting for the third time of a social dividend to over one million six hundred thousand households, the first allocation in our country - and this is included in the 2019 budget - a rental allowance, a housing allowance, a total of 400 million that will strengthen not only the low but also the middle income of households. The budget that we are debating today includes expansive measures, i.e. measures to strengthen social security benefits and to alleviate contributions and taxes for citizens of EUR 910 million, a budget area that is expanding over the coming years. And I think the question of whether we really have a transition from the system of budgetary restrictions to a new era in which it is restored at the same time and the country's ability to formulate with relative economic freedom of its policies has already been answered and answered every day in practice and I think that these four months prove it to be proof of the measures taken by the Greek Parliament. And it may be these data that have led the Chief of Officerial Response to his party's recent conference to be dragged to the social agenda and to make some announcements on the social agenda. But it is coming late with proposals, which are unresolved and often contradictory to each other, and I think with reduced credibility since the New Democracy has not now appeared on the political stage, but has a long period of governance in the past decades. He said, then, that Mr Mitsotakis, firstly, as a later prophet, would increase the minimum wage and abolish the underpaid wage with which he is even weakened, considering that SYRIZA had introduced him as the underpaid wage. Let me remind him, first of all, of the fact that the New Democracy participated in the coup d'état when in 2012 the minimum wage was cut in one night, out of 751 euros went to 586 euros and the so-called subordinate wage with which Mr Mitsotakis is now furious was introduced. But let's put this aside, even though we can't write it down. He has therefore announced an increase in the minimum wage and said that his position is that this increase will be twice as high as the annual increase in GDP. I say first of all as a Christ's prophet, because he knows that the government is now completing the process and there will be an increase in wages in January, less than a month from now. It is therefore a little paradoxical to show it as an announcement at some point in the future when it knows that this is already complete. However, it is a matter of several sects. He said the wage increase would be twice as high as the GDP growth. I repeat, wages will rise in January. The proposal of the New Democracy is 'how much increase in January'. In January, it will be less than a month from now, not a year, not after two years, not after five years. The New Democracy's proposal to increase the wages is what? How, in its opinion, does the minimum wage need to be increased? There is an open political debate. The institutions have been placed, the BSE proposal has been made, the ERC has made a proposal, the ERC has made a proposal, social actors and scientific bodies have made proposals. How much does the New Democracy propose to increase the wages in January? This question I do not think has been answered. How much does he propose to raise the payroll, 4%? When he says that in January we should have a double increase in GDP, does he mean that the wages of 4% are increased? Why is it not placed in it clearly? Is it concerned that if it is put open, will its proposal not go hand in hand with the BSE proposal, which proposed an increase of 1% -2%? Why does it not say openly and clearly how much should the wage increase be in January 2019? Second matter. I have heard him place himself on social policy as well and announcing a new framework of pay policy. Here too, the facts, to forgive us, do not allow us to take the proposals which are being tabled in particular, because the New Democracy has been a government in this place. It did not take any special measures to build a firm social state, nor did it take any measures in the period of the major economic crisis that was sweeping the country in 2010-2014. In that five-year period, it did not take any special measures to protect vulnerable areas and handed over a country to a humanitarian crisis. But let us put this aside again, and let us come up with good intentions, without taking into account the past, to see this announcement. What did Mr. Mitsotakis say? Some time ago, from the IGC's step, he said he would incorporate all the allowances currently in existence into the minimum guaranteed income. And a few days ago at the New Democracy conference, he announced that the budget for the Minimum Guaranteed Income, for Social Income of Solidarity, will be 900m euros, about what the Government is already giving for Social Income Solidarity, while the current government also provides a very large sum for other benefits, disability, family, uninsured over-ages, etc. In addition to what it provides for Social Income of Solidarity, the government gave 1 billion extra for these benefits in 2018. And in 2019 in the budget you see, I say again and not for the Social Income of Solidarity, a sum of 2,300,000. Again, these are separate from the Social Income of Solidarity. When Mr Mitsotakis says that all the allowances will incorporate them into the Social Solidarity Income and at the same time says that the Social Solidarity Budget will be as much as the current CRL budget is, what about the other allowances? He's gonna cut it? What exactly will happen? Why will it be clearly placed on them? I am talking about disability benefits, uninsured over-aged family, about women mothers who have a specific allowance, etc. Place clearly. Third issue, namely family allowances, the current government in 2018 changed the system of family allowances and increased the budget of family allowances from 650,000,000 to 1,020,000,000. He increased the budget of family allowances and changed the whole architecture. The result was to increase the beneficiaries of family allowances and the vast majority of them, about 90% of them, to receive increased allowances in relation to what they received before 2018. In fact, families with one or two children receive this family allowance, which is stable financial support until the child is grown or until the child finishes his studies. Mr. Mitsotakis said he would restore the previous system of family allowances. So what's gonna happen? The increased family allowances granted since 2018, and in particular to families with one or two children, will be abolished if the administration takes over and will give the 2,000 as a one-off amount? Will it abolish this new system of increased family allowances and return to the previous compressed budget for family allowances? Why isn't it placed clearly? Why does it not clearly explain what will happen with this new family allowance system that strengthens families with one or two children? [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let me say, as a fourth point, two words on the other pillar of the social state, which is the insurance system. I have said many times that there is a tripartite that describes the deadlock that New Democracy has led to the insurance system. He delivered it with a deficit of 1,100,000,000 after twelve horizontal pension cuts and four hundred thousand unpaid pensions and "one-time" in our drawers, a real ruin for the insurance system. The government has reversed this situation. He's won the bet on the viability of the insurance system. It pays late payments, restores past injustices and for the first time in 2019 we can move on to pension increases after about a decade. In the face of this picture, the Civic Antipolitics remains this well-known path of destructiveness. And since she did not get the catastrophe with the pension cut, she did not get the catastrophe with the huge insurance contributions, because it proved in practice that the vast majority of the insured pay less than the previous system, she is now returning to a new issue, which I heard in the last debate in Parliament with Mr Brutsi, that it is not a surplus for the operation of the ECA and that these elements are damaged. Once again, I will speak specifically. It appears in the 2019 budget that the insurance funds have a surplus thanks to the increase in revenues that exist, due to the increase in employment in particular, and the reduction in undeclared work. At the same time, it seems in the 2019 budget, there is a reduction in pension expenditure, because we are paying the due date, we are clearing the due date, we are paying the outstanding pensions that is. We cleared the bulk of the due deadlines in 2018, which greatly lightens the pension expenditure of 2019. These are the data that make the insurance system from one year to another, whereas it is budgetd for having a "h" budgetary balance, going better. This means, moreover, that it has a surplus function. Alas - he is not here, but we have discussed it before, he says 'how does he have a surplus, since the state finances' - if the state did not finance the public social security system. We wouldn't have a public social security system then. That is the concept of the public social security system, of state funding. This is happening in all European systems. The evolution, the improvement of the income in the insurance system since 2017, when EFKA starts operating, is obvious and clear. For the most skeptical, I am tabling a full note on the course of the public finances of the Single Social Security Agency, which shows exactly this increase in revenue from 2017 onwards. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is this steady course of budgetary figures that allows and in 2019 to reduce state funding and to be able to use state resources for other vulnerable groups of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, with the budget that this House is voting on today, the government is taking a rapid step in its plan to improve income, particularly by a large social majority, after a pessimistic period of fiscal adjustments. The days are valuable. We use them to the absolute extent to transform the exit from the memoirs into a period of relief, support and perspective for many, and that is our only compass for continuing our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u187	Thank you to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. Mr. Dimitris Gatis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a general observation. We have managed to combine everything that budgetary credibility requires and, at the same time, to have the margin to support society in practice and to lay the foundations for sound and fair growth with the 2019 budget. With this budget, which is expansive for the first time after a decade of policies, we are drawing up and identifying our own development proposal towards the policies of cruel austerity that was the choice of all the previous governments. Ladies and gentlemen, when I saw my last name on the list of speakers, I wondered what will remain to be said as a Member since several ministers, all the parliamentary representatives, all the other colleagues, have spoken. I have discussed this problem with a group of friends in which we have come to present proposals and thoughts which have been formulated through the debate here. So I will be presenting three budget and everyday items today at the same time. These are sections which have concerns, questions, but also suggestions, and I dare to bring the proposals they have made to me. The first section refers to the country's overcompensation, the second section of the social reserve included in the budget and the third is a series of questions that have prevailed in the group's debate and the corresponding answers that I shall be tabling. The first section, therefore, in the 2019 budget, includes an important budget of around EUR 6 billion for the payment of interest and public debt loans. This amount, despite the favourable arrangements that have been made, remains very large. And, of course, it refers to the excessive lending of the country that took place throughout the period until 2009. Let us remember that at that time public debt amounted to about 300 billion and as a percentage of GDP of about 120%. It remains very high, however, despite the sacrifices made by the Greek people for many years and despite the "restructurings" which have been unsuccessful to the year 2014, such as the PSI etc. But let us come to the crucial question of who is responsible for the country's overcompensation. Those who ruled until 2009. And what were they doing until 2014 to tackle this huge problem? Today we have the phenomenon of the same parties, the same political forces, the same persons who have caused this unjustified management and growth of the public debt to appear as honorers, but also as saviors without a trace of criticism and ignorance, and even using a wrapping of hypocrisy the term 'political culture', but to which you cannot hide. Because if political culture doesn't come out of your heart, if it doesn't come out of your mind, from your experience and your culture, then the whole world understands it. Ladies and gentlemen, consider whether the level of public debt was half of today, how considerable savings we would have had since its service. Funds which could be made available both for social policy and for the financing of the Public Investment Programme. However, it is not only the interest burden the only impact of the country's overcharge. The inability to borrow from the markets resulting from the outbreak of the economic crisis in 2009 brought to the country supervision, the commission, the memoranda, the painful measures with all the consequences suffered by the Greek people and especially the most vulnerable social strata, such as pensioners, unemployed, microprofessionals, employees, etc. And the loop of high government debt will unfortunately continue for many years to strangle the country's economy and undermine growth. In this economic action, we respond with a political response, in the sense of physics. Political reaction is the design of another different socially fair development model. Secondly, the 2019 budget, as has been rightly pointed out, is the first budget that does not include restrictive measures. On the other hand, it has relief measures for vulnerable social groups, such as the reduction of the ETUC, the non-reduction of pensions, the housing allowance and others which, in combination with other measures promoted, such as the increase of the minimum wage, mark the transition to the new memorandum period and are essentially a qualitative change in economic policy with the aim of strengthening the weaker social strata. I would suggest here, knowing the sensitivity of the Minister of Health, Mr Xanthos, and the Deputy Minister, Mr Polakis, to the problems of third age - and that is the proposal I have been telling you - and in the context of the proposed new policy on the medicine to decide on two simple concrete measures. Firstly, all medicines should be brought back to the level of the insured person until 2012, i.e. 0%, 10% and 25%, calculated at the actual price. Secondly, to limit the number of non-prescribed medicines, i.e. MUSYFA, and to check their prices. At the same time, it raises the question of whether all these measures and, more generally, the new direction of economic policy have a development dimension. The answer that has been given is positive. The increase in consumption brought about by these measures will contribute to a corresponding increase in GDP and will therefore work in development. But, of course, that's not good enough. In order to inspire the growth of the economy, which has entered a upward orbit, investment in particular needs to be made in the private sector, and on this subject the budget gives a positive answer. It includes measures which will contribute to the creation of an environment favourable to investment. Such measures are the reduction of the insurance contributions of the professions, the subsidisation of insurance contributions by 50% to young workers, which has already been voted on, the reduction of taxation on distribution profits by companies and the gradual reduction of the corporate profits tax. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you some of the questions that have been raised in this debate in the third stage. First, who are responsible for the overcompensation of the country, which led to the memoranda? All a common response was those who ruled the country by 2010. Secondly, how did the PASOK and New Democracy manage the crisis in 2010-2014? The answer is by means of measures which mainly affect the poor and the middle class. Thirdly, who imposed the harsh measures of the memorials? The answer, I think, is well known from everyone. The lenders with the help of domestic economic elites and the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK. Fourthly, what does the New Democracy election programme hide? Answer: redundancies and new measures in favour of the rich and to the detriment of low incomes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Chief of Officership and President of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is on the verge of returning a page. It does not, however, tell us what direction it will be. Because if you turn it to the right, then you turn to the previous chapters, or you turn to the past and to the maintenance. We with victory and with certainty that the Greek people will trust us and the next four years we will turn the page to the left to write on white pages its future and its developmental dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Gaki. Minister Haritsis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating today in Parliament marks a new beginning for our country, as it is the first memorial budget after eight years of cruel sacrifice for Greek citizens. It is a budget that does not include austerity measures, but measures of rationalisation in both the social and the development field. For the first time in years, we do not discuss how much will be cut and by whom, but how much will be given and who will be given. The injustices that have accumulated in the previous period are gradually being lifted and whole categories of our fellow citizens, who have been disproportionately burdened over the past years, are now being relieved. Already in recent weeks, a number of very positive regulations have been passed by parliament, which have now been complemented by the provisions on additional interventions included in the 2019 budget. It is good to remember even briefly some of them, such as the social allowance for a million four hundred thousands of our fellow citizens, retrospectively in uniforms, university teachers and doctors, the reintroduction of collective bargaining and the arrangements to strengthen workers' bargaining capacity. Of course, the non-reduction of pensions. The targeted reduction in insurance contributions for significant free-traded shares and the grant of insurance contributions for young workers. The reduction of HISPIA. The reduction of tax rates for enterprises from 2019 for the next four years. Also, the abolition of excise duty on wine, the transport equivalent to our islands, the housing allowance, an integrated support policy for children and young parents, an increase, as included in the budget, of pensions from 1-1-2019 for six hundred thousand pensioners. Also, increasing the minimum wage and, of course, abolishing our underpaid wages, a measure of our Government that has been fainting over the past few days to support the Chief of Officerial Opposition. They were analysed very well by the relevant Minister for Labour. I mention all this quickly and fully in line with how much has been done in recent years, i.e. after the country's exit from the memoranda, and how all this proves in practice that the country has returned a page, the memorials and austerity are now in the past. Citizens are beginning to realize that very difficult is now behind us. They even feel it where it counts the most, that is, their wages, their income, the services they enjoy in health, education, the social state. However, the question arises as to whether these measures are an excuse, as the opposition is accusing us of. And here we have to be absolutely clear. The arrangements, the positive measures, what has already been voted and what will be followed in the next period are fully costly and are covered by the budget space that our Government has created, because we are not going to jeopardise the budgetary stability that we have achieved, which the Greek people have worked so hard to achieve with their sacrifices. These measures are fully in line with the improved image of the Greek economy. It is good to remember that only in the last few days, according to the figures announced by the Greek Statistical Office, we had a growth of 2.2% for the third quarter of 2018, the highest for over a decade and is the ninth consecutive quarter recorded positive growth rates, while unemployment fell to 18.6% with over four hundred thousand new jobs created over the last three years. Of course we don't celebrate. Unemployment remains at very high levels. But it is huge in relation to the tragic 27.9% in which it was in the summer of 2013 in the Samara - Venizelos Government. These measures, therefore, which have been passed over the last few weeks and which are included in the 2019 budget not only undermine the prospects of the Greek economy, but also strengthen them, stressing both the demand through the strengthening of popular incomes and the supply through increased investments and the targeted reduction of tax and insurance rates. Ladies and gentlemen, with the exit from the memoranda, it has become clearer than ever the two main competitive projects that conflict on the future of the country: the plan already being implemented by our Government focusing on labour and new productive strata, which proposes the creation of a strong social state for the first time in our country and which includes integrated policies for sustainable and fair growth. On the other hand, the draft of the Officerial Representation aimed at privatising health, education and insurance, the constitutionalization of neoliberalism and austerity, that is, what the International Monetary Fund has been trying to impose on our country for years, namely a continuation plan, I would say, of the memorials by other means. Ladies and gentlemen, the exit from the memoranda and the upgrading of the Greek economy was not a predetermined development, it was not a natural phenomenon nor was it, of course, the product of some historical prefecture. It is the result of our efforts to apportion the burdens of the crisis proportionately and fairly and not unilaterally on the backs of the weakest. Despite budgetary constraints and suffocating pressures, the parallel programme that we promised the Greek people is very importantly implemented in health, education, welfare. We even pulled the country out of the memorials, because we conflicted with the great and small interests that plunged public wealth and kept the Greek economy trapped in a bankrupt productive model. We have taken the country out of the memorials because we have drawn up and implemented for the first time in the post-political history of the country an integrated development strategy for productive reconstruction, a plan that puts on the table the structural problems of the Greek economy, deindustrialisation, low integration of new technologies, introversion, escaping educated young people abroad. It is a project that came up after an unprecedented process of democratic consultation with citizens through the regional development conferences that we have organised in the past throughout the country in cooperation with self-government and productive sectors. This is precisely the plan that we are implementing in the Ministry of the Interior, especially in the part of self-government, because in lies local government was one of the major victims of the crisis. She saw her resources shrink by more than 60% in the first years of the crisis, a reduction for which, rather, not only the memorials, but also the neoliberal policies followed by previous governments aimed at privatising critical self-government services, are also responsible. On the contrary, we are making progress in strengthening local government in all areas. The budget that we are debating today for the first time after nine years includes increasing state funding for the Ottawas. It is a small increase, but very importantly after all these reductions which have occurred over the past period. At the same time, through the new "PHILIDIS" funding programmes, more than EUR 1.8 billion is directed to local government agencies in 2018 for the implementation of critical infrastructures in flood protection, water, sewerage, waste management, school buildings, projects that meet real needs and which should have been implemented in our country for decades. This additional funding, in fact, does not at all involve the LAGs, as it is fully covered by the Public Investment Programme. So many and targeted resources have never seen self-government, and this is something that is recognised by all the self-government bodies regardless of party origin. Moreover, a great effort is under way to staff the TAs with thousands of new recruitments based on the needs of the local authorities themselves. We expect the AACC to complete by the end of the year the process of issuing the final tables for the eight and a half thousands of new workers in the county payroll services. You know very well that a few days ago the regulation on the creation of new fixed positions, three thousand two hundred and two hundred jobs, for the very important social "Help at Home" programme was passed in the House, followed by a very large programme of a thousand five hundred recruitments of technical and scientific staff based on the needs of self-government bodies themselves, in order to be able to make use of the new potential for development that are being opened. Of course, these recruitments have been made possible because the Government has given us a great battle and has managed to restore the rule 'one to one' to the recruitments - the departures to the public, the one whose Qualified Opposition wants to cancel and wants to return to the Memorandum Rule 'one to five'. This is something that the world of self-government, OTA workers, but also citizens should remember very well. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Finally, of course - and your tolerance, Mr President, for two minutes - we have made progress in the great institutional reform of KLISTENH, a democratic division for self-government, with simple proportional but also with numerous other institutional interventions, such as local referendums, the strengthening of popular assemblies and consultation committees, KLISTENIS, considerably widen democracy at local level and citizens' ability to participate in self-government matters. These efforts to finance, recruits and institutional areas are not fragmentary. All together, they form a comprehensive plan, three interdependent aspects of a single strategy for our government for the area of self-government. Against all of this, the Civic Anti-Civilisation opposes the abolition of the funding by the LAGs and its replacement for the collection of HPAI, a proposal that, apart from serious issues of constitutionality that it raises, would, if ever, lead, to the condemnation of the majority of the country's municipalities in economic bankruptcy, as they have a very small building stock on their territory. Accuracy Opposition at the same time promises to restore the well-meaning majority system to the self-government elections, distortion of representation and demobilisation of democracy in local communities. In our view, it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that two competitive projects, two different worlds, are also in the field of local government. In conclusion, let me briefly refer to three very brief, in our opinion, legislative initiatives that are taking place in the next two months, in the first two months of 2019, our Ministry, the Ministry of Interior. The first concerns the radical reform of the institutional framework for the health and safety of workers in local government and the conditions for the award of personal protective equipment. It comes as a continuation of the very systematic effort of the last two years to remove injustices against workers in self-government. I would remind you that, after many years, collective agreements with the federations of workers in self-government were finally signed. This legislative intervention will also include special attention to the employment status of school cleaners, a regime which we are talking about today is a disgrace for the Greek state and the local authorities must finally take their responsibilities. The second legislative initiative concerns citizenship procedures. You know very well that by 2015, the relevant procedures have excluded important categories of our fellow citizens, especially children who have been born and raised in our country, Greece. It was our Government that triggered those elementary policies, I would say, which should be a basic obligation for a state that wants to be defined as the rule of law. The regulations that we are bringing forward in the next few weeks in the House are homising, simplifying and speeding up the relevant procedures and creating a more transparent and objective system of citizenship for citizens who are entitled to it under the Constitution and the existing legislation. Finally, the third initiative includes a number of arrangements to promote the essential gender equality in every sphere of social life, but also measures to eliminate violence against women, interventions which are extremely urgent, as evidenced by the evidence of women's discrimination and abuse, but also appalling - unfortunately - events such as the recent murder of a young woman in Rhodes. These are three legislative initiatives in the next period from the Ministry of Interior, which contribute to the ongoing struggle for a more open, fairer and more inclusive society. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is at a very critical crossroads. The Greek society comes out of an unprecedented, I would say, crisis, a crisis that has tried and often crossed its limits. The very difficult, of course, are behind us, but the path ahead does not exist, we have to fix it ourselves. As the exit from the crisis and the memorials were not specified, so the course that we will follow from now on is not a path that is given. The risk of turning back to the destructive practices, attitudes and policies that have led us to the crisis, which have led us to bankruptcy, is more than existent. We are choosing another path, the road to the enlargement of democracy and the safeguarding of the rights of all citizens, the path of peaceful coexistence with our neighbours, the path of sustainable and fair development away from the paths and injustices of the past. A decisive step in this direction and in this new way that we want to open is the budget that we are debating today, which is why I call on you to vote in favour of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Alexandros Haritsi. The rapporteur for the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR Mr Scandalidis has the floor to answer for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that I am succeeding in the step by a Minister who speaks with a ton of moderate and restores a climate that is different in the debate here, regardless of the disagreements we have and is huge. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister is saying that the country has changed its page. It says it every day in all the tones and all the ways. In my recommendation at the beginning, I set three conditions to change the country page: the exit to markets with sustainable interest rates approaching Europeans, the creation of a financial space without austerity policy, the attraction of investments and the savings of resources that will cause a real development alarm. What happened in practice? Firstly, we did not come out on the markets, nor does such a perspective appear to be on the horizon. He's rocky on the neck of the economy. This case of exiting the markets, which is being concealed and which we are not discussing today, as if nothing is going on at all, can be the most important reason - more serious reason than Skopje - for speeding up even political developments. Secondly, the Minister for Finance in his interventions, both in committee and in plenary, admitted - and I am glad to say - that 3.5% of the surplus is a policy of lasting austerity under the current circumstances, saying that if there is an expansionist policy, etc., this can be changed. Thus, it disproves the Prime Minister who declared on 21 August the final end of the austerity era, which I repeat - at every opportunity possible. The impulse in relation to the dramatic tax raid and bleeding of development resources and incomes is a drop in the ocean. The government's answer is not convincing. We haven't entered a new era where austerity stops. Thirdly, the Minister for Development, trying to justify the prime minister's belief that development has already come, has presented a series of development projects that are typically running, but are, essentially, ghosts. My question is obvious. Why is the investment balance negative? Why is the public investment programme, which is the main weapon of development, especially when private investment is minimal, a dramatic reduction? Why are privatizations being incited? Why is the use of large public property non-existent? Why is taking advantage of the infamous robbers of the large tax collectors poor to nonexistent? The government's response to this is impossible in fact, because no special numbers need to be paid back, because the figures can be seen as they wish. With regard to the criticism you are currently making, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I did not come here to question the figures. I want to say on an issue that you always raise and I think it is a key point of your criticism, the 2010-2015 comparison and 2015-2018. You forget that from 2010 to 2015 an effort was made to get the country to a level and then put the numbers, which should be much smaller when it comes to the evolution of things when we were in front of the exit to the markets, in equal degree and you measure numbers. This is a huge mistake, because forbidden fruit is the forbidden six months from January to July. For we have exercised a Memorandum Policy, but you have also exercised a Memorandum Policy and even tougher ones. This semester, however, has shaken the country into the air and that cannot be called into question. I insist that the state budget should be the reason to look forward. What should the country that was dramatically delayed do? The first thing the country needs to do is to remove these obstacles that prevent growth by fast track processes. What does that mean to the state? A real revolution. What does it mean for critical institutions? A real decentralization. What does it mean for redirecting objectives and resources? A productive reconstruction. Does this budget anywhere show that there is such a turn, that it changes something dramatically, that it takes into account this need and does something completely new, radical, so that growth can really come at a high rate? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. The question is which government can legislate and install them in the body of society and not just legislate them? We've made changes that stayed in the middle, because we just didn't legislate. The issue is what popular correlation and what government majority can implement so much changes to which one has to agree? And the second is to start on this condition a new negotiation, which will reduce the country's international commitments, so that it really enters an anti-immemorandum era, reduce the surpluses, restructure the debt, abolish the current role of the superstate and give it a new role, bring it a genuinely new insurance system by abolishing the Katrugalo Law and all that is currently binding on the country. Only in this way will we say that the country has a national property programme, otherwise we are always in the memoranda. That is the absolute prerequisite. Here, too, is always coming what we repeat. It is not enough to change, it is not enough to go from populism to right-wing rehabilitation. It is not enough to go from a paradox alliance to a right-wing self-responsibility, but it must be irresponsible to change the type of governance and then discuss the electoral systems and everything else that will make the rules of the political game truly democratic and proportionate and representative. When we have not made a decision as a whole here as a body, as a parliament, as parties, our political system to come out of its old self, to stop looking at yesterday and looking at tomorrow, to be able to replace a new political orientation and culture, nothing happens. And because this is not the time to analyse it to you, I'm going to close with an outline at the current juncture, which has something to do with what we're talking about these two days. There are three words. Tolerance, retaliation and ban. Democracy does not tolerate violence, from wherever it comes, whatever cloak it wears, whatever ideology it supports. It is an essential condition for any new political culture. Revenge. Democracy is not retaliating, it is not chasing the political opponents, nor will those who will come be chasing their new political opponents, but it is creating institutions that do not reproduce the phenomena of corruption and of interlocutory and all the others that we are all denounced and which, in order to eradicate our collective responsibility, turn personal responsibility into collective parties, accusing and pluralizing factions or collectively subordinates that are essentially the soul of democracy, such as political parties. And the third word is the ban. Democracy does not accept or tolerate the abolition of freedom of movement for ideas, the abolition of information and freedom of press, it does not accept that democracy with asterisks, with footnotes. Whether it will be democracy latitudes, as we used to say, those who came from a space or not will be a democracy. If this does not become our common conscience, I fear that the next few days will not be easy for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr Scandalides, rapporteur for the Democratic Reconciliation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-three students and students and three teachers from the 3rd General High School of Argos (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Tell students and students that they are attending a meeting on the state budget for 2019. The debate has been taking place for a few days. The debate is taking place by the Members, by the ministers, by the Heads of the parties and by the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, and this evening, which will be the end of the debate, followed by the vote. We continue with the SYRIZA rapporteur for his second-guess, Mr Dimitris Vettas. Mr. Vetta, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u194	Madam and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, statistics are an excellent science. But it is also extremely misleading. I say this, although my colleague and co-rapporteur, Mr Stagioras, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, is missing, and that is why I will be very careful. However, by depositing three dozen statistical papers, one would think that when his government for thirty and a half months was taking measures of 25.6 billion, it would not only return to the Greek people 450 million. And that, not as a dividend, because it wasn't a dividend, the dividend is what outruns your surplus and you give it as a result of your surplus. They gave it the month before the European elections, having decided to leave the programme and the government. A government aimed at 1.5% surpluses in March does not donate 450 million on a horizontal basis to those who did not have the programme if it was intended to implement it. So looking at the direction things had taken at the time with SYRIZA and their own demographic fall and not only, they decided too early to leave the financial programme. So the country was derailed. The IMF reports were clear. I do not know if anyone reads them or does not read them, but they exist and they were clear. Sixteen quarterly reports were obliged to implement. They've been able to do the five and the ones late. It is well known that the beggars, and Mr Shoeble's interview, a year ago, have been calling for a 'fresh' of the programme, so that they can overcome the intention of the election of the President of the Republic, so as not to lose - I say it with respect and with a poetic attitude - a part of their political status. But things ended as they ended up, they left the program, they left the country at mercy. Here they spoke and will speak by night about two hundred sixty, perhaps more colleagues, MPs and ministers, and there have been too many arguments. Thirty-nine taxes. Overtaxation. A reasonable man thinks of two things. In one scale, you have a 25-26 billion-billion-dollar programme, and in the other balance, a joint statement by the Head of Sector and the Deputy Head of State of New Democracy that we have brought 9.5 billion-dollars. Today we brought 10 billion. Yesterday this statement was made for 9.5 billion and today Mr Stagioras said about 10 billion, that is 500 million in two days! Let's just say it's 10 billion. Is there a reasonable man who believes that a 25 billion-billion-dollar programme involves and brings the world more taxes than the SYRIZA programme, which was one-third of their own programme? Does a reasonable man think so? Is there a really reasonable person who can support it? The second argument we have heard concerns the 'convention' we have made on pensions. Anyone can say what they want and judge about it. But you know, although it is a huge insult to the political forces, who believe that this agreement is the best at the moment, that it is taking Greece out of the crisis, that it solves its national problem and leads it to a lead in the Balkans - one can legitimately disagree with it - but of course it also affects the political forces of Europe, the Member States, and that is another case. But I'm saying this. In life it's always important to see who offends us. So you want us to picture in a simple, light way, as the Greek people understand, who insults us? So if I could choose positions, I would see at the seat of the New Democracy a man who has stepped and respected, to a very large extent, the national position. Below I would see a man who is the personalized problem of the Macedonian, the man who created it, the man who won from it and the man who dropped a government of New Democracy and is a few benches down. A few benches on the right will see two people who once left New Democracy, went to other parties and asked questions about the management of New Democracy's finances. Now, of course, they are again in the New Democracy, but they are not answering for the New Democracy loans. A little more to the right, I'd see a man who blamed himself as a Macedonian - terror, that's his words! - the man who stepped on, as I said before, the national line and charged him with treason. These five people are in the same chairs. These same people are New Democracy. So this New Democracy does not offend us, neither we nor the Greek people. Let us now refer to the third issue of chairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u195	This is where you did the Papakostas, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u196	Stop grumbling, please. You do it all the time. You're not a child. You're sixty years old man. Please calm down, Mr. President. So let's refer to the chairs. You're right. You count days, weeks, years. And in cubic cubics you'll be counting in a little while how many days we've been ruling. But that's your thing. We are exhausted our constitutional capacity. So there is no point in claiming anything more. But I'm saying - and I'm just thinking - that the chairs are being given up by the incompetent. The chairs are given up by inefficient ones. The chairs give up, the former presidents, the former ministers, the former big party, who were asking, yesterday at noon, "Ma, does the Greek people not understand what we took over in 2010?" Of course the people understood. The chaos you guys brought in and took over. So we ask me just Greek if the Greek people should understand and something else. He obviously has to understand. Here's his responsibility now. The country has come out of the memorandum, from a government that has not put a hand in honey, from a government that has been running for four years. He's not a professional MP. Four years! It was the huge change in the country's political system! People in this Parliament came in from all sides, people who would not come if bipartisanism fell.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u197	Like Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u198	Do you make this move, colleague, mean anything to us about food?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u199	Bite things. Lately, some millions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u200	You're insulting us all, but I don't think you're even able to insult yourself, because you're really falling so low.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u201	Captain, in the classroom! You're a man of order. Arrest yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u202	So I close by saying: The Right has never learned. Right will never know. We ask, then, that all of us here find out where the tax cuts are going to come from.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u203	We're proud to be right.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, protect me from a man who...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u205	Yes, but you too, Mr. Comrade. We have gone beyond three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u206	I'll be done. I'm in time. The rest of you, believe me, spoke 12 minutes. In one, a minute and a half I'll be done. So you ask - and I see our Minister, Mr Chakaloto - where the money is going to be. You won't answer. The money won't be found anywhere. Expenditure will be cut, schools will be closed, hospitals will be closed, nursery stations will be closed, family allowances will be cut. That's where you'll get the money! No answer is expected by the Greek people about how and where you will find the money. Your old sieve art! So the Greek people tasted it in the past. So the New Democracy doesn't change. People who have ruled forty years and have this arrogance, people who have ruled and handled lives, public property, public money and speak like you do, I don't think you can take over again.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u207	Imagine ruling forty years what would happen to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u208	You know what, Mr. Cryazides? In 2015 - and I am closing with that, Mr President - the Greek people have thrown you out of the window. Be sure that 2019 will not put you through the door! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u209	Thank you. Mr Nicos Karathanasopoulos has the floor. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u210	You told us - I mean the government - that you are changing a page with the state budget and, indeed, one minister this morning said that he was proud of the budget in the state of 2019. But let's see for example two, three numbers. What does the state budget contain? It contains an increase in tax revenue by EUR 1 billion. We have no relief of tax raid, because we have an increase in tax revenue. Where are these coming from? From the popular mattresses. Secondly, on page 49 of the State Budget, employee benefits are reduced by EUR 511 million. We therefore have a reduction in benefits to both workers and an increase in tax revenue. Thirdly, on page 87 of the state budget we have a marginal reduction - but it is a reduction - of state funding to hospitals. What does that show in the new era? In hospitals at risk of collapse, you reduce - a small reduction, but this is symbolism - state funding. What are you all raising? You increase the same income in hospitals, i.e. the money that those who go to hospitals and especially to afternoon hospitals. Thirdly, you have reduced funding for the local government agencies. State funding is falling. What are you up to? On page 95 of the State Budget, the same revenues are increased from tax revenues from local government. So who's gonna be called to pay? The people will pay through the payroll, while state funding is falling. And funding to the municipalities has already been reduced by 60% over all these Memorandum years. It continues, therefore, on the same question of previous budgets as in previous budgets, because it is considered to be outside memoranda, regardless of whether all the Memorandum Laws that have led to the situation that has led it to the local administration. Secondly, the Minister for Labour claimed that you are making benefits after the exit of the typical memorandum. So what did he say? It says that for the first time pensioners - six hundred thousand pensioners, as he said - will see an increase in their pensions. But here on page 89 of the state budget you say that the total pension expenditure will be reduced by EUR 275 million. How will this increase be, bro? Are these magical? Unless you do creative accounting! Secondly, there is the committee itself who examined the state budget and said: we are not reducing the personal difference because the government said that it would freeze all pensions by 2022, which the committee itself considers will have the same financial effect if we cut the personal difference. We are talking about page 4 of the Commission communication.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u211	It's 10%.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u212	It's on page 4 of the Commission communication. I therefore read it and will table it, Minister: ‘In addition, the proposed pension freeze by 2022 is expected to lead to the same level of pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP in a stable state, as compared to the result of the full implementation of the privileged pension cuts in 2019’. He's talking about the same financial result. So you are moving to all pensioners the reduction of this personal difference. In this respect, he claimed for wages that the minimum wage would be increased and the subordinate would be abolished. "I'll"! In the same committee's communication it is stressed that all these changes to be made should take into account the strengths of the economy and the level of competitiveness, i.e. in order not to affect investment, future and subsequent profitability of enterprises. That's why, for so many years, he's kept the underpaid wage. Four years you have maintained it, and you have even rushed to take advantage of the state financing of insurance contributions for young workers as a replacement. But you have still not made a reduction in the minimum wage, because the Commission is putting you on the table. So let's see how all this comes. In fact, the whole arsenal of the anti-American New Democracy is making it your own law. It's now the Brutsi - Ahchioglu law. The minimum wage will be determined on the basis of the strengths of the economy. And who's gonna determine him? Not the class struggle workers, but the government. That's what the Brutsi law said. That's what you do. Therefore, any adjustments will not call into question competitiveness and capitalist profitability. Thirdly, the Minister claimed that you reduced contributions to the free traders by 33%. Really? Can you say in relation to 2018 whether the self-employed will pay the same or more insurance contributions? Why? For you are changing the basis for calculating these insurance contributions by abolishing the various discounts they have had from their income. So it is a gift from the moment he pays the same insurance contributions or more. So, in other words, you are baptizing fish on the substance. And what's left of you? The EUR 710 million, the social allowance, which in the face of the EUR 7 billion primary surpluses is actually 1/10. So, in other words, the logic is 'to burn you, Giannis, to grind you oil'. And from this point of view, here in the debate, you are also helping, of course, both from the New Democracy and from the PASOK, to present to us that you have two different recipes. Another recipe, you say, is New Democracy, another SYRIZA recipe. Where does that come from? Once you took the baton, you have legalised the first and second memorandum, and from there you voted on the third. So you have the same recipe. Of course, that's a convenient account. Why aren't you different? You're not different in terms of target. What does the government want? What does New Democracy and PASOK want? It wants to ensure growth and, indeed, in a test tube environment, when the world economy is getting worse, in the capitalist economy, and it is also on the verge of a new global capitalist crisis. You are now talking here for decades of sustainable, eternal development - where? - with all the things that are happening in Italy, Turkey, in general, in the trade war which exists and in the exacerbation of competition and conflicts, which are the pretexts of a new capitalist crisis. Will Greece not be affected? Of course, it will be much more influenced. So you're interested in growth. How will you guarantee this development, which is not neutral, is a class growth for the benefit of capital? With incentives and the formation of a more favourable investment environment. That's what the New Democracy says. That's what you say. Mr. Drasakis was revealing yesterday: a new bill to protect and strengthen strategic investment, a new development bank, new development tools. Reduction of taxation is said by the New Democracy, and you too are doing the reduction of taxation by businesses and the factors of legal persons, but also by distributed profits, namely pluralism. For the people you have a fixed tax burden. You do not disagree on the European Union's policy. All the directives that are coming from the European Union are you voting together with the New Democracy and even some directives, which you as MEPs in the European Parliament are voting against. For example, with regard to the performance of passenger data by airlines, the European Parliament voted against it by the SYRIZA MEPs and the Greek Parliament recommended it as the government of SYRIZA. You're going to such an insanity to lead the situation. And you do not disagree with the objective of the geostrategic upgrading of Greece, which, in essence, leads to it? - leads to the strengthening of Greek monopolistic groups in the western Balkans. The Prespecies Agreement is the vehicle in this direction. So you don't disagree with strategic choices and manner. You're probably arguing about the spice of the recipes, the same recipe. Another may prefer thyme and another may prefer oregano. And through this convenient account, therefore, of the multiple recipes you say, which is one of the essences, the recipe that serves the needs of capital, what do you want? You want to encroach on the popular conscience and say there are different recipes here. So you have to choose a recipe while it is the recipe itself. The people will continue to pay for the broken growth, as they have paid for the broken crisis. The people should make a sacrifice on the altar of capital profitability and continue to make sacrifices. Above all, however, beyond caging consciousness, which may be temporary, even for the next elections between Scylla and Harves, what you aim primarily at is in popular conscience. And what do you want? So you want the people to have reduced demands, not to demand the satisfaction of the needs, but to look for who will give them a better charity allowance, if the New Democracy or SYRIZA give them a better allowance, and to choose on the basis of charity benefits and not on the basis of the satisfaction of the needs and on the basis of this to fight. So we say it clearly: you have a common dimension. The common component is the people not only "to put back" on the conditions of the crisis, but "to put back" on the conditions of growth and safeguarding capitalist profit. The JRC is saying it clearly: that's enough! That's as far as it goes! It's time for the people to take the case in their hands and shape the conditions for a movement that will not question politics alone today, the SYRIZA, or tomorrow, the New Democracy, but will question the whole system, which leads him to poverty, impoverishment, misery, which makes wars on the profits of the bosses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr Karathanasopoulos, Secretary-General of the JRC. Mr. Amyras has the floor, if he's ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u214	I need five more minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u215	Very good. Mr Marios Georgiadis, rapporteur from the Central Association, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all the ministers and all of you from the SYRIZA - ANEL government who have taken up the Step, the first thing and the first phrase that you have been saying and which you have been taking over in recent weeks is that the first anti-immemorandum budget has been tabled by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for 2019. Do you really think we've come out of the memoirs? Yeah, you'll tell me. You should ask small and medium-sized businessmen, companies that cannot borrow at the supposed net exit from the memoranda. We have a lot to talk about. The most important and undeniable thing is that this budget contains the following anti-monetary measures for you: the maintenance of all the Memorandum measures and all the relevant laws - which we have really lost the account with their number - the disinvestment, which is indeed permanent in recent years - and this is due to the previous governments - the internal attitude of government payments, the unsuccessful reforms - and not a reform measure there is only timely measures - the complete anti-developmentist logic, the dismantling of the reserves on your permanent grounds that you have received a burnt land and that you have completed it with the more than 51 billion taxes collected by our fellow citizens, in exchange for only 910 million euros or 1/50 euro in micro-processions, with a small exception of all the penalisation and all this Scottish shower that you have made in recent months in the last few months. And the great surpluses - badly lies, you all know - are the result of the four years of tax policy that you have against weak economic strata of the population. In fact, the only mechanism that seems to operate in this government - and in a scientific way - is the tax escapist. In tax receipts, you're excellent! Therefore, instead of ensuring that the economy develops and produces new wealth, you will every day deal with the real rhyphetological management of your own client state, without regard for the real socially weak. You are giving poverty benefits and you are in a continuous and long-term care bazaar, which only does bad, because it really addicts citizens into constant micro-enterprises. For the SYRIZA Government - ANEL first, its electoral needs come. And you have therefore included the whole economy, all the ministries, this budget in the polling plans, undermining any hopes of recovery. It is a policy that, together with the anaemic Public Investment Programmes and the brakes of the major privatisations, is a guarantee of new burdens on our fellow citizens. There is no concern about how we will lead to growth. There is no question of how foreign investment will come, how the banks will recover, how unemployment in young people, currently at 38% - and indeed 1/4 of these are long-term unemployed, that is, over 12 months of work - or how the climate of economic confidence will return. In other words, after the Brain Drain for our Youth, another tranquil demonstration of the lack of confidence in the prospects of our economy is business Drain. It is a new terminology that deals with the fleeing of major companies - listed or not on the Stock Exchange - not with the instability, overtaxation, the criminalisation of the business, the so-called high country risk make by SYRIZA - ANEL, which makes it forbidden to borrow and develop them. Forbidden, however, it is also the country's lending. In 2019, 11.8 billion euros have to be repaid from the public debt and no one is here - none of you - to tell us whether the so-called liquidity pillow or'security pillow' - as you wish to say - will be taken away for this purpose, as it is clear that exit at a reasonable rate is excluded as long as you remain in the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will not be too late. I, too, need a minute or two, like previous colleagues. The spreads at the moment, instead of going to 2% and allowing a "clean exit" on the markets, are on the way to 5%. That's how you say we're out of the memoirs. Ladies and gentlemen, from this plan without a plan - I could say - the country and our citizens have nothing to expect. While it seems clear - and we understand - that the economy is drifting, the government continues to apply a distorted fiscal policy and is based on overtaxing everything, without a trace of development strategy, simply by sharing right and left some bonuses and benefits. Nowhere in the world has the development of electoral policies or the redistribution of the "pipe" from the poor to the poor. It is time for political stability, cooperation, understanding, consensus, real and substantial plans to come out of the crisis, because this is the only way to bring about investment, only unemployment will be reduced, and only then will the country slowly return to normality. Clearly we are voting against the 2019 budget for all ministries and codes. In conclusion, I have heard Mr Vetta, your general rapporteur - he is now missing, unfortunately - who has dealt with the issue of the Prespecies. Is your Government proud to sign an agreement that has not been passed by a council of political leaders, has it not been passed by a cabinet? Because you know that your government partner would never agree to proceed with the Prespecies Agreement. Haven't you heard the people that 80% of that doesn't want the name? And for the name of the party, because all the parties here fail to say about the name. You're only talking about ethnicity and language. The name isn't struggling for anyone, it's not a red line for anyone. Eventually only for the Centro Association, the name is a red line. And that's what it wants, and 80% of the Greek people, and that's why they were protesting at the rally, for the sake of name! Not for language, not for ethnicity or for anything. It's the name you're all giving it. That is the truth and no one admits it, it does not come out to say that this is the real problem. And because of the name, everything is growing from the other side, all the alpha-corrosive tendencies are growing. You say that those who speak of the name are nationalists, but when Mr Zaev goes out and says that Macedonians are the only ones, you do not go out to condemn, but you only make any comments like "I would draw his ears in every way and in every reason". Most of all, you're going without your government partner. In fact today, your government partner will vote for the budget and then a month later he will threaten you to drop the government. This is the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government. And he went out to tell us Mr. Vettas about chairs, that the chairs are left by the incompetent. The chairs, ladies and gentlemen, are kept by the apostates and you will be looking in the hallways to pass the Prespecies Agreement. Good night and good luck - we say - in a month when the government partner threatens you to be shot by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u217	We thank Mr Marios Georgiadis, rapporteur of the Centroon Union. Mr George Amyras, rapporteur from the Potami, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking of avoiding the temptation of a comment in the last about apostates and apostasy, Mr Georgiadis, because when such heavy words are heard in Parliament on such matters, we must also have some evidence, otherwise the rhetoric about apostates, about apostasy, traitors and betrayal, becomes toxic and is not good for anyone at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u219	It's your opinion, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u220	Hey, what am I gonna say, your opinion? I'll say mine. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard about the government's financial staff celebrating, certainly government MPs from ANEL and SYRIZA celebrate the supposed achievements, they say, in the economy and promise better days to the citizens. What's the reality? The reality shows what the SYRIZA Government's choices were - ANEL throughout the four-year period and is clearly reflected in this budget, in the 2019 budget. I note, therefore, five basic things that are the central choices of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL. First choice: beastly surpluses instead of growth. My dear Mr Chakalote, no one has understood why the government has decided to give a much greater austerity to the economy than it really needed to achieve the primary surpluses. No one has benefited other than lenders, who have seen the willing ministers drain households and businesses by overtaxation, in order, of course, to direct money into the lenders' vaults to repay loans. Second choice of SYRIZA - ANEL government, as clearly reflected in this budget and it covers the entire four-year period in which SYRIZA and ANEL have developed their governance, are taxes, taxes, taxes, taxes, instead of a public combination. Overtaxation is always present, and if something will be remembered by the people of your passing to the government, it is taxes. Constantly more taxes! And in the midst of the so-called proud negotiation, Greece ended up being a tank of tax burdens. The VAT even increased in food. In the humble macaroni you were at some point mocking - not personally - their price increased, and from 13% of VAT, you took him to 24%. At the same time, however, post-mortem employees were growing and being approached. Saving public spending has completely left your vision. Thirdly, one-use dividends instead of creating a permanent stable security mechanism to protect our weakest people, our weakest fellow citizens. Therefore, during the four-year SYRIZA - ANEL overcrowding, Mr Tsakalote, exceeds 11 billion euros. Of these EUR 11 billion, EUR 9 billion went to creditors for the repayment of loans. We have EUR 2 billion left of surpluses which, as is well known and accepted, have arisen from overtaxation. You may not say 'overtax', but I will say from overtaxation. You will say from fair taxation. Of the EUR 11 billion overcrowded, 9 billion went to lenders. There are 2 billion euros left. The EUR 1 billion was repaid as a dividend following judicial decisions and we are left with something less than EUR 1 billion that is the return of the dividend from all over the world, that is, we have a very low fraction, with no future. It's one and the other. There is no fixed mechanism that ensures and ensures that the social and economicly weakest will have a permanent share of the dividends resulting from the surplus. I can tell you again that the surpluses in four years of SYRIZA - ANEL amounted to 11 billion euros. The EUR 9 billion has been received by lenders, EUR 1 billion has been returned to social groups following judicial decisions and another EUR 1 billion is what you are making the return of people's tax-payers. What concerns me very much is that the institution of guaranteed income has not become a central policy in our country. You've left it as a secondary option, and it should be the primary one. Fourth selection of this government, as reflected in the 2019 budget, is most recruitment instead of a larger Public Investment Programme. You are plundering the Public Investment Programme and increasing public recruitment. But who will ultimately pay the giganticity of the public sector? And you're saying that recruitment would be done in a safe way? Oh, no. Even for the selection of the General Secretaries of the Ministries we have from the Commission a'red card' which says: 'No party. Create a way of hiring and selecting general secretaries on the basis of objective criteria rather than party criteria." Your fifth choice is public debt. You charged the public debt extra burdens from the third memorandum, the Tsipras - Kammenos Memorandum and increased private debt. The public debt in 2016 was EUR 326 billion. We see that now, according to the budget, it will reach EUR 357 billion and hopefully it will fall slightly to EUR 346 billion. In other words, you have received 326, you have taken it 357 with a hope to go to 346 and I would tell you that not only did you not tire the debt, as you were saying, but you have let it come out and blushes, you will allow me to say a small amount of jealousy. As far as public debt is concerned, then, things are being burdened. In relation to private debt, however, the situation is even worse. Just yesterday, the figures from the Ministry of Finance were announced, according to which the unpaid taxes in October exceeded EUR 927 million. More than four million fellow citizens, in fact four hundred thousand taxpayers owe the public and the total debt has exceeded EUR 103 billion. So from the movement "I don't pay, I don't pay" you have gone by your policy in the movement "I don't have to pay, I don't have to pay". I conclude, Mr President. Thanks for the tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and ANEL leave the economy in a worse position than you have found it. The public owes more. The public's off the market. Households have lost significant income available. Investments have been detached. The banks cannot finance the market. You failed on the front of development. You have undermined the prospects and tomorrow of the Greek economy with too many burdens and obstacles you have put on the way. You've added risks. For these reasons, Potami is voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u221	Thank you Mr Amyras, rapporteur-General from the river. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. I was listening to the majority rapporteur, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, in a committee for a bill of Migration Policy Minister, on which the government should apologise for what management has done. In fact, the placement was extreme, she was very aggressive. I don't want to repeat what he said. When the Minister asked him to bring a lead on what he was saying, Mr. Varvitsiotis searched his papers. He was talking about 1600,000,000 mismanagement for the refugee. It matters why I'm starting with it. He searched his papers and what did he say with the hood again? That there is a citizen near Moria, who from a plot renting it for two and a half thousand a year, earned money by renting it in a NGO for a thousand. So the whole story was for nine and a half grand a year. He had no other argument, and yet he was talking about the 1,600,000,000 people who need research, perhaps committees, etc. I'm starting with this to get in touch with from the beginning. I would like to remind you that the committee spokesman, Mrs Natasa Berto, on 26 September 2018 clearly said: 'No mismanagement of funds of any kind has been found so far', stressing that the Greek Government has managed only 354 993 000 and that with absolute transparency. Here I would like to remind you that there is the UN High Commissioner for Immigration and there is the International Organisation for Migration. These two organizations managed a huge sum. If Mr Varvitsiotis or the New Democracy do have any evidence that a mismanagement has taken place, there is no objection. We don't have a problem. The money was managed with absolute transparency by the Greek Government. This is one of the many scandals that the Civic Opposition has recently invented. I'm saying that because I lived it yesterday. I repeat: the money was 354 000, with all the documents and with absolute transparency. This is one of the scandals. When we asked him, he told us about the nine and a half grand. What does it call it? "He gave the mountain, and he gave it to me." This is one of the scandals. Let's go to ours. Before I begin, I want to say a good word - I don't level anything - for Nikos Dendias. I was pleased to hear this Member at the end of his speech opening forefront with the Golden Dawn and saying: 'I am personally disappointed at the presence in the House of the paranormal of neonazism, the offspring of the Nazis'. Although I disagree on many things with Nikos Dendias, I believe that he is a decent Member of the Officerial Representation, and I think it is appropriate to highlight this position, especially at the specific times and hours we are spending. Let's go down. There has been a lot of talk - I often hear it - that you 'give the government over that the country was ready to take over' etc. This argument from the Qualified Opposition is very often heard. I would therefore like to remind you that in April 2014, the country's budgetary figures collapse and the deviations in the primary surplus exceed 4 billion. Listen to that. Four billion. The divergences between objectives and the effects of GDP exceed six billion. Unemployment is thawing. At the end of December 2014, 27.5% rests. I say this again because I hear the argument that you 'didn't leave the government, we had done it all'. Unemployment in the country reaches and exceeds 1,300,000 people. Already 40% of the income of all Greek citizens has been lost. How much simpler to say? Debt has reached 180% of GDP. I'm telling you this so we can get to know each other. I think I have the experts in front of me and you can ask them if I'm overreacting or saying something fake. In 2015 and 2016, the then government of Samara - Venizelos had to find 54 billion dollars and return them to the lenders. We all know that money didn't have it. I don't want to start the details. So this government has fallen from the burden of its failure. He's gone, he's escaped. I just can't say it. There is one saying that you say: 'Take ten and give one'. I often hear that argument, and I think it's worth seeing it in detail. Eleven were the Prime Minister's commitments in Belgium. With the exception of one or two, it has established them all, 29% at 25% for businesses, the reduction of HPAI, the payment of a trade fee, the reduction of insurance contributions to 1/3, 50% for young people who are 24 years old, so we also beat unemployment, the housing subsidy for 340,000 families, the reduction of taxation, the recruitment of 7,500 people to the treatment. Hold that. It is 4,000 in special education and 3,500 for "Help at Home". And I want to make a comment on 'Help at Home'. And because I often hear 'ten', he says, 'you took and gave the one'. Let's go to the 2014 budget. What did the governments of Venizelos - Samara? Seven hundred eighty million. What does that government give? Five times up, four billion. If you want, I can tell you in detail. The social state was lost, there was nowhere to be found. Nowhere! And because some still think that these are tips, allowances and something like that, I will remind them that the social state is not charity, is a step forward in growth and is increasing GDP. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] There are two worlds here that collide and collide very loudly: the children of the market, where the rich are few and become richer every day, society on the rocks and on the garbage - as our country has gone to the rocks with this mentality - and there is a social state, which is a prerequisite for the development of the country. These two worlds collide today and clash very hard, so hard that some can't stand it and that's why they invent various tricks. I want to remind you here with numbers: I hear very often an incredible number. Depending on how some wake up, they say: In the first half of this government - often, not once and twice - 80 billion. If they've woken up a little more savagely they say 100 billion and take it 200 billion a time. Can we see the numbers? Public debt: What is forecast for 2019? There are 323.5 billion or 167.8 % of GDP, a reduction of 12.6 percentage points. In 2017 it was smaller and uploaded in 2018, we do not hide it. Because it went up in 2018, but not 80 or 100 billion. Cashback cash-flows, of which a partial use is to be made in 2019. What do I mean? Then a few billion went up. False news? Every day we listen to her. Let me remind you of something else, because they are resorting to tricks, like the one for the refugee, which is of great importance. I would therefore like to remind you that all the publications - and what Mr Marinakis has checked recently - have been caught with a sea bass and have taken out a wretch. I call them "swamps of power", which all the powers have, everywhere and always. He was a friend of this Minister's, he got rich, he made, and he went out and said. Two things, however, were disguised: One is the very many photos taken by this guy with Marinakis, with the particular Marinakis and some others. I really don't blame them for that, because that's their job. But what was silenced is this: he approached a shipowner, this guy, to do business. The shipowner takes the President of the Greek Shipowners, Thodoris Beniami, and says to him "The President, it and it, I have been approached by the seaman". "Catch, man" he says, "to ask in Maximos". So he asks in Maximus and tells him that this man has nothing to do with the government and in any case does not represent it. The president of the Greek Shipowners tells him, he publicly declares it, and the other avoided knowing. This is another scandal. A communicationist, because they did not have the risk for the first assessment, neither the risk for the cutter, nor the risk for the second one, nor the credit line, nor the fourth memorandum, nor the Eye, nor someone told them that 'children should play with scandals'. And every day they invent a scandal. Another scandal that has never been made, one that has been annulled and not done, is a scandal and that is the leap in Saudi Arabia. Another scandal is the sale of "Eleftherios Venizelos". Read kids, read some. It's not bad to read, because you'll avoid the gaffes. Another scandal is what Spirtz signed in "Thriasio". You forget, meanwhile, the next day. The last one was that guy I told you about and not a word about anymore. But I would like to say another thing: Recently, the holy bank of capitalism, which is the Wall Street Journal, is talking about how the European Union and its countries are developing. Three - four days ago - I say again - 'Wall Street Journal', the holy bank of global capitalism, writes: 'In areas such as agriculture, construction, transport, catering services and so on, they show that they fall'. In other words, it points out that countries in the European Union are not doing well. And writes "Wall Street Journal": "The only optimistic point of forecasts for the last quarter of the Eurozone is Greece, which, although far weaker member of the Eurozone, doubled the growth rate during the same period." I cannot imagine that she has been influenced by this government as well. Finally, because I will not have much time, I would like to say that a terrible proposal has recently been made. I think it is very advisable to highlight it. I am delighted to hear the Prime Minister speak, when he returned from Brussels, about something new, a new structure in the European Union, if we do not want it to be dissolved. So, with fifty scientists, economists, politicians and historians, Picketty made concrete proposals. It was so important that the proposals which GUARDIAN, 'LE MONDE', 'DE SPIEGEL', 'REPUBLICA' and 'REPUBLICA' were put forward as a risk bell, so that the European Union could not be dissolved. What do these proposals say? I call it fat. First of all, let us say that it is not just the issue of the democratic deficit.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Papachristopoulos, do you want a minute or two?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u224	Two minutes and I shall end, Mr President. It's not just climate change, it's not just poverty, it's immigrants, it's putting it all on and they're suggesting that the rich be taxed. It is very clear that the Prime Minister said who can be taxed, entered into the European Union's account, some 800,000, 000 euros, not to see what happened to McCron in France. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make two comments. It made me a terrible impression, at least I am very careful - which said: 'I want to end with SYRIZA' - does not matter if it is another party - 'not just about what he does, but about what he believes'. What does the poet mean? In this debate Mr Voridis had told her, whose history we know about. What will it do with the minds of some who have another view on matters? Where's he taking it? Why does that remind us of other things: prosecuting ideas, prisons, exiles, what? What does he mean? How? And, to end with other false news, I would like to remind you: Recently two demographic companies, MEDRO ANALYSIS and PUBLIC ISSUE, have taken two polls that give before New Democracy - well we are completely extinguished, but the mountains are common in snow - one by 14 points and the other by 11,5 points. I would like to remind you here: these two companies, the 'PUBLIC ISSUE' and the 'METRON ANALYSIS' - and I speak with data, I have it in front of me, I do not improvise - the 22 points of the referendum were seen at the limits of the statistical error or at half the level of the other. I'm saying again, so reliable! I would also like to remind you - for those who do not know - recently KAPA RESEARCH has taken a poll, and the difference is 4,7. I'm one of those people I've asked three topical questions to get rules in the polling companies. Mr. Leventis swings his head because he's a victim and he knows what I'm saying, you pay and he gets what you want. This story must be finished definitively and irrevocably. And know some people who are excited in this room with fake evidence that seven out of ten don't answer, Mr. Leventis. We know it's paid polls. Three responding and on them are the results, the 4.7%, or how much we give you and go saying. Finishing I think something good starts. He said my friend, Mr Georgiadis, I think he was unwise - I want to say that, Mr President, and I conclude - that some are apostates and something like that. I have a post, friend Marie, which is written twenty-four years ago. I was a trade unionist then in the "Evangelism", on the board, and when father Mitsotakis, the late Constantine Mitsotakis, proposed a complex name, and the only one who supported him was Leonidas Kourkos, not his party, nor PASOK, I was the only one I published in "ELETEREROTYPTIA" - I can give it to you - a letter in favour of the complex name of that time. Well, well, I think you said that, I have nothing with you, just the truth is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and four educational sessions from the General School of Stylida. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Our dear children, but also ladies and gentlemen, we are on the fifth day of the budget debate on the last day. The vote on the 2019 budget will take place this evening. Almost all the Members and thirty-five spoke - if I am not mistaken, we will give the details later - Ministers, Deputys and Undersecretaries. Mr Papachristopoulos was the last of the parliamentary representatives of the parties to speak and enter the final stage of the process. In this last phase, the heads of political parties will speak in reverse order of the power of the parties in the Chamber. In the end, Mr. Juliarakis, who is the Deputy Minister of Finance and Mr. Tsakalotos, will also speak, who is the Minister of Finance. That's the process. I call on the President of the Centro Parliamentary Group, Mr Vassilis Leventis, in Step. Mr President, you have the floor for twenty-five minutes. I believe that you will be able to express your views within twenty-five minutes or more if necessary. It's your issue, but it's ours for the economy in general. However, I do not put pressure on you in advance, nor will I then force you, you know, so I am now saying that. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u226	My regards to everyone, because they are no longer at noon, to the President, to the ministers who are in the seats and to the colleagues, men and women who are present and present in the Chamber. As Mr Papachristopoulos referred to apostates, we should explain what is a apostate. Apostate is one when elected with a party, it disagrees with something - let us accept that it disagrees - and does not deliver the seat and move from party to party. He's a renegade to me. At the moment, four members of the Centro Association are in different parties, all parties, while they were elected on a list of the Centro Association vote. And a smaller offense was made by the apostates, a bigger offense by the parties that accepted them, because if Mr. Sakellaridis and Mrs. Katrivanou had followed this tactic to leave the parties, you know very well that the government would have fallen from 2016. And it is not to Parliament's credit that there are the heads of parties who have given a roof to 'yellows'. It's not in honor, but we're over it. It's become football now, political life. But isn't the election day coming? There the apostates will disappear, and your parties do not think they will be punished, because I discuss with voters of all the parties and tell me that what happened is not honest. In fact, they tell me: "Did you not notice who you were putting?" They're putting some responsibilities on me. And I'm answering, didn't Mr. Mitsotakis notice Mrs. Papacosta? Was he careless? In 1965, about seventy Members left the centre association, was George Papandreou careless? It was just a corrupt political system and through distances the elected government was overthrown. That's all we need to explain, because he says he went to that party. We call it a bakery and get in to get bread. That's in response to what's a renegade. Apostate is one who goes out with a party, doesn't honor the vote, if he has disagreement delivers the seat and in the next election he puts where he wants. To disagree, you have a right to betray, you have no right in my opinion. There is the decent solution to go home and at the time of the elections to the combinations he has acted consciously. That's not forbidden. We are talking about the economy and the budget, and the government thinks that these measures are taken, that we should help one order, that we help the other, that we give a bonus, are relief measures. And he says, "Would you guys not vote for them?" And the government rejoices, because its opponents are also voting for them. Giving charity from here and there is economic policy, is it an economic policy? We've been flinching the people for eight years, and now we're relieving him with the 300 euros? Is it an economic policy that we will honour? Why do you say 'we vote'? At least you in the Centroon Union know why we're voting? Why not vote if it's something the poor guy gets, why not help? We can't find a reason. And I imagine the same is the criterion of all the parties that vote. I don't think that's a different criterion. But it is not a reason to rejoice that you have reached a consensus. Consensus is other things that you did not achieve at all. Do you think the Centro-Conscious Association has consented to the people getting the poor 300 euros, and that is why the world must vote again for you? I think the country wants to develop an economic policy and not a charity. With charity you may think you will get votes, but it is not the world now with 300 euros or 500 euros to change party a few months before the election. It is not stupid, that is to say you are horrendously underestimating intelligence by relying on the fact that these measures will change the world's vote. There are now some retrospective decisions. First of all, I do not agree with the retrospectives of the judiciary, with the retrospectives to university professors. I don't agree. Those were the first ones to take retrospectively or the fat people? I went to the camp "Kopta" the day before yesterday in the Minidium and they're unconnected with power. There are families who are starving, and they are taken by metropolitan food. Who had priority in supporting them, the judges or them there? Tell me! I saw one thing I couldn't imagine. I saw women and children in the arms and they begged me to connect the current. And they've cut - he says - half the electricity and are ready to cut it off from the other half. Inside the Minidium. I mean, what you share doesn't share with those who really suffer. You share them with a vote criterion. The S.H.E.'s judicial decisions have now begun, we have badly cut the wages for all civil servants. And I saw in the reasoning of the 6th section of the Council of State that 'courts are not sure by cutting the wages paid by civil servants if they can live in dignity'. And I say, well, when did the judges of the Council of State also wake up? Did they ever realize that, with wage and pension cuts, this dignity of the citizen is also at risk? When did the judge find out now? It took eight years, thirty-five times to cut the pensions, so the judges could wake up? But if we start, and we pull out the sweater, they'll get the rest of it. Could the problem of the economy be solved and I didn't understand it? Did there be an investment orgasm in here and I didn't understand it? I met, getting into the Chamber, some people who make fun of them - says - and request renewal of their contract. It opens the appetite to everyone. When people hear that we give one another, we give one another decisions here, decisions will come from there. Have you calculated in the Hall how easy it is to dismantle the sweater? Have you really calculated it or because it's probably in a few weeks' time, do you play it all for everything? Because I'm afraid some people in here are playing it all. You're talking about fifteen thousand assignments over three years. Are you gonna be the three-year government, or are you also deciding on the next government? That's humiliating. Promise appointments for the post-SYRIZA era. Either you've got a contract with the people that you're going back out or you're out of your mind. Another explanation I can't give. You made the appointments five to leave, five to come, because - he says - there are gaps. It seems you did not understand that bankruptcy came from appointments. Because appointments also have a large percentage of wages. Not all appointed bidders are. Did you do any evaluations? None at all. Mitsotakis says to do an evaluation, but I don't trust him either. Do you know why I don't trust him? Why did he go to do then, when he was at the Ministry of Administrative Reform, some of the available resources and I saw them smoked in the museums all those who made them available and asked: How long do you want? Four years - he says - to retire. I tell them and what are you doing here? "We drink our coffee until the four years have passed." Well, that's how the four years will be. In other words, they were taken from jobs that, perhaps, offered something - perhaps they did not offer - and the New Democracy did go to jobs that certainly did not offer anything. That's how some people mean the availability. They didn't make any evaluations there too. With their broom, they took them from OSE from various agencies. For red loans you all say that you will change Katseli's law, you will reincorporate many, you will increase the amount from EUR 100,000 to EUR 150,000, etc. I see that auctions and first homes have begun and thousands of houses are in funds. Let us say 'no, for now we are putting rich, for now we are choosing'. If you know now, when they come to the hammer of ten thousand houses, can you choose? Two here and you can't choose. You better be honest and honest and say that in this amount that the fund gets, we give a semester, if the beneficiaries themselves take it. The borrowers themselves may - give them a semester - be able to respond to how lazy they are. Even do what shows elementary mercy to some who are victims of the crisis. You, when you came in 2015, had promised that you would smash memos and have voted for you people who thought you would give them the loans completely. I also had my relatives, people who thought you'd give them the loans and they didn't vote for the Centro Association, they voted SYRIZA. And people now don't tell you what they think of you. Not to tell you what you gave them. I'll tell this in the Chamber. In 2009 Greece did not need the madness of George Papandreou, who went to China, Russia to find money and the other madmen of Samaras. Because he also was crazy about "Zappeia". While, officially, the party was a European, it went to the "Zapopeia" and thanked the crowds that it would deal with Europe. Then came Tsipras, who promised to change Europe. What Greece wanted in 2009 was a Memorandum of ours, namely a voluntary memorandum, without pimps, to make our own reductions and reduce the growth of deficits. Then the markets would save us. Instead of doing this, however, a voluntary austerity, which we would be the rulers and the decision-makers, we let things go behind selfishness go to the extremes and then we went to the hands of lenders. This was then left because of the egos of Papandreou, Samaras, Tsipras. No one told the truth to this place. Who told her the truth? Here the country collapsed, and they said there was money, another said in "Zapopea" that it had other solutions. No solution. And the New Democracy now promises growth, an investment explosion. They put the word "explosion" of investments. Are you going to put a bomb on the investments, like the one they put in the Alfouzo? That's the kind of bomb you're gonna put in to make investments? I don't understand. Why didn't you make an investment in Samaras? An investment to tell me where you were during Samaras. Why do you say Tsipras stopped you? Indeed, you were stopped by Tsipras. Then Tsipras was in the bars. I remember the Durus with Constantopoulos at the ERT, those bars that moved them. But what investments did New Democracy bring to rely on you? Investment explosion, tax reduction. How will taxes be reduced? Who's gonna cover the void? Who's New Democracy making fun of? You blame Tsipra for making fun of him, but you do it too. The political system has learned to mock. It has no other way of surviving this political system than mocking citizens. That's the way. Instead of reforms in Greece, reforms have not been carried out. Some people have only been in the House on paper. But, if you think this is reform, you are mistaken. Reform means reforming society, believing the people in reforms too, feeling the need for the people to contribute and not curse Europe. Where I am, everyone finds Europe. That's what you've achieved. You have succeeded in banging the whole of Europe. It is not Europe's fault. Europe has asked for reforms from the outset. You guys were scared all along and lied to the world. You are the guilty and not Europe. What is the fault of Europe? Europe in the first place said that it must all be changed in Greece. For example, in the pension system some received three pensions. As the Union of Centres, we have said a system of pensions with income criteria. And you don't. Did Australia miss anything that did it? A right-wing guy came out - I don't remember, that was Kumucacus? - and he said that calculations should be made for what Mr Leventis says about whether cutting rich pensions can save the insurance system. I ask: has Australia, Canada, which did so horizontally cut off any pensions, as we cut in this country? They cut off Grandma's milk, grandpa's and grandson's milk? Did they cut things like that? Since there are countries of the western type that have survived on income criteria, why are you not putting them on? And now the allowances you give must be given on income criteria, everything, tax exemptions, everything! Because these aids are in danger of going in the wrong direction. At least these little aids, the invaluable value, should go even where they should. I told you about the "Kopta" Camp that it has no power inside the Minidio, ten kilometers from Athens. And you retrospectively give the judges and university professors. Do they need it? Let's come to the scout a little. The government insists that those who do not agree with its viewpoint are far-right. Do you know what the argument was about some ambassadors who came to pressure me? "Is it possible to have the same views, Mr. Leventis, in the Central Association, a democratic party with the Golden Dawn?" So, democrat is whoever grants from the rule of the patronage and whoever doesn't assigns is a fascist? Are you giving this kind of value to fascists? You are of great value to fascists, because you present them with nothing to give. What's the truth? That mistakes had been made by Constantine Karamanlis with the language in 1977. Have mistakes been made by Dora and Kostas Karamanlis in 2008 with their proposal for Macedonia (Skopje), which was not accepted? Because the others wanted to be "Macedonia". It would have been accepted. But what did you guys come here to do? Did you come to the mistakes of everyone to say 'all down, take it all' and show Europeans? Did you bring any objections to the Americans? Did you bring an objection? To me, the ambassador left my office twice when I told him "if next to New York was another New York, would you accept it?" It says to me "you are right". Hey, where are we wrong? Why should the Greeks be strangers' spoon? I do not understand why the American, English, German and Greek should have dignity not. What's Greek? Was the Greek not always present in the tests for the free world, did he not shed his blood willingly?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u227	Does the Greek not have dignity? If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u228	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u229	Apparently, I'm talking about governments, not Greek, sir. Would you turn Greeks into meditation? Was Greek taken into consideration? Please don't play, sir, and I don't know your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Papadopoulos is and you know his name.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u231	He can't play. I'm talking about leadership, about governments. I'm not talking about the Greek. Are you defending the Greek and granting Macedonia? Well done, then! I say to you in this Chamber that if you dare and vote for Macedonia in this way, namely two of one party, two other apostates, taking votes from here and there, and going through that, the Greek people will not legalise such bills. The Greek people will not swallow them. Be careful, you may laugh now because laughing often is also a sign of anesthesia. I don't insult anyone, I just don't always laugh. Many times he laughs, and the no-one has a reason. But I'm telling you, history will write very black letters to those who will be assigned. And in the meantime, I don't think the Greek people will accept. From there on, after the elections, the main task will be to abolish this infamous agreement. This will be the main task of the new Parliament. As for Mr Mitsotakis, who does not like the language and nationality, he obviously likes the name, since he was also his sister's desire and father's desire to give the name. One speaker used it before here as an argument - Mr Papachristopoulos - that Mitsotakis was giving it to the old man. That's a good argument. After the old man gave it up, why wouldn't SYRIZA give it to him? That's a nice example. Take an example in this way. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] I believe that the Greek people will not legitimize it. It will be a damn history and we will work in the next House to cancel the agreement. It is a shame that this Chamber will do these things for Macedonia. Macedonia is the soul of Greece. It's not nice to say that "we're doing it, because it did it in 1977 one and the other" and in 2008. In other words, it is not right for you to base your own moderation on past reductions. Clearly, the Centro Association will cancel the deal with our powers. If the people don't want us, bye, with your pleasure. Listen, it's the will of people. Whatever the people want will be done here. If the people vote again for you, New Democracy and SYRIZA, with pleasure, they take their own eyes out. But if the people give an increased power to the Central Association, I am now saying that to support any government I will request the annulment of the Prespecies Agreement. And that's if you pass it. Because I suspect that the mind of Tsipras has another solution, that is to say, to pass it in the hands of Mitsotakis, who has so far said "do not give" and then under pressure from the American Embassy will be unraveled on the night of the elections and we will have a fucking ball, the biggest of the story. While so far "colotobas" is called Tsipras in dictionary, Tsipras will be replaced and we will have Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the fucking dictionary. There's gonna be a change in dictionary. Or Tsipras will be a second solution. In "SKAI" they fired a bomb, and of course, we all disagreed with dropping bombs and resolving differences so or considering some to be political as bombers. It's stupid and psychotic at the same time. But I'll say something. When you so much raise the cove of polarization, SYRIZA and New Democracy, what do you think? Aren't there any thermo-heads who take this as an order for illegal acts? Don't you see that? Both SKAI and ERT have become both extremes, SYRIZA's ERT and New Democracy's SKAI. There are other channels that also play a parrot role. This is what happens when polarization rises so much. Those who come out of SYRIZA or New Democracy consider Tsipras to be sinless and Mitsotakis - I did not see a journalist of SYRIZA seeing a mistake in SYRIZA or a New Democracy seeing a mistake in New Democracy - they are professed to be without sin, that their orders are uncertain, and then they are ready to enter and candidates. You have in mind that too many television parrots may be in the next House, because they have a recognition. The people make their mistakes, too. You've been replaced by many parrots here in the next House. Those people who think the donkey is flying for Tsipras and the donkey flies for Mitsotakis. Alanthastos and Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u233	Mitsotakis told the Congress that there is a two-world conflict, and the next day at "SKAI" he said that this polarisation must be stopped, because it leads to evil. Previously, he became a polarization criminologist, and the next day he saw it was wrong. Nice Mr. Mitsotakis! I want to say a few words about what's a Center.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u234	We'll be closing in two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u235	Just a few words, Mr President, I will not bother the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u236	Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u237	I know that at night, Tsipras and Mitsotakis will be talking and they'll give recital here. I know this evening will be a recital. I don't doubt it, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u238	Do you want to speak incessantly? I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u239	We shall again have the applause of the theatre "ALIKI".
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u240	Please don't deceive colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u241	You know that many times Members here applaud for no reason. I mean, what's a Center. They come out and say that Mitsotakis, center-left, Tsipras, is right. I'll tell you what's a Center. The centre is the ideology that does not want acidity and excesses. This is the Center. The Center doesn't want a two-compartment. He just wants to be proportionate. The simple analogue that I came as the Central Association and voted for, Tsipras betrayed it. Because I told him that voting only doesn't mean anything. Every bill must try to spend two hundred and two hundred forty votes and not pass bills with a hundred and fifty-three votes. Because saying in your schedule that you have the simple analogue, but the bills to spend with Kammenos, with a hundred and two votes, are disgusting, that you don't believe what you're working on. That's what I told him. He didn't get it. Centre means consensus and democracy. This is where you deal with acidity and destruction. That's what you're doing! I told SKAI yesterday - I did not go to, call me and stand by their suffering - that the channels should be non-discriminatory. If you go, that is, to Germany, you will never see ZDF making a sermon in favour of Merkel all day. It is only here in Greece that this is the case. Only here in Greece when each canalarch thinks it's good enough for him to do whatever he wants. That is why Mr Pappas, who gave the permits, has probably had to accompany the licenses, which are public frequency rentals, from a regulatory framework of pluralism, isopoliticalism and impartiality. "Take leave and do what you want" is worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u242	It's called the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u243	Oh, well, you kept the Constitution! Do you know where you're writing the Constitution? What you're saying now about reviewing the constitution, why do you say it? Who are you kidding? Since a Constitution is to be reviewed, it must now have an eighty-eighty vote and then a hundred-five votes, or it must now have a hundred fifty votes and then an eighty-eighty votes. Will the next House have a hundred eighty? Are you going out? If you wash in such a way, go to sleep freely. Sleep!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor, head of the river. Here, Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u245	Let me start with a topical question before we go to the budget. What connects the barbers, the molotovs, the hammers? It was the 2008 invention to break the marbles. What connects vandalism, burnt ducks, burnt kiosks to the bomb to "SKAI" and "KATHMERIN"? For us all these are the rings of the same chain, the chain of violence that has chained citizens and does not let them feel free and do freely. Obviously, we don't make the mistake of saying that he's the same kid throwing a molotov away with the explosives placed in a building. But they are the symptoms of the same religion. It is a religion that we could call it 'barrolagenity'. The goddess is barbaricity and everything must be sacrificed to her altars. I will not now make a sociological analysis of how and why this barbarity is even in Paris and never dies in Athens. But I am going to talk about our responsibilities, namely those of the people who are in this Chamber. First, the responsibility of the government comes. The immunity everywhere and always of the gangs that are destroying, threatening and burning is not a social policy, but a criminal policy. I heard, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras at the beginning of the month, when Athens was being destroyed again, saying "December 2008 is not just a molotov, but..." - be careful! - "...is also the hundreds of multi-formal participatory actions developed throughout the country." I asked him, and now I challenge him to tell us or tell us, anyway, if you think it's even a "multiform participatory action" that developed in December 2008, when a large part of Athens was looted. Okay, have some marginalists, some extra-parliamentarians, but also the Prime Minister himself? Unless it's a password. Where are the platoons in Herod Attica? Why are they going? They are there to watch "multiform participatory actions". And after the government's responsibility, it is the responsibility of all the others. The rhetoric of intolerance, its rhetoric of division and finally its rhetoric of violence many times cannot be the language of modern politics. If a politician presents his opponent as the absolute evil, then why not throw a molotov away, why not enter a bomb? The enemy is targeting. So all of us must measure our words, not target citizens, not target journalists and political opponents. I hope that the leaderships of the two major parties have also decided to stop the banning comedy, SYRIZA and SKAI and the New Democracy with the ERT. But let's go to the budget. Minister, I think there are no taxes and contributions from your budget. Obviously the budget is full of taxes, something we know, but I am talking about the taxes that are missing from the budget. So the taxes and contributions from the investments you have fought are missing. Taxes and contributions from construction sites are missing in Greek. Taxes and contributions from projects in Afantou and Ixia are missing. The taxes and contributions of the investment projects that were broken in the rocks of bureaucracy are missing. The taxes and contributions from small and large investments that have never been financed by banks, which are now lame after the capital control, are missing. The taxes and contributions of young people who have emigrated are missing. Taxes and contributions are missing from all those who have left abroad, failing to deal with the adequacy and the customer party state. You continue, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA and ANEL, to get posteriors everywhere, to pause in this customer and party state. Only the presidents - we have a weakness in the arithmetics in Potami - and the members of the board of directors in the narrow public from a thousand to three in 2014 are today a thousand four hundred forty-nine. The public authorities, in close and wider terms, were two hundred twenty-seven in 2015 and became three hundred seventy-four. And you continue to increase private legal entities too. The temporary staff of private-law legal persons doubled in two and a half years and at the same time increased by 10% in public-law regular staff and legal persons increased from sixty-eight in a thousand two hundred eleven. You are proud, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you are the longest-lived Memorandum Government. And I ask you: have you not found any useless service, a useless organism, a useless legal person, merge it or abolish it? So tied up and housed were the previous ones? I'm still numbering the taxes we've lost. We have lost taxes and contributions from companies that migrate abroad, in Bulgaria and elsewhere, to the free professionals who closed their books. And at this point I will again make a stand: 4,700,000,000 incomes were in 2015 and in 2017 they have 3,300,000,000. In other words, 1/3 of taxable income has disappeared. So what else do you want to tax on incomes? In the middle class, what else can you get? From the free professionals you can't get much, because people over 30,000 annual incomes give up to 60% of their income in taxes and contributions. So here, in response to the question from where else to find money, it comes the idea of ejecting indirect taxes. And so, new taxes entered heating, oil, diesel, wine, coffee, internet, telephone. Look out! Since 2014 income from direct taxes has increased by 300,000,000 and revenue from indirect taxes has increased by 4,000,000. We are the country with the highest indirect taxes in the euro area. What does that mean? It means that we fight the weak households, the non-preferential Greeks with the most unfair social taxes, which are the indirect taxes. Because, of course, a bread and a Internet connection are needed by the poor and rich, and they will both pay the same increased taxes. What you are returning today to some with the social dividend, you have received multiples of indirect taxes. So, is there a solution? Is there another way for a government that wants to strengthen the social state? There is. Note, however, at EUR 415,000 million, the investments of 'FRAPORT' in the country's regional airports amount to almost half a billion. The infrastructures are being modernised, the country's image is being re-established, jobs are being created, money is being put into the state's funds. But let's take a closer look at this investment. It was agreed in 2013. You sabotaged her, slandered her. Do you remember then your fellow ministers, who said they would lie down in the hallways of the airports so that the Germans wouldn't come down? That's what some government ministers were saying today. However, the investment has finally entered the prerequisites of the third memorandum and you have had to retreat. This is the course of democracies, the history of investment in your years: conflict, sabotage, delays and ultimately naughty retreat, at incalculable cost, however, for the economy. If we go to page 137 of the report, we'll see how the immigration revenues in the years you're running come from decisions taken before you've even taken it. Of course, and in order not to blame you sold the OLF, you extended the concession of Athens International Airport, but how? At a sales price Mr. Tsipras would say. "They want to sell what is left in national wealth, so that the government of national salvation, which will take over very soon, is not in its hands the tools for productive reconstruction." Tsipras opposition. "The creditors also ask to take the valuables, to take silver, to take what's left." Tsipras, too. The social state, ladies and gentlemen, is social when it is based on the development and growth of the pie and not on a class-based discriminatory policy, as you recently call your own policy. It's the ones from the last century. The generous European social state was based on the wealth created by new entrepreneurship, innovation, the connection of university knowledge to production, excellence, consensus, social peace, the consultation of the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has been saying and re-speaking lately, pre-heatinging, I imagine, his party's machine, that Greece reached bankruptcy because of the systematic theft of wealth and goods by an elite who made its money abroad. Correct, but incomplete. It's half true, so in politics it's a lie. The party state? The government's waste? The guilds? Look out, the country today owes 330,000,000,000 euros. The state gave 200,000,000 euros from 2000 to 2015 to cover the deficits of the insurance funds. The OGA deficits were 74,000,000 and 45,000,000 IKA deficits. Huge pensions and privileges to customers voters, obviously of the New Democracy, obviously of the PASOK, but obviously also of the Left, because you may not have ruled with them, but you too were pressing and you threatened and you were taking possessions, and you supported all illogical claims. Hand, together you have built these last decades the customer party state, some with ministers, some with trade unionists. And if the insurance company's argument isn't enough, we can go to the public. Loss of supplies, waste in recruitment - hundreds of thousands of contract staff hired - waste in TECs with billions of euro deficits, huge wages and pensions at 110% of the final salary. Tell me what of this and when SYRIZA resisted or, anyway, the previous shape covered by SYRIZA. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you are accomplices. You are all defenders and stylists of a party state of graceful deeds and deficits and your government state proves that. I remembered the day before, in the presentation of Kostis Hatzidakis' book, the case of OSE, which I didn't exactly have in mind in my mind, to be honest. Hairier than Olympics! There was a year with a 1,000,000,000 deficit. A year, an organization, 1,000 million! He went to sell out of New Democracy 300,000,000 euros, went out to the bars and was finally sold by you, not 500,000,000, 45 million missing. So the Prime Minister's saying that the country's bankruptcy is due only to the corruption of elites is a convenient lie, a populism. Impossible of the rest of the responsibilities. They're avoiding the waste of the party state. Patient growth rates, huge investment deficits, overtaxation, clienteleration and ultimately misery redistribution have roots in ideologies and timeless populist government policy. Even today there are no development measures on the government's agenda which lead to increased jobs. But I was asking: What do we do now? As a country, what do we do? We should tell some truths that are common to all, not our truths, but truths about the country. The economy has tolerance until spring 2019. Then the Greek State will have to issue a ten-year bond. If this is not the case, and the government puts hands on the well-known 'cushion' of 24,000,000, will start the countdown and our assessment is that there will be no new memorandum, there will be no new aid, there will be no new planes from Frankfurt, there will be bankruptcy. What are we doing? It is good, obviously, that the economy records primary surpluses, but the way is wrong. Overtaxation, the reduction of the Public Investment Programme and the freezing of payments of late public debt are the wrong recipe. And then we have the division of surpluses. We have benefits instead of tax relief, instead of another tax policy. So we repeat the mistake that has brought us to the crisis and bankruptcy: we inflame consumption and increase the taxes. Reforms and I am not talking about what we want, I am talking about what you have committed. None of the sixteen prerequisites, which you should have completed by the end of 2018, has been implemented so far. At least that is what the first report by the European Commission on memorandum Greece mentions. Will these reforms be carried out, these changes, the ones you are committed to? Because the second assessment, as you know, comes in February and we expect, on the basis of the results of this second assessment, the positive vote of many parliaments to take this EUR 600,000,000 in return for profits from Greek bonds held by the central banks of the Member States. Where are delays observed? What are these sixteen delays? It is the staff of independent authorities, the repayment of dues, the legislative framework for red loans, the development of the primary health system, the gradual release of PPC by lignite - your own commitments - electronic upgrading of justice infrastructure to speed up its work. What about all this? Time's running out. It's not the end of time, in 2018, but it's the end of the country's time. You correspondingly cut over 1,000 million unemployed, students, young people insured. I am referring to a few examples: a reduction in the State contribution to medicines for insured persons - 240,000 000, you have guaranteed from there - a reduction in employment programmes for thirty thousand young people - 260,000, 000 - postponing the one-off reduction in the corporate tax rate, which you said, from 29% to 26%, which will only go down to 28%, postpone the measure which provided for increasing the number of jobs in nurseries, obviously a reduction in public investment by 300,000, 000 euros. However, ladies and gentlemen, non-wage spending on education, health, defence, justice and home affairs shows that a country is walking, showing whether there is a social state. And the fact that non-wage spending on education, health, defence, justice is in our country below the European average shows that your own policy is not in favour of many and the weaker. It is the last budget for 'SYRIZANEL'. However, what is important to the citizens is to think about your mistakes, to think about what you are not admitting, to think about what you are denying, to think about what you have not done, whether because you have been prevented by your ideas or because you are not able to do so, so that the country stays behind. But to draw up a new course, although it is good to know the mistakes of those who govern it, it is not enough. In order to draw up a new path as a society, as a country, we should be determined to avoid all mistakes of the past and of the recent and distant past. In 2019, then, Greece must return page. We need to see Greece otherwise. To do this, it is not enough to lose the election. The forces that have never grieved must be strengthened, the forces that have never been fooled, the forces that exhaust all their power not to deceive citizens, but to find solutions to young people, inspired, effective, tested, European and, ultimately, patriots. This is the call of our movement in Greek society. If he wants to see Greece otherwise, he must reward the forces that never fooled him, the powers that match the Greek who is tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Koutsopodio Argolidos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I invite Mr. Pano Kammenos, Minister of National Defence and President of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for our country, a day when a commitment is made to the nation, to our ancestors, but also to the political commitments we made before we set up the SYRIZA - Independent Greek Government. It was a commitment that was included in the founding declaration of the Independent Greeks, to reach the debate of a budget which will not be held by memoranda, a budget which will not be indicated by the creditors, which will recover the country's national sovereignty. Today we are doing this promise to the country and to the Greek citizens. It is the first budget of a free state after a ten-year economic crisis. It is not just the recovery of the country's national sovereignty. This year, starting on Thursday, from the bill submitted by the Ministry of Energy, Greece is now free to exploit its national wealth and especially the underwater and underground wealth with gas agreements that will completely change the form of the country. This is a reality at the time when Greece is exempted from the contracts and this development serves only Greek interests. From this step we had spoken about the exploitation of Greek stocks to be exploited by Greece and not of a scheme for the sale of public assets based in Luxembourg, as the previous government had signed, which would require lenders. It was the main objective that Greece entered into the crisis, which was the main objective that Greece bound to the memorandums. And this historic moment was carefully prepared by the government, by the entire government, by the Ministry of National Economy - and I would like to hang on to the government's financial staff for this result - by the Ministry of National Defence, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the position now in the country is very different from the position of 2010, 2012, and even 2014. Greece, with bilateral, tripartite and quadripartite agreements through Cyprus in the south with Israel, Egypt, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, in the north with Bulgaria and Romania, has become an axis of stability and the solution. We have now bound alliances that help to move the country into an energy hub. The US Minister for Foreign Affairs last week when discussing the strategic agreement with Greece put our country in the so-called Plan A, which means that Greece is now the first and main ally of the United States in the wider energy area. The pipeline linking stock from Cyprus, Egypt and Israel will shortly be going through Crete and Western Greece, a pipeline that will overthrow the geopolitical state of energy throughout Europe. Already in Alexandroupolis, the main energy reserve bank is built to help rehabilitate Europe from the energy monopoly up to now. This means investment by companies such as EXXON MOBIL, TOTAL, the United States and France, namely. This means security for the country, it now means passing over to a new era. These alliances were made on the basis of a government's decision with a lot of work and effort, with the involvement of our Armed Forces, who, despite all the pressure they have received during the crisis, have remained standing. Greece is now able to conduct exercises in the Air Force, with guests of Israel and Arab countries, which has never been done before. I have to make it clear here that it is all this policy that will lead to the exit from the economic crisis. The economic crisis, however, was not just the one that hit Greek women and Greeks. The economic crisis is what, as the last citizen is aware, has been permanent and a crisis of moral values. It was never economical in the Red Cross cancer fund, the scandalous amendments for the benefit of its multinationals, the tens of millions through virtual invoices to publishers and journalists of interlocutors to silence and cover, while, on the contrary, this money should be paid to citizens for public health. It was never a question of economics overvaluing public works fuelling the anti-democratic involvement of key shareholders. Key shareholders who have disappeared over the last four years, who have been responsible for the governance of the country. It was never a matter of economics to channel 4% of the applicants to 50% of the European Union's and PPC's financial instruments, excluding honest entrepreneurs, thus putting a bomb on the foundations of real growth and healthy competition, which creates a pretext and jobs for the business. Every Greek citizen should understand that the person involved in gangs to break down European funds will not invest a single euro in the real economy. And this immorality is becoming a national danger, seeing the billions that have been deprived of the National Defence to fill their bank accounts in Switzerland, which are now revealed by this government's contribution. The Ministry of Defence denounced eighteen disgraceful agreements, not after a celebration, but at the same time that Greek justice was in its hands today, having punished politicians for the first time, on the charge of money laundering, politicians who said they were covered by the limitation. For decades, however, there has been not only covert by the institutions of democracy, which are supposed to act as an adversary to the immorality of political power. There was a straight warfare to anyone who dared to react. A body of slandering publications, through journalistic organizations fed by illegal bank loans, through political bishops. Anyone who stood a target for the break-up of the country and the national economy was destroyed by slandering campaigns, which today by some blogs are continuing against the government. The previous governments have turned Greece from a sovereign power into a debt colony, just for their own personal benefit and have remained unpunished for decades. And I see today amazed at those who condemned the country in despair and caused a peculiar genocide to wear the patriot's cloak in order to rescue and deceive Greek citizens once again. Those who created the huge theme of Macedonia's national problem, surrendering the geographical designation "North Macedonia", and going with the planes of Christofer in Skopje to do oil business, come now and use the national and major theme as a vegetarian for their immoral and anti-national action. The applauses of Costas Simitis, the companions of George Papandreou are transformed into nationalists for the needs of their role, which is nothing but the return to power and the assurance of impunity of the gangs that support them. People who were indebted and bankrupt by the parties themselves, passing spotlessly hundreds of millions of millions of sea loans today are changing VDUs and as pedestrians coming to talk about supposedly free economy and growth. Politicians who were deprived of the market and business finance, creating tens of thousands of padlocks and a million unemployed, at the same time paying off their parties and state-owned entrepreneurs, who not only bankrupt their businesses, but who made money abroad on personal accounts. For this reason, we firmly believe that the Independent Greeks have a maximum objective, which is imperative to complete it with SYRIZA. And the goal is to return moral values to the heart of society. It is the punishment of those who have taken down public money. We arrived in 2010 with these immoral practices, when Simitis' s swaps were broken, which he never accounted for, since the Papandreou government never saw in the correspondence that the Commission asked for on this practice that was deemed illegal, so that Greek society and the Greek economy could be sacrificed. That's what made the old political system to save the country. Of course, they didn't to save the country. They did so to save banks, lenders and local jury, to effectively expel Greece from the European Union, because the coming of the International Monetary Fund only served that purpose. To circumvent the European acquis for Greece, by means of measures which would be brutal. And while they increased the tax burden on Greek citizens in some cases to 600%, they were unable to house the state, because they were never really interested in saving the Greek economy. Evidence is evidence: the 2010 deficit was EUR 24,000,000, 2011 was 19,000,000, 2012 was 19,400,000, 2013 was 22,000,000. The 2014 deficit was EUR 6,500,000. This means that, although they lifted the middle class, and destroyed the national urban order, they actually continued to do business with the complexion and the state-runners, thus depleting the sacrifices of the Greek people. We, therefore, who are not financially aware, in 2016, achieved the first budget of post-war Greece, except in '71 that had no deficits, no longer produced deficits and no longer needed for borrowing, which did not need to be subject to any further substantial measures. 2017 and 2018 this year is another such year. And in 2019 there is a year of surplus, not primary, but general government budget, i.e. the national economy no longer produces deficits. We managed and reversed the picture, after we received with governance in January 2015 with this mixture of 15% exports and 85% GDP imports. Today 35% are exports and 65% imports, while the European Union's average is 45%. But that's not all we've achieved. We also had to deal with the suffocating problem of public foreign debt. I am constantly listening to the argument and, unfortunately, to the Chief of Officer's Representation that we allegedly added weight to the Greek economy and to the public debt, when it says 800,000, 000,000, when 900,000,000,000, when 100,000,000,000. However, the official public debt bulletin of the Ministry of Finance 2014 reports that the public debt was 324,127,000 euros. The same official bulletin on December 31, 2015, one year later, says that the public debt is 321,007,000,0000 euros, or 3,000,000 euros below. Who added? What did we add? Not only did we add, but we removed. And you know where that money went, which wasn't 86, and it was 65 after all? Do you know where they went? In addressing the 85,000,000,000, which had been placed, as the then Minister of Finance Mr. Papaconstantinou admitted, to prevent the bankruptcy of the country, which he had transferred, as Mr. Koukoulopoulos had revealed in "MEGA" in 2015, to pay loans that you had received at 4% and 4.5%, i.e. at bank interest rates. And we had received that money at 0.9%, i.e. not even with 1% interest rate. With this money, we replaced the robbery loans you had taken. In order to address the public debt we raised the issue that the Independent Greeks had invoked in 2014, i.e. suspending the payment of part of the debt-sharing instalments in order to obtain a financial space for social policy and for the real increase in social wealth, which has been implemented. And because there is a lot of talk of entrepreneurship, whose opposition wants to appear as a protector, to refer to the memorableness of PASOK and the New Democracy reality. PASOK and New Democracy closed down thirty thousand businesses, more than they opened in 2010-2014. The corresponding figure for the period 2015-2017 do you know what it shows? A further thirty thousand operations. In other words, they opened thirty thousand more than the ones they closed down. That is why the Independent Greeks and I personally supported the difficult agreement of 2015, but that was the bridge to drive the monetary fund out of Greece and Europe. And when we changed politics, ladies and gentlemen, we didn't fuck. We asked for the approval of the Greek people and the Greek people again made SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks in September 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress here that at the time of the country's governance from PASOK, the LAOS and the new Samaras LAOS, you had been told to show that hard austerity programs are your own property. The lenders told you: "We take the measures, but you will present them as yours to the Greek people". And that's what you did. You did it without shame, without guilt, without hesitation. In the period 2010-2014 you took measures of EUR 65,000,000 and reduced the country's GDP by 25%. You were the mortals of the Greek economy and of the Greek society. You have turned the moral principles of our society, destroyed the national civil order and saved the disastrous business elite that supports you. You learned to do what you were dictated to. We will not forget Mr Hatzidakis from this Step by saying: 'If it is to reduce pensions, tell us, so that we can shape our programme as well'. That's the reality. You were following orders without taking national initiatives. I would also like to recall what Mr Mitsotakis said on 17-12-2016: "If Mr Tsipras thought about the country and not how he would lose dignity in the forthcoming elections, he would use overcoming the objective of the surplus as a negotiating weapon to achieve less measures for the future." And Mr Mitsotakis continues: "But he does not, firstly, because he does not know how the negotiations are being conducted and, secondly, why he does not care. He only cares about the communication show." But, Mr Mitsotakis, the reality is falsifying you. It keeps disputing your estimates and forecasts. The coexistence of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks has negotiated, saying that the high primary surplus we have achieved thanks to the unspeakable support of the Greek people, as well as the healthy Greek economy, is no longer needed in order to reduce pensions. We have achieved this because we have earned respect for everyone, because our partners have realised that social sensitivity is not a disadvantage. But it is the action of gangs that plunged public wealth. On the contrary, it is the reasons you have given, and this government has never given. So we are doing what we said on 21 August, when the tough Memorandum commitments were terminated. We are implementing measures to support the social patients and we will continue to do so, because the Greek people deserve it and need it. Ladies and gentlemen, you will now allow me to refer to the Ministry of National Defence and to the Ministries responsible for the Independent Greeks. The macroeconomic figures have been analysed by the ministers. We were responsible for the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence, with a sense of responsibility towards the Greek people. The Armed Forces are defending national interests every day. With justice we are trying to take measures that start from the recognition of the responsibility borne by our officers to the difficulties faced by the underprivileged, where hope remains unclean to the faces of thousands of executives, but also to the soldiers who serve with self-determination at home. I have said this many times, and I will not get tired of saying it until we all inspire it: the Armed Forces require national politics and unity. The budget of the Ministry of National Defence should be a field of consensus and consensus of all the political parties in this Parliament and not a field of confrontation and disagreement, as the risk is real and neglecting. We must put the Armed Forces together and outside the political controversy in order to get to where we once were, to vote on the budget of this ministry and against the opposition. We must isolate the extremist and miserable voices of micro-political purposes, wherever they come from. It is not my intention to confront the positions which have recently been expressed by officers of the Civilian Representation, because I believe in consultation on national issues and the allocation of defence funds is a point of national interest. However, while respecting the Greek people's money and their direction, certain facts should be noted, in order to be understood by everyone in this Chamber, the situation that has been created and which we have received in the area of national defence in recent years. I quote, therefore, the following elements: in the category of remuneration, the governments and the governments of PASOK - New Democracy, in the period 2009-2015, reduced the remuneration by about 35%, leading the personnel of the Armed Forces to impoverishment. With regard to the operational part of the budget, i.e. expenditure on fuel, military food, maintenance, the situation was even worse, as with the reduction in the 2015 budget in relation to the corresponding year 2009 it is close to 60%. In equipment, the decrease in this time period was around 68%. In summary, the decrease in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence for the period 2009-2015 was more than 50% and at absolute prices it exceeded EUR 3,200,000, as from 6,500,000,000 euros in 2009, plummeted to EUR 3,200,000,000 million in 2015, making, among other things, the Ministry of National Defence a protagonist of cuts, especially among the Ministries of large size. I do not think I need to comment on anything, except that if the Greek people's defence and security were held up, this is solely due to the high mind and morality of the Armed Forces' personnel, who, against every cut, defend with a sense of supreme responsibility the integrity of the country and its sovereign rights. I committed myself last year, but also in previous years, from this Step forward, to the fact that the seasons of experimentation, arbitrary and unplanned cuts in defence funds will be in the past with the present government. The seasons of constant inconvenience and unrealistic planning, with the cuts of hundreds of millions overnight, gave space to the era of calm, balance and correct and timely planning. As a result of the efforts we have all made, of course, with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance, it has been the Ministry's budget stabilising in recent years at levels of about EUR 3,150,000, so that we can plan our future actions. More intensive, however, actions were launched at the very beginning of the Ministry's financial services, in order to make the best possible use of the resources available on a case-by-case basis, with full respect for the Greek taxpayer's money. At this point I would like to tell you that we have found $460,000, 000 in deposited in the United States, which has not been anywhere from the FMS accounts, money which has not been collected for even 1 dollar of interest for twelve years. At the moment we receive 8,000,000 interest from this money from the joint projects in the United States and part of that money pays for the needs we have in our systems. Paradoxical though, in the case of specific appropriations for the equipment programmes: with one third of the 2011 budget, we managed and achieved more needs last year, as with a budget of 474,000 000 we achieved a consumption of 472 or 99,55%, at the same time in 2011 the budget appropriations for the equipment were 1.6,000,000 euros and the corresponding absorption of 360,000 000 euros. The recipe is self-evident and based on common sense for us, but foreign to the oldest party mechanisms: respect for people, the people of the Ministry, the service actors, who hurt and care about the Ministry as their home. We trusted them, gave them the initiative of moves and brought the best possible result. I have recently been watching a rhetoric from the point of view of Officerial Response, which, as a focus of arguments, has been applied from the pockets of ten citizens and the strengthening of one, with a limited impact on development. We love the reproach that we only support one of our ten fellow citizens and even the weakest, as you confess. However, given the conditions we have received, this can be started. I am sure we would like to help more of them and we will definitely do so in the coming years. We have never accepted, nor will we accept, to strengthen a fellow citizen who has a name, as you did or have covered all these years, since the standard practice was to bleed out the ten to strengthen one with a name such as Tsukatos, Tsukatos, Tsochapopoulos, Papantoniou, in the cases of the "SIEMENS" of "NOVARTIS" and the other acts of corruption of equipment, health and medicine. But by returning to the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, of which I have the honour and pleasure of leading, I would like to say that it has an increase in the earnings of around 6.5%, 138 million, compared with that of 2018, due in particular to the increase in employers' contributions - the state as an employer - for the staff covered by the current public service system until 31 December. The funds for operating expenditure have been increased by 4,15% or 20,000 000, mainly to compensate for increased fuel costs. Appropriations for armaments show an increase of 20,000,000 million or 4%, according to the forecasts of the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework. Overall, the budget of the Ministry of National Defence of 2019 is increased compared to the current year by 5,67% or by 178,000 euros with current prices. I would like to say that all of this is reflected in the feelings of the Armed Forces personnel and I could talk several hours about what this morality of the Armed Forces is. I would like to say at the same time that, with the retrospectives that have been given and covered what has been stolen from the pockets of the commissioners, we have managed to modernise military hospitals, to proceed with agreements to support all armed systems. I would like to say at this point that all this is due to the real sacrifice of the Armed Forces' officials who work 24 hours a day, never having left behind the idea that they are serving the national interest and the homeland. The Independent Greeks, however, were also responsible for the Ministry of Tourism, where Elena Kountoura, with a strategic and specific plan in four years' time, achieved an increase of over 35% incoming tourism in 2015-2018, with annual growth figures of twice the average growth. We made Greece a champion in world tourism. We have achieved a continuous record of up to nine million international visitors in absolute numbers in four years. 2018 is the best year in the history of Greek tourism, with increases of 33,000,000 along with the cruise and almost 2,000,000 additional revenues in 2017. Maria Kollia, as Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, reintroduced Macedonia and Thrace at the heart of international developments. He released funds from the investment law to the companies in northern Greece. The office passed institutional and business representatives, culminating in China last year and the United States, the host countries. It has boosted the economic development of northern Greece and with an amendment from the IMP now operates on private law criteria. The programme of recording the monuments of Mount Athos began and mainly opened the door of Greece to the Greek Pomakos who had remained in isolation for all these years. I will not talk about the PAOK stadium or about the representation of Macedonia and Thrace anymore to every ministry. Vassilis Kokalis was State Secretary for Rural Development. We managed to get the farmer's money on time, planned, without fines and charges from the European Commission. The direct payment of the related aid and effective use was established to serve targeted policies by industry and product. Relief was given to the huge problem of rural loan commitments. Settlement of debt includes 120% write-off of interest on loans, write-off of fines and government increases, pay-back in a hundred and twenty instalments and write-off of capital up to 60%. We are advocating a decision to increase infringements of authorisations for the use of pesticides, with the agreement of the companies, ensuring the proper functioning of the system and incentives for the organisation of processing in new crops. Nikos Mavraganis in the infrastructure, of course along with the Minister and in collaboration with SYRIZA colleagues, made the famous law to control the arbitraryness of companies acting illegally in the taxi area. There was a pioneering proposal to the Independent Public Revenue Authority to combat the smuggling of fuel with control, cross-checking cashiers to buy and sell fuel through modified algorithms. The serious traffic accidents were reduced by 30% through humanitarian intervention in the COK and finally entered the class of traffic in schools after the result - if I remember correctly - of the intergroup committee that had proposed it. There has been an end to the smuggling and theft of the work of carriers, a tax exemption for the owners of lost and damaged vehicles, and of course in the public transport sector we see for the first time that tickets are paid. Maria Chrysovelonis as State Secretary for the Interior is moving towards an integrated gender equality policy to deal with violence against women and after consultation, agreements have been signed with the JRC and HRC on the new way of cooperation between state structures for gender equality and the new institutionalised municipal and regional equality committees. The information campaign throughout Greece is under way, and at the same time Greece takes the lead role in the European Union in the issue of gender equality. Kostas Zouraris, as State Secretary for Education, proceeded with these regulations on Greek-speaking education abroad, with amendments and political initiatives. The Independent Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, if we had left in June 2017, 2018, would not have completed any of the above steps...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u248	You didn't tell us about Terrence...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u249	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u250	Yes, Mr. Kyriazidis, you lied to the police unions that they'll never get the retrospectives. You didn't like it. You wanted the government to fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u251	In 2017 you gave it once.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u252	Why are you interrupting, Mr. Cryazides?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u253	You deceived the cops personally, stole their money and wanted the government to fall in 2018. This is the New Democracy, that's the deception. So you wanted the government to fall in 2018 so that we did not have time to be in this budget debate today.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u254	For the special guards...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u255	Please, no interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u256	That's the truth. You didn't want this government to believe the success. Try and try with immoral tricks to unleash the offer to the place. When exactly did you submit the motion of distrust, if you remember? I'll tell you. The next time we vote in favour of the prerequisites, just a few days after the European partners approved the last multi-project, which approved the country's exit from the strict committee. When exactly did you choose to table a motion of distrust? Why did you do it? For the Prespes? Of course not. Because you did not want the government to believe this success. You have decided to move on to a political ruse, a disorientation of public opinion on the occasion of the Prespes. Tell the Greek people, are you in favour of northern Macedonia yes or no? Is Mrs Bakoyannis the initiator of the title 'North Macedonia'? We will not allow you to sow discord, insecurity and fear, as you have done in the past. You preferred to divide the Greek people and misinform him in order to change the political agenda. Who thinks that the end of the memorial era could be revoked? Nobody. The plan of economic upturn was already under way and you have not politically tolerated this development. You did not tolerate the positive decision for the place where you were not protagonists, but the others. We were the protagonists. And then it was the time when, several people willing to collide, waited in the corner, as long as the Independent Greeks were out of the way to fall off the government. You wanted us to leave before we took the fruits of our efforts. You were unable to see the successful completion of an honest cooperation for the benefit of the place taking flesh and bone. That is why you caused public opinion and overshadowed the truth and managed to a certain extent. We, the Independent Greeks, paid our battle and had losses. However, we have been patient. We've tried our strengths. We accepted that we were still strong and that economic events deserve us, because we remained at the wheel of the country, confronting with SYRIZA. We have not given anyone the opportunity to smuggle our own political sacrifices, our own struggle, in order to get the country's first Memorandum of Understanding to be drafted today and voted in favour of the country's first Memorandum of Understanding. We are therefore reaching a point where a large part of our mission has been completed, at least on the economic side. When the national issue comes, we will see who will take a national position and see who will take responsibility. We are here and the Greek people will judge us. You said that SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks would turn the place into Venezuela. I have one to say to the Greek people by closing down. If today's New Democracy assumes responsibility for the governance of the country, with the executives of the extreme right that you have gathered and with the transformation of a democratic party into a politically criminal organization, it is certain that you will not make Greece Venezuela, but you will certainly make it Colombia.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u258	No, Mr. Cryazides, please. You have made repeated holidays unnecessarily while the President was speaking. I left you, it evolved...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u259	But he referred to me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u260	No, he didn't point you at anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u261	But he mentioned himself personally and said we lied.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u262	What are you talking about? He was mentioned after you took the vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u263	But he says we're cheating. What have I deceived?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u264	Please, Mr. Cryazides. You also had a place during the conversation. Ladies and gentlemen, the following letter has been sent to me: "Mr. President, we hereby declare that the Independent MEP II of Athens Mr. Theocharis Athan. Theocharis (Italy) in accordance with Rule 16(1) and (5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, accedes and joins the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.' The letter is from Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u265	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet! All right, that's it. I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the JRC and President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u266	The debate we have been watching all these days is rather a challenge for the intelligence of all of us. What do you say both to the government and to the police of the Greek people, who are struggling to ensure even the terms of a decent living? You tell him that it is fatal for him to live as he lives today for many more years, that he must not have great demands and that he must also be satisfied, because even more painful measures could be implemented. You say, for example, that pensioners, who have already lost over 1/3 of the main and over half of the supplementary pension, have to celebrate, because after so many struggles and legal actions, their pensions will be frozen, in other words they will be reduced a little, since inflation will rise. You say to them in the face that, in order not to cut old pensions, young people must be cut off, the state subsidies paid for medicines or school meals must not be paid. In fact, you tell the people that every time he has to choose what need he will sacrifice to continue supporting the recovery of profits from business groups. Your common aim is to cultivate waiting for the people, reducing the demand, the perception that we are supposed to be on a one-way road and that nothing else can be done. This objective serves SYRIZA's call to look optimisticly at the future, because the recovery of capital gains and the so-called new productive model of extroversion has come. This objective is also served by the criticism of the New Democracy, which speaks of irresponsible government which does not effectively promote the necessary restructuring in favour of capital. We all know from our own experience that the recovery of the profits of large capital, particularly in the outward sectors, such as tourism and shipping, is based on a smash of labour rights, cut wages and the level of social security. We all know that the popular layers raise a mountain by tax, while the groups pay less than 6% of the total tax revenue. We all know who the government reforms are hitting, for which the New Democracy is in a hurry. We call on the people to turn their back on this polluting polarisation, to demand that their needs be met, to organise their own counter-attack with the JRC ahead. We say that, by choosing the notoriously less evil, we will go from evil to worse, and that seems in the forecasts of this year's budget. Mr. Tsipras tells us that the difficult ones were over, that in August the incision came to Greek society, because the memorials were over. He tells us that the new page of memorial development is for everyone, because we have long recovered our sovereignty and can create our future in a way that pleases all. A little more and he will exclaim with his friend, the American Ambassador, "Greek". You tell the Greek people that growth is coming, which is potentially philosophical, as long as you manage it, of course, and not the eminent Right, which does not have your own social sensitivities. But people now know about make news, they understand when they're making fun of him in their faces. He understands that you promise "snakes for silk ribbons" and that's why he won't leave you in a green clay. That's why you're forced to carry with you, Mr. Tsipras and gentlemen of the government, to cheer you up, and that's why you're bringing back police "blacks". The facts are stubborn and it is enough to see them calmly to reveal the size of political fraud. You say that the memorandum was a derogation from the regularity of Europe's development, Europe of justice and that it is now time to come back to it. You're trying to hide the class reality. The policy of cheap labour force is the central political direction that is being implemented throughout the European Union in a firm and timely manner, from the reforms of Schröder in Germany, which are now counting twenty years, until the reforms of your political ally Macron today in France. In all cases, the policy of competitiveness of monopolistic groups requires an attack on workers' rights only, a reduction in wages, flexible labour relations, privatisation, the dismantling of pensions and a social state, redundancies in the public, structural changes and all this is supposed to facilitate investment. Whatever side of the economic policy applied, workers are losing to gain some monopolies anywhere in the European Union. It is not true, as you say, that all over the last twenty years there has been the supreme right, which is allegedly the only one taking such measures. The same measures are brought by your friends, the Social Democrats, together with the Christian Democrats in Germany, the socialists and the centralists in France, the British workers and they go by saying. Whatever color - pink, blue, green - whatever the caller gets, measures are always there. You will ask us: 'But, well, there are no differences? There are. However, it is only differences in how the interests of domestic and foreign capital will be better served. The memorials were specializing in this class policy in Greece. That is why you are not dismantling and are not going to take away their memorials and basic laws from any of you who have participated or sought to participate in such governments. If we leave your own thick words and see the reality of your so-called memorial budget and the supposed fair growth that comes, we will see how the total of the Memorandum of Understandings that have been voted on over the past few years remains. Your memorial development is based on the broken rights shaped by the memorials. This is the harsh reality that you can no longer hide from anyone. The workers' living standards have fallen to half. The wages remain at the levels set in previous years, falling by almost 20%, while parttime work has become a norm, especially for young people and young people. You call on the workers to applaud the great surpluses you have achieved, whispering how they were created, sucking their own blood. What can we say with the launching of indirect taxes, the cuts in government expenditure, the reduction to which tax has been paid, the dramatic cuts in pensions? In other words, all the measures you have voted on together, SYRIZA, ANEL, New Democracy and PASOK, remain the fuel for the atrocious budgetary surpluses and profits of the monopolistic groups. What will change all this in the memorial period you promise us? Are the pensions going up? Will wages return to their levels before the crisis? Will taxes, VAT, oil taxes be substantially reduced? Will public health expenditure be increased? Don't be overcrowded, gentlemen of the government, and Prime Minister, who, although you're not in the Chamber, I hope you're listening. You are, after all, used to it all these years, not to be in this Chamber, except when you are talking at the end. The Greek people are not sloppy. It has begun to understand that growth is only positive for you and for your political bosses, the monopolistic groups, to which you are not constantly tiring to share new gifts. You claim to regain our national sovereignty. In any case, however, on the same bank - against the people - there is also the domestic ruling class and foreign lenders. Overseeing of the European Union is and will still be more enhanced. Financial supervision has all the Member States, especially in the context of EMU and the euro area. Recent controversies with Italy highlight the truth. But the case of our country is worse. Supervision continues to be reinforced, and as much as you are trying to hide it, you have signed that you will implement concrete measures in the next period and that is why you are also judged on them. The annex to the August agreement shows that "Manolios changed and put his clothes on." So the Memorandum with new measures, which the country is forced to implement, is here, ever present. The measures you have already signed in the third assessment, but also in general, extend far beyond 2019. You do everything you can to level the ruling class with the income and rights of the workers. You have signed for beastly primary surpluses of 3.5% of GDP over the next five years and by 2060 you have signed for surpluses that exceed 2%, at the levels provided for by the European Financial Treaty, which commits every country of the European Union and demonstrates that financial supervision is lasting and will never stop. It also proves that you did not achieve any kind of substantial debt relief despite your pompous declarations. However, the economic policy you are drawing up was and remains yours. It was and remains the policy that the groups need to shield their own profits. The memorials were all as if BSE and other employers' organizations had written them themselves. Yours Greece, Greece of capital, to survive, is stepping on Greece of the Greek people, which is sighing, in order to shield the profits of large businesses, of great economic interests. That is why no one is shouting for the supervision of the European Union. It's the convenient scapegoat. In fact the budget illuminates the escalation of anti-grassroots measures in the next period. Budget revenue is calculated by an increased EUR 500 million, even from the targets you set in the last medium-term at EUR 53.7 billion, which, of course, fall back on ordinary mortgages and the working population. You celebrate because you achieve a surplus of over 7 billion, increased even from the unprecedented targets you set in the medium term. You have even reached such a level of grief that you do not hesitate to admit that the real surplus is 3.5% and that you are simply returning around 1 billion, in the form of certain allowances, to groups of the most extreme poverty. He wants something more than courageous to talk about countermeasures, when the budget is overrun by genuinely countermeasures of new state aid to large capital, such as, for example, about EUR 1.1 billion for exemptions or reductions in excise duty on fuel and other raw materials, only, of course, for shipowners, industrialists, airlines, big-timers and large private clinics. You celebrated because you didn't proceed with the charismatic shot on old pensions. But at the same time, you froze young people for four years, leading them to a real reduction of 10%. You're trying to convince the workers that the little crumbs you give are relief and social justice. Now what can we say? Irrespectively Slowly. We've said it many times. I don't think we should say this one more time, he'll sweat your ears. It is shameful to think that what you share with the people is less than 1 billion, when the budget is 55 billion and when the surplus is 7 billion. It is shameful to talk about redistribution for the people, when only from VAT are you going to collect EUR 800 million, more than the targets you have set, of course, at the expense of the workers. And you have the courage to talk about relief when what you give, they cannot even really meet the needs of the workers, the losses of recent years. You have the nerve to talk about increasing the average salary by 1.4%. It's at least a challenge. It is at least a challenge when wages have fallen by over 20%, to show a low 80-minute increase in the day before taxes as an increase. It is a challenge when taxes are eating people's incomes, composting for such an increase. Also, it is shameful to speak of support for farmers by your Government. The same anti-grass policy is intensified towards small and medium-sized farms to ensure profitability, financing this profitability and the multiple support of a few speculators. That is why against your anti-grassroots policy, apart from the workers, the pensioners, you will also have small and medium-sized farmers and farmers. Their organized movement, which is co-ordinated in Greece by the Pan-Hellenic Bloc Committee, participates in today's rally against the 2019 budget. He takes the tractors off the streets and then follows up in the struggle for their survival and their stay in production. The words of the Prime Minister on the fight for fair financing of rural development at the European Union summit on the CAP are political fraud. All the rulings in the European Union together, whether Eurosceptics or Eurolags, agreeing or arguing, are serving competition for the profit of large capitalist enterprises and for agricultural production. The priorities of this lupus alliance have nothing to do with the priorities of a large majority of small and medium-sized farmers. No one should be drawn from the new rounds of so-called battles, struggles and negotiations of the rulers. Your budget promotes this capitalist growth, the concentration of production continuously, the profitability of industrial and banking capital. It uses financial instruments, such as the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, direct payments, the Rural Development Programme, the ESRB, with money derived from direct and indirect overtaxation, and the working class and other people's classes, farmers, tradesmen and craftsmen, and, above all, large capitalist holdings and farms and processing units and land owners, subordinated to industrial and banking capital that it wants to have more and more guarantees for lending. There are drops going to farmers mainly to the small and medium-sized farms, who are struggling only to survive. The part of Community funding for farmers and the self-employed cannot remove the effects of competition on monopolies and the burden on urban policy for the vast majority of them. It is shameful to speak of justice and social redistribution when you are baptizing each one who has an income of more than EUR 9,000 per year and is forced to put his hand in his pocket deeply. And it's a disgrace, because you know very well what wealth means, gentlemen of the government. The wealth is found in business shareholders, shipowners, industrialists, bankers. We challenge you to answer: Why do large businesses only pay 5% of the budget and the people all the rest? How much tax are your shipowners paying, how much do industrialists pay? Why did you decide that they should also be strengthened, even more, by reducing their taxation? Of course, we expect no substantial response from you, gentlemen of the government, or from the Prime Minister. Perhaps a ironic comment, like what you often do, is that they can use their money for growth, while workers will lose them if they take even 2 000 euros. Likewise, your argument is that we have returned to the normality of a growth that will be lasting and stable. The reality, however, is quite different. Domestic banks are giants with clay legs. Red loans are directly threatening the domestic banking system and the possibility of a bank collapse is before the gates. This is why you are preparing a new support package for banks with state money, while at the same time you will step up the attack on the highly indebted people's households by multiplying the seizures of people's housing. In this way, you will oblige workers to be literally undone to pay back the banks. At the same time, the signs of a new economic crisis accumulate throughout the world throughout the world. The problem of capital overcompensation has not been solved and cannot be solved in an easy or immediate way. All international organisations warn that the situation can get worse a lot and abruptly. In these circumstances, a unique solution to capital, all over the world, is the diverse increase in the degree of exploitation of the working class, either by direct reduction in wages that ensure cheaper labour, or by privatisation in education, health, social services which, of course, load new burdens again on the people's families, or by cracking down on the old middle people, as you call those who are not in a state of impoverishment - to explain - so that we can find new sources of support for the profitability of the large ones again. Throughout the world, over time, your side, at this stage of this class war that has unleashed, attacks both employees and self-employed professionals, scientists, farmers, on retired people. At the same time, all the centers of capitalism are trying to load the burdens of this crisis on each of its opponents, with all appropriate measures. But it's all incomplete after all. The contradictions between groups, states, imperialist alliances, and within them, are constantly growing. The United States government, for example, literally energizes the region and increases in instability. In our neighborhood, the geopolitical hinges of NATO and the United States expose the country to new risks much more directly than before. The ever deeper involvement of Greece as a signatory to NATO projects is directly threatening the economy of the country. You do not see or do that you do not see, that the capitalist system is moving towards a new crisis, a crisis that an economy as open as the Greek steam engine of which tourism and international transport are, has the prospect of kneeling it. The pointless path to the sky of capitalist development you promise is one more of those unbearable lies you have. Gentlemen of the Government, Mr Tsipras, at the same time, while your Government is implementing, without inconvenience, anti-grassroots policy and shaping with its own legislative initiatives an even more favourable environment for attracting investment and the action of business groups, the New Democracy appears to be your most useful opponent. The New Democracy is supposed to attack your own policy, speaking - along with all the other parties on the Euromono street in here - of a misguided mix of government policy. We recall, of course, that both she and the other parties voted and accepted your third memorandum. In fact, the New Democracy's criticism concerns the way in which the needs of capital themselves will be met more quickly and more decisively. He says in the big chapter that he is a better manager for the upcoming capitalist development, that he can implement - he says - more effectively the necessary measures. Ultimately, your confrontation is a choice between the best consortium, because the manager of the anti-popular class policy of capital, called "Government", is a real consortium for the workers. That is why you will exacerbate the controversy between you as far as we are approaching the elections, because you are both giving examinations with a difficult subject: who is the most competent manager for the interests of big capital, who can better incorporate popular discontent. Faced with the misery of your own capitalist development - with its various variations, of course - is the proposal of the JRC. Our proposal is realistic, necessary, because it meets all the current people's needs, because it takes into account the possibilities offered by science, research, technology and the great wealth of the country that exist objectively. We have a big difference with all of you, with all the parties. You subdue any economic policy to the needs of any sacrifice of capitalist profitability. The result of these positions is to use only those that can make their investments attractive, whose only criterion is not only to secure, but also to increase this profit for the few. Our criterion is the popular needs themselves, and we do not stop explaining that it is a prerequisite for society to function in this way to get rid of capitalist property, from the capitalist profit that is the source of all popular problems. It is a prerequisite that the keys of the economy really pass through the hands of the workers, the people, that the economy and production be organized with the sole aim of satisfying the great people's needs. Socio-economicisation, for example, of the rich production sources, infrastructure, production facilities, the use of the central scientific planning for the organisation of all of them, and labour, public control for the effectiveness of these, is what is timely and necessary today. These are the solid soil, which can truly liberate all the great, today, untapped productive potential. It can release the research, the technology from the iron heel of the system. Such an organisation of the economy does not, of course, fit in the bonds of imperialist lupus, such as the European Union, as NATO is. The release of our country from these bonds is a prerequisite for the development of equal relations with other countries. We call on the Greek people to fight for the forefront and to strengthen the JRC which is struggling every day to organise the counter-attack of workers. We call on the employees and the self-employed to walk racing with the Communist Party of Greece, not only to put a dam in today's anti-population policy, but also to open the way that will allow us to truly live the life that we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned Mr Kyriazidis as Mr Prussakis. I was wrong in your name. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, Mr Kammenos said that I stole the salaries of the police. You can't let me report. Another stole it and we know it. Five years you've been mocking them.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u269	In the hole of his speech. He wasn't in his speech. During the controversy this has been done. Well, if you'll excuse me, because it's my fault I've wronged you and said another name. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 8th Patras High School. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides]] The Secretary-General of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Michaloliakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have heard from the honourable Member, the President of Parliament said earlier that those who vote in favour of the budget are voting in favour of the Prespecies Agreement. This in knowledge and compliance with some who represent the Macedonians and claim to vote against the Ambassadors’ Agreement, but at the same time support the government. Two gentlemen together, no one can serve. However, this is a paradoxical policy, which we will have to experience - as it seems - for a few more months or more. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] The fact of the day was the terrorist attack on SKAI, which we condemn. And we did this with a public announcement through our website, the means we have. For his part, SKAI issued a communication, which also stated: "The state that has an obligation to encourage pluralism and to protect the security of the media and workers in them has denounced our repeated complaints of threats to SKAI". SCAI, unfortunately, has been targeted in recent years. Government officials and propaganda mechanisms have made our target station." So in the name of pluralism. What pluralism? What pluralism does SKAI think? SKAI has published this communication on the condemnation of terrorist acts. And at the same time that he even published the condemnation by the Association of Racosaclers of Koloptinism, the announcement of the Golden Dawn did not publish it. It is well known that the "boss" of the station - until at least recently - the once Bolshevik and now Nepasokkos Mallis had come out publicly and said, "I will not give a minute to the Golden Dawn." Who is he, and what does the National Broadcasting Council do? So let us not talk about pluralism. Stalinisco, tyrants are the ones who direct public opinion and have ruled out the Golden Dawn from the media, but not from the soul of the Greek people, and that is why the third political power of the country remains constant. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Of course, SKAI complains that he was targeted. And what about his targeting? There was a terrorist attack. We condemn her. What damage was caused by the attack? They broke some glasses. We have two dead from targeting SKAI! But the sensitivity of the parties to the so-called democratic or constitutional arch is, as it seems, extremely selective. In fact, beyond the two dead, we also had a body of terrorist and criminal attacks against the Golden Dawn. I'll testify for the record the photograph of a girl, a golden girl, who broke her hand with a hammer. You've never discovered the guilty men of SYRIZA. Please keep her for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] As far as pluralism is concerned, I will submit the email that I have recently sent to the state television that all Greeks - and the hundreds of thousands of Chrysayites - to ERT, for my speeches in Katerini, Thessaloniki, Serres, Drama, Kilkis, Polykastro. ERT neither sent nor dedicated a second! That's not a democracy. It's tyranny, it's Stalinism. Only the Republic for the 'democratic', then. And I say that in many introductory words. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Honourable Mrs Gerovas, the Minister for Civil Protection, as the former Ministry of Public Order, has now called it, you have rightly renamed it, because there is no public order - he said about the terrorist attack: "All necessary measures have been taken since the first moment since EL.AS. Democracy must be shielded and all those who leave corridors to pass voices of terrorism or fascism must think well." Aren't you tired of talking about fascism? Whenever they catch, comrades are communist, Marxist. And you have even reached the point and a man of your political secretariat speaking with convicts of terrorism within the Korydalu prisons. So leave the fascists. And while all this happens yesterday, Monday, we had more than a hundred violations over the northeast, central and southeastern Aegean. There have been four aerial battles. A total of fifteen Turkish aircraft carried out one hundred and seven violations. Earlier Turkish fighters made overcrowdings over the Onousses, Macronisi, the island of Anthropophagoi, south of the Ikaria Forens. And one of these ten were armed. Where are these famous alliances that you say you have built and are deterrent to Turkey? No alliance. In the face of all of this, we also had the statement of the former UNHCR of the Turkish armed forces, who launched new threats, saying that Turkey will continue to protect its rights and interests in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. He also referred to the 'Blue Home', that is, Ankara's doctrine that he will not let anyone do anything at sea without asking and agreeing. An answer to the Turks and the 'Blue Home': The Aegean is, for thousands of years, the Greek archipelago and the Greek Navy, if necessary, will give the appropriate response to the Turks, who should finally receive an official response from the Greek Parliament. If the Turkish National Assembly has passed a casus belli to extend the territorial waters to 12 miles, let Greece also vote for the Greek casus belli, that the Turks will not step on a rocky island of the Aegean. Because the Aegean was, it is, and it will remain Greek. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Recently, we had a speech by Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, in Thessaloniki, in which he said that the concentration of Greek patriots outside the area where SYRIZA fans gathered was an organized counter-concentration from the Golden Dawn and the New Democracy. No limit-free fantasies. They were Greek patriots. But I'd like to know, is SYRIZA talking about co-concentrations? On June 15, 2014, SYRIZA was co-concentrated at an event of the Golden Dawn for Alexander the Great, presently also John Haitani, MP of SYRIZA. Also, SYRIZA's anticoncentration took place on Saturday January 31st at 17.00 this afternoon in Omonia, in order to ban the concentration of Golden Dawn in honor of the three brave officers who fell in Imia. Also, SYRIZA MPs are calling for counter-concentration against Golden Dawn on November 4, 2016. Are these good concentrations? I haven't understood. When concentrations are made against the Golden Dawn, they're good. Yes, sir. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In addition to this hypocrisy, we have had significant events, which unfortunately did not involve this House, such as the Pact signed in Marrakesh, at the UN meeting on immigration. Illegal immigration I will call it myself, and I believe that this word is a peculiar one. It refers to the great Greek dictionary of Babiniotis, which he shared, "syriza comrades", "ELLEROTYPTIA" for free. Make up your mind in this way. Is this a fascist book shared by "ELETHERROTYPIA"? On the UN World Council on Migration, the Prime Minister, who represented the country, said that Greece is committed to contributing to the work of the World Pact, which is an alliance of solidarity against xenophobia and racism. It is neither xenophobia nor racism that the overwhelming majority of the Greek people want and which has been strongly and consistently supporting the Golden Dawn for many years. It is not racism and xenophobia that "Greece must belong to the Greeks". [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Indeed, it is important to say that a few days before this conference, the International Organisation for Migration, according to a statement by the President of Gianlouka Roco, stated that the twenty-six places of temporary residence, the famous hotspots that exist in Greece, should become permanent areas and that the people present in them should be absorbed by Greek society. Did anyone really ask about this? Second issue for you. At this, then, the UN International Conference on Migration, held in Marrakesh, Greece has committed itself to complying with this World Pact. However, the US Ambassador Nikki Haley said her country would not participate in the pact and that the decisions on immigration should be made by the Americans alone. Why should the decisions on immigration not be taken by the Greeks alone? But in the name of globalisation, which both nationalists and Marxists and liberals serve, this is not the case, unfortunately. But it wasn't just the United States. Reactions to the pact existed from many European countries, which are not affected by illegal immigration until Greece. Switzerland, Hungary, Poland, Austria, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Croatia said no. While not Bulgaria, which is on our northern border, said not. So, open borders for Greece and only for Greece, which will become the hot spot of the whole of Europe. In fact, the New Democracy held a controversial attitude on this issue and according to its relevant department, it stated that ‘in terms of the UN Global Migration Pact, which is being discussed in Marrakesh, New Democracy generally accepts its content, but in many respects it needs significant improvements’. You are generally accepting it. So do not the parties of the New Democracy and the various under appointment of the administrations, etc. in provinces, cafes and villages saying they will solve the problem of illegal immigration. In response to all of these in an official statement I said on Tuesday, 11 December, I said: The government's approval of the World Immigration Pact is nothing but the continuation of a nationally dangerous policy by a nationally dangerous government. The Golden Dawn, expressing this will fight for Greece to belong to the Greeks. Let me turn to the question of the budget. In detail, the rivals of the Golden Dawn, who had undertaken this work both in plenary and in committees, were mentioned. So according to the 2019 budget, we will have a total increase of 2 billion euros in public payroll costs in the period 2019 - all for your voters, civil servants - at the same time as millions of Greek unemployed, millions of Greeks working in the private sector with wages of 400, 500 or even 300 euros. Finally, let's stop this mocking. You are nothing new in politics, you of SYRIZA. You continue the policy of the party state of PASOK and of the New Democracy. Finally, he will not pay a whole nation the decoyers of the parties, who are appointed to the public, and they are definitely due to the bankruptcy of the country. The contractors will also increase from sixty-four thousand four hundred thirty-four, which was August 2014, to seventy-eight thousand thirty-nine. It is clear, therefore, that you are making a political election in order to obtain a clientele. In December 2014, as regards the posters, the positions of the retired were one thousand eight hundred eighty eighty. In August 2018, it was increased to two thousand four hundred forty-two. There is also an issue, which is not known, but which shows exactly how democratic the country we live in. Removable staff shall not be permanently employed. Do you know why? Mr. President can deny me. In order not to simulate the few post-mortem employees of the Golden Dawn. I come to the issue of taxation. Direct taxes are, as you know, considered fairer and fairer. They're about income tax. However, of the total EUR 51,127,000 of the taxes, EUR 27,559 000 - more than half of the revenue - will come from indirect taxation. Also, a stable position on the Golden Dawn every year, when the budget is being discussed, is the subscription of the mortgage to the state budget, as the German regime had already started to repay the instalments before the occupation troops were withdrawn from Greece. Recently, the Prime Minister himself said that it would be discussed when the crew arrives. Also, with regard to the budget, the total outstanding debt, old and new, amounts to EUR 101.7 billion. The taxpayers owed to the public amount to three million nine hundred and thirty - three thousand six hundred twenty - eight. One in two Greeks, that is, he owes the public. Of these, one million seven hundred forty - two thousand nine thousand three are exposed to forced collection measures. Only last June were you made by your government - which would make no seizure - six thousand seventy-three seizures. In September, at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, I had the opportunity to develop the positions of the Golden Dawn for the economic regeneration of the nation. Once again, ERT showed its hideous Stalinist face and did not show the Greek people the positions of the head of the third political power in the country for the economy. In short, I will mention them, since I am now given the opportunity. For the public debt: debt audit. Any restructuring of public debt and repayment must definitely be linked to the growth or decline rates to allow the country to be decapitated from the current recession trap. For the Lease Loan: What I said to you before: Immediate registration of the Lease Loan in the 2019 budget. For the superstition: The proposal of the Golden Dawn is a direct nationalisation of the hyperstreet and at the same time a search for any criminal, civil and political responsibility for those who co-signed it. For red loans: We have proposed that they should be state-owned and that a 'bad bank' should be set up so that the crows do not benefit and plunder the national wealth. For the economy, in general, we believe in national economic surveillance. We also believe that there should be immediate protection of Greek workers and that black work should be stopped under peculiar law. We also talked about the country's return - which unfortunately does not happen and no development exists - in national production and in the complaint of cartels on the food market. A certain number of supermarket chains have created a cartel asynchronous. It is no coincidence that we find Greek products cheaper in supermarkets in Germany and France than in Greece. Also, a key issue for the regeneration of the Greek economy is the proclamation of the Greek EEZ, in order for a national state to claim and exploit the country's national wealth. Finally, our standing position is that free is only a nation when it has the ability to have a national currency. The commitment of our country to the euro, a currency that proved bad for our national economy, has been a great mistake. In order to stop the economic decline, Greece must return to national production, exploit its mineral wealth. Then, really, free the Greek will have the opportunity to be a householder at his place. In addition to the budgetary issues, at the heart of the political life, both on the part of the New Democracy and on the part of SYRIZA, it is Golden Dawn, whether Golden Dawn cooperates with New Democracy, as SYRIZA says or whether Golden Dawn works with SYRIZA, as the New Democracy says. In fact, the main author of the newspaper "The NEWs", Mr. Pretenderis, - where he became a New Democracy, to support it - wrote yesterday: "Why did the Prime Minister just take his friends and eighteen degrees of MATs to go to a city that is clearly deported, to give a ten-and-a-half-empty court against Michaeliakos?" The New Democracy after a long time and seeing an entire people react, remembered, with some delay, of course, that the Embassy Agreement is, perhaps, a betrayal and instructed the MPs and its members to attack the SYRIZA, but not to raise the issue of name, only of nationality and language. In fact, Mr Mitsotakis himself from the step of the New Democracy Conference said: "The New Democracy will not ratify the Prespecies Agreement, neither now nor in the next Parliament nor ever". He could say something much simpler and clearer, that he would cancel the Prespecies Agreement. And he didn't say that. On the other hand, it has left it open if it is voted on by this House, to accept it. The Golden Dawn on this is against and stable in its line: no compromise for our Macedonia! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] They will say, of course, that it cannot be done, that if a bilateral agreement has been made, it cannot cancel it. And yet there is an example very well known. We had agreed with Albania EEZ on Berisha’s day and the next government came and abolished this agreement. In a similar way, therefore, if you want to be okay with this, the New Democracy should commit itself to canceling the Ambassadors' agreement and not saying that it will not ratify it. That's an escape. Also, in the Golden Dawn many prominent New Democracy attacked. Among them was Mr. Dendias, who said he hates Golden Dawn. I shall reply to him with one phrase from an ancient text: 'Exemplary Clazmen'. This was done at the conference of the New Democracy in Athens. In Thessaloniki, at the gathering by SYRIZA, again at the forefront was the Golden Dawn. And the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, said: "Thessalonica today gives an answer to the darkness, hatred, nationalism and patriocadia. Thessaloniki, Macedonia, Greece will not come back. We will not allow the crooks of politics that plundered our country and threw it on the cliffs of bankruptcy to dress today with chlamys and thoughts and represent the ultra-patriotic hand - a hand with the neonazis of the Golden Dawn. We will no longer allow the heirs, the political offspring and the sponsors of SIEMENS and NOVARTIS to represent the ultrapatriots and to call the Left the democratic party of the great struggles, as traitors and brokers. First of all, about NOVARTIS and SIEMENS, we hear a lot from you, but we do not see anything. Go ahead. We don't see anything happening. And if it happens, we, Golden Dawn, what do we have to do with all this? Did we rule? Did we go bankrupt the country? And if some of you went bankrupt, don't you look beside you at the PASOK executives you have inside your party and the people of Simitis, who are protagonists? Since Mr Tsipras, who also comes from the JRC, was mistaken by referring to betrayals, let me mention two - three things from history, the one you have destroyed, not you of the SYRIZA in recent years, but the status of Transition, from 1974 until today. The witness Metropolitan Izmir Chrysostomos who shocked Hellenism, according to "RIZOSOPASTI" of November 26, 1929, was a "actor of the Greek bourgeoisie". Also, the "RIZOPASITIS" on December 14, 1924, at the 3rd Conference of the KKE, had as main slogans: "Helves Bulgaria's working-rural revolution", "Helves independent Macedonia and Thrace". Are you talking about betrayals? Immediately, the JRC denounces the government that the violent settlement of Macedonia eliminates the Macedonian people. What was Macedonia's violent settlement? They were refugees from Asia Minor, Ionia, from Pontto, who filled Greece with Macedonia and Thrace, and that was bad. November 1931, Zachariadis: "The party must fight for the right of free self-determination of the nations, reaching even a separation against national oppression and persecution of the Macedonians and the Turks." [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] As many recent references have been made to Varnalis and to his patriotism, let us see what the well-known scholar of the 1930s says, of national thoughts, and therefore forgotten, George Theotokas: "Costas Varnalis, formerly the official poet of Greek communism, is shown at official tables in the Bulgarian embassy, while the Bulgarian government declares that it is war on the side of the Axis and that the Bulgarians are slaughtering thirty thousand Greeks in Macedonia. And we come, speaking of treason, to the decision of the CSCE Senate on January 30 to 31, 1949, at the conference to which they accused Paul Mela, the greatest hero of the 20th century, as a comedy who indulged the noose of the Macedonian people and which proclaimed: "As a result of the victory of the Democratic Army of Greece" - the one you celebrated some of the anniversarys of the SYRIZA, which was allegedly respected by the New Democracy - "and the popular revolution, the Macedonian people will find its full restoration. The two peoples, Greek and Macedonian, are fighting together for their freedom". So don't talk about betrayals by those who come from communism, because on the subject of Macedonia you're soaked up to the neck of treason. You have been talking for decades about independent Macedonia and Thrace. And it's not too late. If you want, renounce these positions. Say they're treacherous. The New Democracy accuses us of cooperating with SYRIZA and SYRIZA that we are working with the New Democracy. There has also been such a matter recently with an interview in Kilkis, where I said that if in the future the New Democracy needs our votes and commits that, firstly, it will denounce the Ambassadors' agreement with Skopje, and secondly, that it will deport illegal immigrants according to the Golden Dawn law, then we, in fact, will not say no to any part of power. We had said so to SYRIZA too, if the memorandum were to be abolished, but you never abolished it. I do not want to bore this House, saying what I said in my speech then, in 2015, but you should know that the fairy tales that you could not do anything, that Diaselblum recently dissolved them in his statement, which said that if Greece came out of the euro, it would create a mess. Tusk said the same thing. In essence you served the banks' plans. You saved the banks. You saved the euro and not Greece and you, like the PASOK and the New Democracy. Finally, I have to say this, many States of the New Democracy use the term 'local Right'. You have nothing to do with the term 'laika'. You are the ones who signed the memorandum and led to the poorening of millions of Greeks. And you cannot be right when in your party you accept citizens like Mr Tatsopoulos, Mr Theocharis and many others. You're not a folk, you're not a right folk. And if there's a folk right today, it's Golden Dawn!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-one students and students and three teachers from the High School of Thassos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call at Step the President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Phofi Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the serious climate from the terrorist attack on SKAI and KATHMERINI, a blow to democracy. These ten pounds of explosives force us all to see things differently. Because it is not enough to condemn blind violence. We have a duty to deal with it decisively and to end its indirect and involuntary supply. The perpetrators must be found and brought to justice. The government must finally send out a clear message that it does not tolerate violence, whatever violence and an end to the splittling sermons, because these sermons throw water on the mill of those who handle democracy itself. It needs to be awakened by all of us. The reports that democracy is not intimidated, that it is shielded, are not enough, ladies and gentlemen. I remind you the last time I heard the Minister of Government, Karamanlis, saying our economy is armored, we are faced with the crisis. Well, with democracy, we're not playing! I will not get tired of saying it and repeat it again from the Step of the House. We're not going anywhere with this toxic and poisoned climate. The country needs an understanding of the political forces to shield democracy. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] When I talk about understanding, I obviously don't mean we all have to be the same. However, political differences and other charges for traitors, for donors, for germans, for crooks, or for reunion. Because that's just not a political controversy. This is the conversion of political life into mud arena. So we want national unity. We want the Greeks together. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to be reluctant myself and our parliamentary group on this issue. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I say this because it very simply needs to put an end to the extreme polarization that SYRIZA and New Democracy are cultivating for small-scale benefits. Built chicken fights do not rally, do not concern the world, do not respond to its agony. It's away from everyday life and problems. And on the contrary, they're having another effect. They are pushing people away from politics even more. We want to change the conditions for the country's course. We are making a new account of the country and its prospects, this perspective which does not open from the last budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. You have not succeeded, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in bringing the country out of the open, because real exit from the crisis requires three things: firstly, exiting markets, secondly, development and production of surpluses from development and, thirdly, social justice and dealing with inequalities. The budget you are proposing today merely reflects the commitments you have made, commitments which are an informal fourth memorandum and does not guarantee any of the conditions I have mentioned. Interest rates are forbidden, growth is anemic and surpluses continue to arise from overtaxation. Social policy is being exhausted to temporary allowances. You are the government of "ten - one". Ten you take and one you give and you want to tell us this is a very great feat that you give this one. Well, we will continue to talk and will speak here today about the nine that you receive from the Greek people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] They are about people, families, professionals, workers, unemployed people, who are kneeling, impoverished, targeting them every day. It is the nest you have worn on the neck of the Greek people and you have the courage to tell us that you have made the Memorandum past. With your budget in 2019, exterior taxation is increasing. In fact, how does it grow? From indirect taxes that affect just the weakest. It will increase by EUR 582 million. Listen. For each EUR 1 in direct taxes, it corresponds to 1.5 in indirect taxes. Behind this evolution there are enormous inequalities that literally oppress the middle class and automatically devour the various benefits you give. The social costs of the budget for actions to combat unemployment and the sickness benefits of the EEAS are reduced by EUR 470 million. Those insured with an additional contribution to medicines EUR 262 million and pensioners with EUR 760 million each year through the health contribution to supplementary pensions. What do we have as a result? A monthly pension is cut from each pensioner. Pensioners are also invited to pay EUR 279 million. It takes back the government's cuts in old pensions - which, not to be forgotten, itself recommended and voted - but goes on to say no more than reductions in new pensions and, of course, in widow's pensions. The ESS's cut is completed. Three hundred and ninety thousand poor pensioners lose this social benefit. The subsidy of hospitals and insurance funds is reduced by EUR 366 million, at the same time as the health system collapses, which hospitals cannot obtain medicines for cancer patients, who are made redundant by three thousand doctors in total from the MEDIAs and the hospitals, and, of course, when the TWYs are brought to a tragic failure. Heavy is the legacy of their politics and national issues, but also of interventions in justice. But today I shall confine myself to the effects on the economy. EUR 200 billion was lost for the Greek economy with the negative consequences of the tactical persecution policy Tsipras - Varoufakis in 2015. The public debt has increased by 17.5 billion euros. We have lost from the national income of 58 billion from returning to recession and anaemic growth. We have unbearable primary surpluses that condemn us to austerity, delinquency of banks, and a loss of 20 billion from the last recapitalisation for insurance funds, public funds and shareholders, a mortgage on public property for ninety-nine years. Since the first moment the lenders stepped in our country, they have demanded bank delinquency and public property as a guarantee of debt repayment. They didn't get it from any government in the past few years. Mr. Tsipras gave them everything. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We have granted a fast track of about ten thousand state real estate in the superstate. Hospitals, public buildings, museums, monuments, everything has been given. Loss of considerable resources from our non-integration into the European Central Bank's quantitative relaxation programme. The Greeks owe the tax office 100 billion, and one and a half million of them are seized in their accounts. Professionals and farmers are already suffering the consequences of increasing tax rates and linking contributions to income. The countryside is being abandoned and devastated, and farmers are protesting, because they realise that the promises toward them were polluted. Employees in the private sector are undergoing continuous wage cuts. One out of three works in elastic forms and wages less than 400 euros. The salaries of civil servants remain in charge. Heavy, ladies and gentlemen, are the consequences of the acts and omissions of SYRIZA - ANEL. So say again that it was fair and it was done. In the end, can anyone ask, yet are conditions created for development at the place, as Mr Tsipras claims? Indicatively 'no'. The investment interest for Greece is very low, as shown on the Stock Exchange. Investments are not made. On the other hand, they retreated by 7.9 in the first half of 2018. The SYRIZA Government - ANEL for four years has been unable to start any major private investment in the country. But it managed to lead the country's largest public company, PPC, to the brink of bankruptcy. The deposits have been reduced by EUR 30 billion since the end of 2014. The banking system cannot finance the economy, as it is swept away from red loans. It is impossible for the State to obtain revenue from the real use of Greek public property. Local government funds are being reduced. They lose EUR 762 million and, at the same time, become hostages and the central authority, as well as the local interests of 'KLITHENH', they are unable to play their development role. The Public Investment Programme is reduced by 550 million. Absorption in the ESRB is still low. Ministries undermine large foreign investments, and literally dismantle the vertebral column of the economy, i.e. small and medium-sized Greek enterprises. Of course, in order to combat the smuggling of fuel and cigarettes and the widespread arrest of tax evasion from all kinds of lists, your results are nonexistent. We are used to your lies, but it goes very much, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to try now to be wise to the geopolitical initiatives of the PASOK Governments. It is our policy of strategic cooperation with Israel. The financing of the East Med natural gas pipeline, Alexandroupolis' liquefied natural gas plant. You were across the street and are now trying to show that all of this is your achievements? It is our strategy to become Greece an energy hub of the Balkans and not yours. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Finally, young people, young scientists, i.e. human resources, which could lead the development effort and give development breath, flees the country and seeks better conditions of life abroad. So there is no design, no growth accelerator. On the other hand, there are only cuts and at an extremely difficult and critical international and European juncture. Unfortunately for the Greeks, this is Mr. Tsipras' new story. As the memorials were torn apart and finally put the country in the third and harder memorial, so now it announces growth, which, through its own policies, chokes out of the crib. As soon as something goes to breathe in this place, they come with taxes, come with the inability of the party army that plunges the state and drowns it in its birth. Mr. Tsipras' development and policies are the shortest, bitter joke, which, it seems, only applauds the party nomenclura of SYRIZA in its own interests, as is revealed daily. But that's not how we go forward. The sacrifices of the Greek people are used as an election tool. This pre-election recipe, of course, has been known for years: promises of recruitment, impulse with temporary benefits, scandalology, polarization and division. A classic recipe, which the conservative party had been following for decades ago. Now Mr. Tsipras applies them faithfully. Mr Tsipras and his Government have consistent standards in the conservative party. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Older than old. The country cannot proceed with the commitments made by Mr Tsipras. The policy of SYRIZANEL is a ticket for new deadlocks, and the budget confirms that. That is why we are saying 'no' today in the 2019 budget, the last budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Ladies and gentlemen, a solution for the country is certainly not the return of the right. New Democracy is taking advantage of this whole situation to return to power. But do you really believe in this place that this party and these executives, who have not renounced the 2004-2009 catastrophic policy, can lead the country out of the crisis? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And much more, when Mr Mitsotakis, in hug with the person known for his 'positive' attitude to our country, declared that he would faithfully honour the commitments made by Mr Tsipras and his government, when he clearly states that he will cut back on social costs when he does not submit any comprehensive development plan, but only to promise the few and strong ones, when the announcements lack the social dimension and respect for labour rights when he follows and imitates Mr Tsipras's recent policies instead of an integrated social protection policy. Mr. Mitsotakis, in the name of the new and liberal, has boarded the right-wing train. However, the future of Greece is not a development for a few, with the market uncomfortable and impoverished workers, nor is the arrogance that seems to be diffuse from now alone with the prospect of power. He dances the tango of polarization with Mr. Tsipras and they do not care if the style and the spirit of this confrontation objectively strengthens the most extreme and reactionary forces of the country. They do not care if the next day of the elections is not at all different from today. They do not care about the consequences of bisecting policy. Behind all these superficial fights, after all, they look very much like them. We've been watching all these days before our eyes the great lookout. SYRIZA and New Democracy are desperately seeking MPs to ensure a 'yes' or 'no' to the Ambassadors' agreement. However, since 2010, ladies and gentlemen, the country has been responsible for SYRIZA and New Democracy, who have chosen polarization and division, paid three memos. Eight years later, they continue exactly the same minds. With the "go", however, "to come, to become Prime Minister, and it doesn't matter to be you against the squares and to stone the national effort" we lead to a new deadlock that will be paid by the place with a fourth regular memorandum this time, and that is the great dilemma of the elections that are coming. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It requires a political overthrow: a progressive change with national priorities, with inspiration, knowledge and a plan, and this is the legacy of our party. We will achieve this with the decisive reinforcement of the Change Movement. For the fate of Greece cannot be the misery of Mr. Tsipras or the jump to the void, north on the markets and the immunity that Mr. Mitsotakis proposes. It is not worth this future to Greek citizens. So to end both populism and maintenance, to end with dead ends. The country needs a new governance that unites and does not divide. That's why we're ringing the wake-up bell so that the Greek people can get the situation in their hands. That is why we demand a clear mandate for political overthrow and progressive changes in this place. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] For us, progressive policy is not just words. These are specific policies with content. We have therefore tabled our proposal, the Greek plan, an integrated proposal for development with social justice. And we haven't stayed on this. We have specified specific provisions and tabled a proposal for a law both on development and on social cohesion. In this direction, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for us should first of all incorporate a change in the objectives for extinctional primary surpluses and create a real financial space for development and social cohesion. Support policies that lead to the development shock that the place needs, the production of new wealth with specific incentives to support investment, entrepreneurship and especially Greek medium-sized and small enterprises. Support for farmers and special incentives to support the activity of young people. I do not say all that in general. It is included in the proposal for a law tabled by our group and reflected in concrete measures on how this can be done. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Therefore, the budget should create regions with a development identity, a development that is fair and visible to the many, not to the elites of the multinationals and best friends of the respective authority. Mark a state revolution, brave decentralisation, changes in public administration, ensure resources for quality and universal services in health and education, ensure policies on social justice, support for weak, disabled and socially excluded. However, policies, ladies and gentlemen, which create a modern social state and not charity benefits, of course, guaranteeing the first residence of small and medium-sized borrowers from the auctions. It should reflect the radical change of the Katrugalo law, the restoration of the social acquis in industrial relations, the improvement of the level of life of Greek citizens. To restore the role of the UFO as a fund for the recovery of public property, not to divest public property, so as to secure resources for the social-security system and especially for the new generation. Can this deadlock of Tsipras - Mitsotakis, New Democracy - SYRIZA guarantee the new course that the country needs? Indicatively 'no'. The SYRIZA - ANEL government has been judged definitively in the consciousness of the citizens and has failed. Now that the masks have fallen and historical truth gives a real dimension to faces and orders, there is no room for other delusional and other apprentice magicians and saviors. Greece and the Greeks are looking for a radically different, really progressive and effective policy. This is the historic role of the democratic party. We want, we know, and we can, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We think differently. We are radically different, really progressive. We are social democrats, and that is why we are working both on democracy and on social cohesion. We want an end to the backwards. We are working on growth, employment and solidarity. We are fighting and claiming transparency and accountability in public life and in public economic and social budgets fair and genuinely development. We are appalling and expressing the social demand for dignity. This is the flag today: for the Greek people to take back their lost dignity and our country to be lost credibility. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] That means he needs a change. It needs a roll-over. So we are with Greece that produces and creates. We are with Greece hoping, which is optimistic, which is bright. We are, and we work for the many, not the few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Juliarakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget debate is a good opportunity for a brief account of the country's budgetary policy in the three years 2015-2018. And so I would like to begin my speech today. In 2015, the government was called upon to manage the country's public finances in a highly unfavourable economic environment, unprecedented - I would say - for a developed European country after the end of World War II. Firstly, the economy remained in a deep recession and GDP had already fallen by 25%. Secondly, the country remained excluded from international markets without the possibility of financing interest and debt financing, despite the two adjustment programmes. Thirdly, there was no tools for economic stabilisation, there was no financial space and it did not have an independent monetary and exchange rate policy. Fourthly, it was faced with a vulnerable banking system. Fifthly, there were partners seeking and preparing the conditions for leaving the country from the common currency. It is good to learn lessons from the experience of the recent past and not to forget that this country's misplaced position was a result of the poor management of the public finances of previous years and especially of the years preceding the 2008-2009 crisis, when the twin budget deficits on the one hand and the external balance on the other had exceeded 15%, thus leading to the total loss of the country's credibility and exclusion from the markets. In view of the acute dilemmas that this situation poses, the government has chosen, in my opinion, the only appropriate but difficult strategy: the strategy of restoring budgetary credibility, the strategy of persuasive international markets that the country can restore budgetary balance in a sustainable and sustainable way, how it can respect its commitments and be consistent with the objectives it has undertaken, in short, that the country has overcome definitively bad habits of the past, such as the systematic production of deficits, even when the economy is developing. The restoration of credibility was a difficult option for a necessary three-year fiscal adjustment with an increase in taxes which we did not want, and a reduction in targeted expenditure on the one hand, but, along with a generous restructuring of the public debt in such a way that the country's gross financial needs remain below 15% in the medium term, which we achieved last June. So what has this mixed fiscal adjustment strategy achieved on the one hand and debt restructuring on the other? First, the extreme risks that troubled the country from 2010 to 2015 were nullified. I am referring, of course, to the danger of leaving the country from the common currency. Secondly, the economic uncertainty has been significantly reduced and the negative expectations of recent years have been reversed, as is shown by all the climate indicators of economic confidence. Thirdly, the country came out of the excessive deficit procedure in 2017, one year before the expected one. Fourthly, the economy began to recover for seven consecutive quarters at a mild pace at the beginning, at an accelerated rate of 2.1%, 2.2% and with the expectation of higher rates in 2019. Fifthly, unemployment decreased by seven percentage points from January 2015 to September 2018, creating three hundred and fifteen thousand new jobs. Finally, the yields of the ten-year reference bonds have considerably deviated. At this point I would like to make a reference to the claim that today's interest rates keep the country out of the market. There is no doubt that we too would like interest rates to be even lower, as there is no doubt that it would be significantly lower if there were no vibration in the international markets caused by Italian risk. After all, on 1 August 2018, the 10-year reference rate was at 3.8%. But are today's borrowing rates forbidden? Do they keep the country out of the market? It is worth seeing here the cost of lending the years of prosperity 2002-2008. The average of the 10-year borrowing rate between 2002 and 2008 was 4.36%. The average of the ten-year borrowing rate in the first eleven months of 2018 was 4,18%, lower, or in any case equivalent to the loan rate 2002-2008 when the borrowing rate was not even a problem, was not even a news story. Of course, for us, it is not just the restoration of the country's lost credibility, however important. As important a pillar of the 2015-2018 fiscal strategy was the protection, as far as possible, of the most vulnerable parts of the Greek population, throughout the adaptation period. It is worth comparing the social protection index of the 2015 budget, which we did not draw up, with that of the 2019 budget. I will only refer to five contagious permanent well-targeted interventions that were not in place at that time and are now there. Social income of solidarity, budgeted for 2019 at 850 million. It did not exist in 2015. Family allowances for families with one and two children by 360 million. From 650 million in 2015 to 1 billion in 2019. Residence allowance of 400 million in 2019. It did not exist in 2015. Coverage of our uninsured fellow citizens from the National Health System, both for exams and for hospitality. It's costing about 150 million. Reinforcement of the 'Help at Home' programme. Overall, new institutions, new well-targeted interventions of EUR 1.8 billion or 1% of GDP in crisis situations, in conditions of budgetary suffocation that heal social injuries and reduce inequalities. In short, the strategy was a restoration of credibility to stabilise the misguided economy and stabilise the economy to protect the weak and reduce inequalities. The 2019 budget is precisely the fruit of this successful adjustment, as well as the economic recovery that we are experiencing now. I will say very few things, because it has already been discussed exhaustively. It is first of all just one step, only the first step of change in the budget policy mix, with the aim of the next four years and by 2022 the mixture being much more friendly to both businesses and households. Secondly, it incorporates an extension of 0.5% of GDP for the first time since 2008, in a balanced way between lowering taxes and increasing costs. I saw that the Civic Opposition distributed at its recent conference a list of economic measures - I imagine the backbone of its economic programme - and I had the opportunity to study it carefully. I even made a careful assessment of the cost of this list. I have to say she's quite generous. It's not an excuse, because SYRIZA only does it! It includes the following: First, it includes measures that we have already legislated and implemented, but it also includes many others. It includes a 30% reduction in HPAI over two years, which has already been announced by SYRIZA, the Government and which has already been voted on at a cost of 666 million euros. It includes a 29% reduction in business tax - listen to this! - 20% in two years, directly, at a cost of 640 million, in two years at a cost of approximately EUR 1 billion. Reduction of dividends tax rate from 15% to 5%, which is also part of the budget. Introduction of a 9% tax rate for incomes up to EUR 10,000 for salaries, pensions, businesses and farmers. Are you aware of the costs that it entails? Only EUR 2,7 billion is involved. In addition, a EUR 1,000 tax for each child, costing 317 million. Increase in the CRL budget from 760 million to 1 billion. It's already 850 million. Restoring allowances for third parties and multiples, costing 200 million. Increase the budget for unemployment benefits by EUR 200 million. Total cost in 2020, in the first year, EUR 4.7 billion, total cost of EUR 5.8 billion. There's more. It doesn't stop here. VAT reduction with 22% and 11% from 24% and 13% respectively, costing 733 million euros. Gradually abolishing the trade fee, costing EUR 323 million. Gradually abolishing the special solidarity levy, costing EUR 1.2 billion. Reduction of main pension insurance contributions from 20% to 15% gradually within four years, costing 1,6 million euros. In four years' time, by 2023, the measures announced by the Civic Opposition cost EUR 9.7 billion. I have two comments to make and a proposal and I would like the New Democracy to hear them. Firstly, in a country that has suffered a profound long-term recession, due to irresponsible policies of the past, it is good when it comes to tabling such a large package of measures, to substantiate convincingly how it will finance it. Of course it is not convincing to say that he will finance this package - listen! - by reducing tax evasion, at a higher rate of growth, by reducing budgetary objectives, by extending electronic transactions, by strengthening PPP and by reducing State expenditure. I would ask the citizens who are listening to us, when they are promised such measures, to ask one thing. Where will they be financed? And I'm going a little further. In view of the 2019 parliamentary elections, the Greek Parliament, Mr President, - I address the Bureau of Parliament - should properly equip the Budget Office of the State of Parliament to cost, first and foremost, the financial programmes of all the parties. It is an initiative that leads to much better information for citizens, leads to transparency, better quality of dialogue and ultimately to a much better quality of democracy. It is done in other countries and I propose that the Bureau should consider it as a measure in our country as well. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Deputy Minister's speaking time hits a warning bell.]] I would like your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President. For me a EUR 5.3 billion package immediately - let us leave the four-year period - means one of the following three things. Or the New Democracy is not honest and makes fun of the world - I do not believe that it is true - or intends to reduce dramatically social spending, wages and pensions - to remind you that 20% of the budget is wages and 40% are pensions, I do not exclude it, but I do not exclude it - or what I consider most likely, believes that aggressive tax reductions - look at this because it is interesting - are self-financed. In other words, it believes that the tax reduction of 5.3 billion is capable of leading to such a great stimulus in growth that the revenue generated outweighs the loss of revenue generated by the tax reduction. So we don't have to deal with the budget. All we have to do is reduce taxation. I must say that it would not be worth dealing with this point of view, if it were not particularly dangerous, especially for a country which has been afflicted as much as Greece, dangerous for a new financial derailment and for new adventures. It is no coincidence that no centre-right European party is distinguished by this kind of fiscal opportunism. The only party that ignores the consequences of an aggressive budget tax reduction is the American republican party, which is three times, in the 1980s, the 2000s, and now follows this policy to leave behind fiscal ruins that the democratic party has been called upon to assemble. For our country, however, financial ruins mean a new programme and that is what makes me worry. The lines of confrontation between the two economic programmes in the upcoming elections are therefore apparent. On the one hand, in an increasingly unfavourable economic environment, the European economy is slowing down, trading conditions are changing, American monetary policy is getting tighter - it is important - and this is our commitment - to maintain credibility and budgetary balance by sharing fruits of growth in a fair manner and by reducing inequalities. On the other hand, aggressive tax reduction, without an assessment of the budgetary implications, with short-term political benefit, but a medium-term heavy price for the country. We will move on the same path and in the years to come, debt enemies, respecting the sacrifices, fruitfulness and tolerance of the Greek people, with steps that are stable, not to break down the valuable credibility capital that has been built and knowing that stability is necessary for a purpose: in order to enable the country to maintain a high growth rate, to increase the income available, to distribute, to reduce unemployment, to strengthen the social state. This is our reserve, and that is why I invite you to support the 2019 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u275	Thank you. I call on Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Head of the New Democracy and President of the Parliamentary Group in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I have always listened very carefully to the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, but, as I watched him, I was thinking: Mr. Juliarakis, weren't you the Minister in the first half of 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u278	You weren't. I was wrong. So you renounce it.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u279	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u280	It's okay. He was Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras - that doesn't change things - he has the main responsibility. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, presenting today - Mr Juliarakis, listen to me - a SYRIZA official and defending responsibility and discipline and budgetary seriousness, when it was your government that blew up the country in the first half of 2015 and the results of policy we are paying them today, is at least oxime. I now come to the debate today, which, ladies and gentlemen, like every year, is a leading moment in economic and political life. We are voting against the budget. We are voting against not only his individual predictions, but through it all, your Government, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are voting against the government of falsehood, deception, arrogance and cynicism. We are voting against the government that made the lives of the Greeks worse and especially the weaker. We are voting against the government of taxes, heavy and long-term austerity. We are voting against the government of unacceptable national retreats. We are voting against the Government of Scandinavian and Interlocutory. [[Noise - laughers in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] We are voting against SYRIZA and ANEL for what they represent, populism, demagogy, politics without principles. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are voting against your party appointings, your arrogance, your inability, party politics and not country. And we are not only voting against you, but also against the overwhelming majority of the Greeks. And in the elections that are coming, the cycle of the worst government of post-population will be permanently closed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's the last budget you bring to this House. You know it yourself. That's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u281	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u282	I see great turbulence in your parliamentary group, very worrying. So what will be heard today will be very important, but I have to begin with my position from time to time. Yesterday's terrorist attack on "SKAI" and "KATHMERINI" is another result of the strategy of tension that you have been following for many years since you were in opposition, a strategy that is contrary to the perceptions and needs of society, but also to the majority of the citizens who have voted for you. Part of this strategy is the systematic targeting of the media. You do it consistently, almost all of you. Aim with style and lasting fully foreign to democratic dialogue papers and stations, publishers and journalists, in a way that has never been the case in the years of post-multi-population. You have denounced persons and headlines, you have made judicial decisions, you have disclosed up to evidence anywhere you have had journalists whose writings you do not like. You know that terrorism can be organized in some yachts conspiring against democracy, but it is born in the words of extremist division and the preaching of hatred. Terrorism is nourished in a society that, unfortunately - part of it, at least - has gained a sense of tolerance to violence. And that's why you're personally responsible, Mr. Tsipras. I do not need to speak here again about the immunity and lawlessness regime that has been formed in the country, with your tolerance and very often with your encouragement, about the Ruviks and the trumpets at the universities. For, gentlemen, I have warned you for some time now: Occupations and fists are becoming very easy bats and molotovs to turn them into kalashnikovs and bombs. When, then... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You'll listen to me with care! You'll listen to me with care! You've had enough of us in this country!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u283	Be quiet, please! Don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u284	So when the origins of violence are justified, it is painfully collected and its evolution. When extremists are characterized as fighters or just children, then their actions get an alibi. When official lips target faces and perceptions, the work of the hooded ones becomes easier. When cases grow, when arrests grow, then lawlessness grows. For my part, I have only one thing to say: the more open our democracy is in different ways, the more ruthless it will be with those who will want to feast it with violence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Those who fantasize about armed struggles, revolutions against democracy and institutions should know very simply that for our day they will be brought to justice. It's over and out. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to your last budget. It is not only the mirror of your failure, but it is also an opportunity to hear some truths, because your last budget, Mr Tsipras, is also your balance sheet. It is the account of the longest-lived Prime Minister. Normally, the cycle of crisis should have been closed four years ago, if you, Mr Tsipras, along with Mr Kammenos, did not cause elections with the partnership of Mr Kuveli and the Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I see you in the cabinet, Mr. Kuveli. No good is lost in this country. You blocked the country's exit from the second program. You have blown up the efforts of the Greek people with an unnecessarily third memorandum, trapped the country in a new austerity cycle, harming it with 100 billion euros. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Yeah, I was expecting your reaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u285	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u286	And because you're claiming that we're only talking about this, I'm going to make the statements from Mr. Reggling and Mr. Visser on the Minutes. They said you hurt us 100 billion. You're questioning them, too, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u287	Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u288	So I say it very simply. Mr. Tsipras, if you hadn't come to power, the crisis would have been over for four years. The country has paid too much for your political fraud, which you have now baptised 'him'. In 2014, the country had already had positive growth rates, it has already produced surpluses. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr President, I would really ask you to do your job.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u289	What am I supposed to do? I keep saying quiet, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u290	Rescind them in class.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u291	What are you talking about, Mr. Ausgeakis? I keep rescinding in class. Alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u292	I see you a little relaxed. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u293	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u294	As you said, we've been in a pre-election period. You took over your role too. It's okay. We'll take that too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All the reports at that time, Mr Tsipras, predicted growth rates exceeding 3%. In two and a half years the New Democracy Government took a recession of 0.9% and took it to 0.7% growth. We had a change in order of almost 10% of GDP. What did you do right in four years, Mr. Tsipras? From 0.7% you went to 1.5%. That's your accomplishment. I shall submit the relevant table for the minutes. And because I listen to you all the time, and you and your MPs, smack all over the period after 2010 - to speak on behalf of the New Democracy - about what Mrs Katseli, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Mrs. You guys took them to your party. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So what else happened in 2014? A series of major investments had been launched. I would remind you of the concession of the fourteen regional airports which, of course, you fought a rabies, so that you could then accept it as your own policy. The tax was reduced, Mr. Tsipras, in 2014 and the repayments of public debt went ahead. Of course, the debt then, Mr Tsipras, in accordance with the International Monetary Fund report - which I shall be tabling on the Minutes - was considered sustainable. It was sustainable. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't tell me. I need you to tell the IMF.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u295	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u296	The same IMF, which then judged the debt dramatically unsustainable. Because what did he get through? The disastrous first half with Mr Varoufakis, Mr Tsipras and all the group that led the country to the edge of the cliff and which you now want to forget. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Then, yes, Mr. Tsipras, the country was shielded with a credit line and since March 2015 it has been available for Greece for quantitative relaxation, the well-known QE, the QE that at that time was not very interested in you. Last year you set it as a big target, you had it as an alternative, and now what happened, Mr Tsipras? You just lost it. I have here nine different statements in important speeches, which you announced, Mr Tsipras, that we will be entering the programme of quantitative relaxation. Not one, not two, not three, but nine times you announced it. I'll testify for the Minutes. EUR 2.6 trillion - I repeat EUR 2.6 trillion - other European countries from the quantitative relaxation programme. And Greece, which needed it most, what did it take, Mr. Tsipras? Not even 1 euro. And instead of the European guarantees, you preferred the pockets of the Greeks. You have ungratefully taxed them and dismantled the middle class, this middle class that keeps the Greek society together. The cycle of your decline closes, but the Greeks will remember you for five words: First word'systage'. You consciously deceived the citizens from the abolition of the memorandum with a law and an article, until the repeal of HISPIA and then the parallel programme of September 2015. And today you still lie. Second word 'poverty'. You have made the poorer than the reduction of the minimum pensions, until the end of the CSCE and the creation of a new generation of uninsured work, of the EUR 360 generation. Third word 'taxes'. You have given citizens the advantage of overtaxation, particularly in the middle class, by increasing all direct taxes, reducing tax rates, tax on indirect taxes, from fuel to coffee. 'Fear' fourth word. You insecurity filled the daily lives of the citizens from the neighborhoods to the universities. And a fifth word, which bothers you very much, "scandals", from the photographic competitions in Triasios to the buy-out scandal in Skopje from PPC, and from the 700 million that you left at the table for the extension of the "VENIZELOS" contract to the DEPA, which we will have the opportunity to discuss in detail on Friday. Truly first, then, four precious years have been lost. Greece was not only unable to find the way of the rest of Europe, but it was sinked down. In 2015 the country reached the edge of the cliff. She was divided into a parody referendum and lost her banks. You spoke, Mr Tsipras, last time we met in this Chamber, about the banks. I have here the capitalisation of the Greek banks in 2014, totaling about EUR 38 billion. It was 38 billion euros, Mr. Tsipras. Today the capitalisation of the Greek banks is EUR 4.3 billion. I'll testify to her for the Minutes. The valuation of the participation of the Financial Stability Fund in Greek banks, the property of all Greek taxpayers, on 31-12-2014 was 11.6 billion. Today is 1.7 billion. These are your achievements, Mr Tsipras, yours and your policy. I shall submit the relevant valuation for the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In 2015, the country experiences a ruthless bombardment of cuts and taxes that crush households and dissolve businesses and endures a development and investment winter. We're in the middle of development. How do you explain, then, that the competitiveness of our economy has fallen short of ten positions in the last four years? The third Memorandum, which you have produced and signed, has indeed exhausted its formal period of time - it has ended - to a great deal of relief for the partners, because the European funding of our country has also ended, which is now being called on to cover its needs by lending from international markets. What remained, however, is enhanced supervision - quarterly, no other European country has it - and, unfortunately, the unbearable commitments to primary surpluses, 3.5% to 2022 and 2.2% to 2060. This is the informal fourth memorandum we are talking about. And, of course, we have retained the current taxes and additional measures, of which, Mr Tsipras, you did not vote against, such as the abolition of the CSCE - the CSCE will be completely abolished in 2019, which takes away valuable help from pensioners - and the increase of 15% in the contributions of the free traders, since they will also be taxed as income. And, of course, all this, with an official pledge of the entire Greek public property for ninety years, until 2115. It is an unprecedented and insulting process, not only the wealth of the country, but its own dignity, its own pride. We welcome 2019, not like Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland, but as a vulnerable economy, without international confidence. The country cannot now borrow from the markets. The 10-year-old bond spread is in the four hundred twenty base points and international interest rates, unfortunately, take up again. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means we lost the three best years of the international economy. We lost them trapped in an ideological policy, which, on the one hand, looked to collect the ruins of the first half of 2015 and, on the other hand, insisted on taxing the real economy rampantly. If we had simply followed Portugal's course, our GDP today would have been at EUR 217 billion. Instead, it is planned to close to 186 billion. My assessment is that it will be even lower than that. Only this graph, ladies and gentlemen, which I will testify for the Minutes, is the most tangible proof of your tragic failure. Unfortunately, we have entered a completely different path of GDP growth and this makes our debt unsustainable, this makes our insurance system unsustainable. And that's why you're all responsible, Mr. Tsipras. No explanation I have yet heard in this Chamber because Greece has had the lowest growth rate in the past three years. The only explanation that has to do with your own political choices, what happened in the first half of 2015 and what you followed. They pay it every day when Greek citizens spend a lot of time. True second: we welcome the new year with a society that, after twenty-nine - I repeat, twenty-nine! - tax increases, seventeen interventions which reduce pensions and reduce real wages by 3.5% in 2017, remain incarcerated today in austerity, with a government incapable - despite the "concept" shown by creditors - to be able to implement real and substantial reforms. For I recall that substantial reforms, such as the capital controls, the treatment of red loans, the e-justice, the state's dues, the privatisations, have all been referred back for February 2019. That is why the profits of Greek bonds have not yet been released for our benefit. Real reforms, you didn't do, Mr. Tsipras. Unfortunately, the productive model of the economy has not changed. It did not become the country more extroverted, more competitive. We are around the same structure as the Greek economy we had in 2015, except that we are much - much poorer. And I have just heard Mr Tsakalotos speaking outside Greece, telling us that excessive surpluses are not a great strategy. Yes, sir. I agree. But if the two of us agree, then you must first disagree with your own policy. You committed yourself to these high primary surpluses and your policy serves them. You collect money from taxes, you leave the Greeks with public debts, which you do not pay back. Really, Mr. Juliacaki, were you not the one who committed you here in March 2018, that by summer all outstanding public debts would have been repaid? Today it is even higher than where it was in March 2018. The state owes 3 billion to private individuals, thousands of new pensioners are still waiting for their cumbersome pension. And, of course, this left government, what does it do? It's freezing the Public Investment Program. Here it is very interesting that in your development strategy for the future, Mr Chakalote, you are characterising the Public Investment Programme as the main financial instrument for the national development strategy. I imagine you agree with what you're writing. You won't disagree, will you? So let's see where the Public Investment Program is on your own days. At the lowest height in the last seven years. All you do, to build, it's supposed to be a safety pillow, which, however, inflates with air that denies the lungs of the real economy. And what is the final result of this statement, Mr. Tsipras? You have taken measures of almost 11 billion, of which you are actually returning one as an election tip to the citizens you have first impoverished. Truth 3: Heavy surpluses are savouring the economy together with average income. I wonder how you feel and how the financial staff feel when he hears the OECD declare SYRIZA a champion in the tax burden, because that is exactly what surpluses mean: taxes, taxes, taxes. And, of course, here, we are not just talking about surpluses. We are talking about a government that celebrates because it goes beyond its already high objectives. Last year, the target was 1.75%. You went to 4,13% and celebrated. Do you know what that means? That you force Greeks to pay EUR 4.2 billion more than they needed to achieve the goals you have set yourself. What's the result? We have reached the point today that the Greeks' total tax debts have exceeded 103-I repeat, 103! - billions of euros, half of the population being in debt, not being able to pay, and many cannot even regulate their debts. Household deposits are today the great blood donor to the state budget. Because the statements, Mr Tsipras, of the Greek citizens in November 2014 were 136 billion and are currently at 108 billion. Everyone sees their wallet being quickly empty since then, as well as indirect taxes are sniffing prices into daily products and services. The Prime Minister often plays the philosopher. Mr Tsakalotos has spoken openly - in his honor, because he defends this view - of class division. You're telling us you're here to help the weakest. It is, though, isn't it? According to the International Labour Office, wage cuts in Greece are the largest in Europe, but also the largest in the country since 2013. In 2017 one out of four workers - I repeat, one out of four - had a pay of up to EUR 500, while the partial decline in unemployment is based primarily on part-time or periodic employment. Seven out of ten unemployed are long-term unemployed, and with the rate of unemployment in your day, we will reach the pre-crisis levels in 2030. At the same time, 19% of the citizens pay 90% of the income tax, 4.5% of the businesses pay 83% of the legal person tax and 33% of the owners pay 66% of the Property Tax. I wonder if that's tax justice! In Greece of SYRIZA, however, some do not favor others. Everyone is wrong today by your policy, because according to Eurostat one living in three Greeks in poverty, three out of ten Greeks have difficulty in paying the current, four out of ten have difficulty in paying private contributions to their medicines. This is the so-called SYRIZA of the people. He taxes him in the most unfair way and eventually makes the poor, the poorer. Indeed, fourthly, for the past four years the government's economic policy has been targeting the middle-class, without any interest in the real increase in public wealth for the benefit of many and with apathy towards its lasting decline, it shares where and where some sporadic benefits to citizens who have previously dulled offspring. On the other hand, however, nothing prevents you from swelling the state with non-productive positions to help your party customers. All may be narrowed by taxes and debts, but SYRIZA insists on increasing the cost of bureaucracy. Mr Tsipras, in the four years you are running, you have increased the cost of payroll to the Greek State by EUR 2 billion - I repeat, by EUR 2 billion! - and for the first time, the number of civil servants - and regular staff, but especially temporary staff, fixed-term staff - is increasing again - especially the second category - in a very fast manner. I am not alone in the considerable financial burden. Because Mr Juliarakis told us: 'Where are we going to get the money?' Only two billion has cost public wages, Mr. Juliaraki. But it is not just the financial footprint. So re-birth the sins of an old-fashioned state. Life itself has passed them. Resuspended a dishonest message to the young children, that their future may be an opportunity for public employment, so that a political patron can come back to promise them permanentization. Our children of the past have now become our own companions. Ladies and gentlemen, these four tangible truths, which I have presented with concrete elements, which are not in dispute, are condensed in the fifth budget for this year's year's year's year's year's year's budget, because the painful consequences of the third memorandum, development devotion, tax raid, the anti-social nature of your policy are reflected in the pages of this budget. This budget is not credible and it is certainly not developmental. You hope for a 2.5% growth when the whole of the European Union, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund, see growth significantly lower. After all, last year all government forecasts in relation to development fell out, as did the previous one. No one - I repeat, nobody! - of the four budgets you've implemented, you haven't caught the development goals. Four of the four failures in the most important indicator regarding the progress of the Greek economy. This budget serves the unbearable surpluses with which SYRIZA exchanged its unreliability and inadequacy. Because that is why, Mr Tsipras, you have been committed to the surpluses of 3.5%. It was the price that the country and the Greek economy had to pay for your personal unreliability. It is the account that Greek citizens pay for what you did in the first half of 2015, which you stubbornly want to forget, to come here to tell us that you are ruling just a hundred days when you are the longest-lived Memorandum Prime Minister, the one who signed the third Memorandum and pledged the country to an informal fourth. This budget, Mr Tsipras, remains an adversary to the citizen. It maintains the twenty-nine taxes and the tens of SYRIZA cuts. It shoots the middle class, puts obstacles to investors, but it eliminates the weaker ones. It makes the poorer and constantly multiplying them, thus crushing the trunk of real society. It is therefore a budget that has the same characteristics as all the previous ones. Tax bleeding, social tissue pressure and, of course, complete reformism. Reproductions the vicious circle of stagnation. This is your genuine child, and this is your last budget. Anti-developmental, inefficient and unfair. Faithworthy to the objectives of the fourth memorandum, he also serves the exquisite surpluses, with which the government has already committed itself. This, then, Mr Tsipras, is the way that is being proposed and the 2019 budget, a path between taxes, fears and lies, which leads to the dissolution of the middle class and decay of the country, a plan cut and sewn in the small boot of SYRIZA, which unfortunately cannot raise the high expectations of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, thankfully for the country this budget will soon be a past, along with those who recommend it and with the approval of the people of another programme will take its place. A programme that will bring back hope and optimism. A roadmap realistic and documented that will give the economy power and perspective to the citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u297	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u298	Because our concept of the economy serves total prosperity. And from this total prosperity, all citizens will benefit. Our aim is to describe the simple twofold: fewer taxes and contributions, more investment and new, good jobs. Our aim is to stimulate creative entrepreneurship, strengthen the middle class and genuine support for the weak. Because, you know, Mr Tsipras, whatever benefits you share, the most effective social policy remains the creation of jobs, stable good jobs, which need investment, investments which your own policy insists on pushing away from the country. And, yes, Mr Tsipras, the focus of our policy lies also in returning to reasonably annual surpluses so that we can have a financial space to increase production and competitiveness, but also have real social cohesion provisions. And I wonder, Mr Tsipras: Since you yourself, with your Minister, do you recognize that excessive surpluses are not the right policy, do you agree with the objective of declining the primary surpluses?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u299	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u300	Because we believe that a new government, with reformed credibility, can and must demand that objective. And the New Democracy Government will be able to claim this objective... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ... because it has credibility in Europe, as well as the re-guarantees that are needed to prove to the most suspicious that what we say, we believe and we mean them. New Democracy will be invited in the next few months to bridge old and new breaches in Greek society during the years of the crisis. It is called upon to close the injuries of the division left behind by this government. I say this because growth and prosperity are not coming with a society divided. You talk, Mr Tsipras, often about this so-called breach between the elite and the people. Others are the real breaches today in Greek society. They are among those who respond to their debts and those who sink into debts. It is among those who consider themselves to be beaten by globalisation and those who see globalisation as a fear. They are among those who live in dynamic areas of the country and those who live in declining corners of our country. Unfortunately, the latter are more than the first. There is a real breach today between older people and young people, unfortunately at the expense of young people. There is a breach between those who are familiar with technology and those who fear it. And finally, there is a great breach between those who have a stable job and those who live with the nightmare of parttime work, which is often insecure. These are the real breaches we need to talk about. These are the breaches that we need to bridge. And we must prove, the great liberal social centre-right, that fragile growth and social cohesion can go hand in hand. Because the reconstruction of the middle class, but also the support of the Greek family, are to me an unnegotiable priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u301	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, our party's twelfth conference was completed yesterday. It was an open, democratic conference, a conference that had a look at the future. Let me briefly focus on our most important proposals, which concern... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Did you say something? If you're tired, you can come by.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u303	Please don't suggest. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u304	You suggest that, not to me. Come out if you don't want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, I am the President-in-Office of the Council. You are not chairing me and you are speaking with me. I've told you before. Through the President-in-Office you speak. That's what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u306	I do not accept any suggestions, Mr President. Do your job well.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u307	You'll take suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u308	Stop acting as president of SYRIZA. That's enough! That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u309	You'll take suggestions. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u310	You won't raise me the tone of your voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u311	Leave that tone!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u312	Do your job, or go down and go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u313	What do you say, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u314	Well, that's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Mitsotakis, this authoritarianism elsewhere, not the President of Parliament. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u316	Down the tone of your voice now!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u317	Understand? Arrogance and arrogantness elsewhere. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u318	Now, put that tone of your voice down. Get down if you can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u319	I don't understand now, artificial tension do you? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u320	That's enough. The meeting was fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u321	Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u322	Because you can't impose order or you don't want to impose order. That's why! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why do you systematically share against the New Democracy? Because you're a party president. That's exactly why!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Mitsotakis, you're wrong and you can't behave like this. I have told you several times that you are asking for the floor by the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u324	Why are you screaming?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u325	To every colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u326	Why are you screaming?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u327	I'm not screaming. I'm telling you right that every...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u328	Drop the tone of your voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u329	When a colleague speaks, please, we impose order. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u330	When Mr SYRIZA's colleagues systematically fail to speak, I will force her to order, since you cannot impose her.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u331	Not at all. You are not in a school class or in the New Democracy conference. You're very welcome. You don't want to force the class in here. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u332	That's right, we're in Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u333	That's right. Everyone in his role.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u334	...with a president who has been renounced for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Mitsotakis, everyone's role. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u336	And we are in an election period, Mr. President, aren't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u337	You're four years in an election period. Please. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u338	We are therefore putting a coherent programme to relaunch the economy. Indeed, Mr Juliarakis, this is two different worlds. You're the one who imposes a duty. We recommend a bold relaunch. We believe in the power of private initiative as the driving lever of wealth production. Yes, we want to reduce taxes and contributions. You want to keep them high, to maintain a party state and to appoint relatives and friends. That's our big difference. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, Mr Tsipras, since today is an opportunity to explain, it would be hypocritical at this last meeting of the year to speak only about numbers, when the national problem of scoppianos is changing, when we mourn the hundredth victim of the tragedy in Matti, with no responsibility yet given, when the media bombs and lawlessness everywhere give the measure of daily insecurity, and of course when public life is still poisoned with new lies, election rumors and dark scandals. Greece is poor, small, and she's afraid. I therefore expect you, Mr Tsipras, to speak here not only about the economy, but also about other big issues that concern citizens, to talk about developments in national fronts. You climbed to Thessaloniki, at a confessed, not very successful gathering... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] ...to insult the Macedonians in their homes... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...to say right-wing and nationalistic whoever disagrees with your agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u339	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u340	No, Mr. Comrade. That's what 80% of Greek society says! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You interpreted the story as you wish. You even spoke about the Civil War, sowing the national division again. For Macedonian identity and Macedonian language, you did not say a single word, nor of course for the burns of your partner who is now fighting with Mr Kotzias, accusing each other with heavy accusations. It is Mr Kotzias himself - look out - who is now calling for a secret ballot vote. What happened? Are you afraid of something? Don't you suddenly want to assume your responsibilities, Mr. Tsipras? A secret vote will not be taken. It will then be heard, Mr Tsipras, the 'yes' which you will say where everyone else said 'no'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But I expect you, Mr Tsipras, to also speak about Albania, about the unacceptable welfare of the Greek minority's properties from the Albanian state. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You threatened me, Mr Tsipras, that you would report to me in Brussels because I said that you were exchanging the inappropriate non-budget of pensions with an unacceptable national retreat in scorpion. Of course, you didn't say any of this. But you did not say anything in Brussels or in your friend Mr Rama. If you do not say so, then I will say it and I will send a clear message from here to Tirana: if Albania does not respect the rights of the Greek national minority, it can forget its European ambitions. So let's see, Mr. Tsipras, if at least that's what we can agree on. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] I wonder, of course, whether you will today choose to speak of your infamous moral advantage, which has drowned - and drowned - in an orchestra of scandals. And I wonder, therefore, how our well-meaning fellow citizens who have voted for you in the name of the alleged moral advantage, now that they see you sinking into arrogance, money and corruption of power.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u341	Quiet, please. Be quiet. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u342	I am addressing all of them today. But I also address all the Greeks who are tired and disappointed looking for a better tomorrow for them and their children. Our goal is not only victory in the next elections, but the implementation of a structured plan for the regeneration of our country, for a new era of prosperity for many, for a new creative course for Greece. But trust is essential if this is to be done. In order for there to be confidence, however, we must speak in the language of truth, restore credibility to politics, restore realistic hope to the citizens. Not fake words that lead to frustration and failures. No more lies. No more false promises that then will be paid by taxes and cuts by society. Let me close with a positive picture, ladies and gentlemen. In my office, I have a black-and-white picture of the philhellene photographer Bob McKab. It's this nice picture, which depicts three girls in Upper Peristeri in Epirus in 1961. Now it's called a long pigeon, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Tasoula. They don't wear shoes. Their clothes are balled. They're walking on a dirt road. Behind them, there's something smiling behind them. But they have a shiny smile and a glimpse of sparks. They symbolize Greece that didn't put it down. They symbolize Greece that takes courageous care of the future. They remind us that as a country we have fallen many times and have risen again, that the generation of our fathers and grandparents, our mothers and grandparents came out of the hell of a war and civilisation and worked hard and left us a much better Greece than the one they received. And yes, these three little girls in their way and their smile send us a message of optimism: Unified we can best and deserve better, to make a better life for all and especially for our children, for all the children of the Greek people. We're looking forward, because we're going to go to Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u343	Thank you very much. The speech was fifty-four minutes. It was a mistake. You're aware of it. I'm just writing it out for the Minutes. It doesn't play a part. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two teachers attending the Delphi High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak today about accounts. I know that my comrade Sia Anagnostopoulou doesn't like the word for reasons we haven't found a long time to discuss. For me, though, people have been telling stories since the beginning of history. They were civilians. They were workers. They were painters. Everyone was telling stories about where they come from, where they are and where they want to go. And I want to tell our own account of where we come from, where we are and where we want to go and compare it to other accounts. I'm starting with something Nikos Karathanasopoulos said in his introduction. He said that it is one of the absurds of capitalism that despite technological developments and the terrible increase in wealth, capitalism cannot give our own children better wages, better pensions, better rights than our fathers and moms. He put this issue on the table. In my opinion, this is not an important issue that he raised. This is the issue we have to deal with. That's the big deal. Do you want to understand why the Dutch Labour Party has had the worst performance since '45? Do you want to understand why the Swedish Social Democratic Party has had the worst performance since 1908? Do you want to understand why the CDU along with the CSU in Germany have had the worst result since '49? Do you want to understand why the SPD in recent elections has had the worst result since '33? Do you want to understand why the French Republican Party has had the worst performance since it was born? Do you want to understand why the French Socialist Party fell to 6.3%? Because there are no answers to these questions. We must invent how we can promise, however bad things are, that it will be better for our children than for pensions, rights and wages. In the committee we have started a debate with Mr Scandalidis on how and why there was this great inequality, not for your days with our memoranda and our own years, but in 2008. I want to give a first approach, because it is obviously a very long debate. The promise of globalisation, what was it that they believed and centre-left and centre-right? "Don't be afraid of many. You may be afraid if you are working in the steel industry in Britain or in the textile industry in Greece, but the middle classes have nothing to fear." And that's what didn't prove it. From globalisation they have lost, not only the working class, not just those who have always been on the sidelines and are, but the middle classes too. The middle classes are beaten everywhere and in all countries, whether they are in America or in Europe. There are two responses from the Left to this, either a partial retreat to the nation - state, supported by many serious scientists, such as Danny Rodrik from Harvard who has written about it, that he needs a partial retreat, or a political deepening of globalisation with democracy and democratic control, one of the two. And because in Europe social democrats from Costa and Sanchez and Moscovisi are approaching us, why are they approaching us? They're approaching us because they have the same concern. They've realised that a Blair account, a Shirt or a Clinton doesn't work, and he can't take us forward. Of course, not everyone in Greece. Some people I'm sure they share it. Some have told us that Moscovisi is coming or Sanchez and Costa is approaching, because they are right-wing social democrats, while they are left-wing social democrats. Can I tell you something? To believe that Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Loverdos are left-wing social democrats, I am more prepared to believe that Mr. Vorides and Mr. Georgiadis are basically inspired by Martin Luther King and Mahatma Gandhi. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I repeat the debate on what Mr Karathanasopoulos said. Mr. Karathanasopoulos told us his own account. He said we need socialisation of the means of production and of the people's power. I'm obviously simplifying. And he said that this is not a difficult thing, it's realistic because it's in favour of the interests of the people's classes and all it takes, if I'm not falsifying, is the popular decision to put the bourgeoisie in the time of history. I wish things were so easy, because unfortunately what we learned is that it is not just the right line. You can't just know what you want to do. You need to know how to make the public more democratic and accountable. You need to know and learn how to restructure public enterprises, be effective as well as social. You need to learn how to finance and support the public sector. That is not only the will of this House. And I'm telling you, have a different account from us, but these problems and other things I could call, you'll find them in front of you with any strategy. What SYRIZA does is learn from what he's done right and from what he's done wrong. What is the New Democracy account? That we destroyed the middle classes, that we poored society and all that, while the road was in 2014. I'm starting with medium mattresses. I take, for example, a family with two children located in the middle, has 50% more rich families than it and 50% less rich. What income did they have in 2009? They had 23,926 euros. What did they have in 2014? They had 15,040 euros. We had a 37% reduction and a 8,886 euro reduction. If this isn't a middle class enough, I get a family of two children who have 25% richer families and 75% poorer families. What income did he have in 2009? He had an income of 34,000. What was in 2014? He had 21,720 euros. We had a 36% reduction and 12,280 euros. What did we do from 2014 to 2016? In one case it increased 160 in the other 146. It's a very small increase, but they had 36% and 38%. Can you tell me who destroyed the middle class when we talk about 37% and 36% and tell us that we destroyed the middle class? When we stabilised her and raised her very little? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are now going to the impoverishment of the Greek society. 21% of households with three or more children in 2011 were at risk of poverty. In 2014 you had gone to 30%. We reached it at 24%. Children's poverty has fallen by 2.1% over the past two years. The material deprivation in 2010 was at 28.4%, in 2014 it reached 39.9% and we have reduced it to 3.5%, and we have reduced the Gini index, which is about inequalities. We are now going to the future, not what we have done in the past, and in the budget. I have the data, without taking into account that we will have growth in 2019 and 2020, what is the result of the non-reduction of pensions and the 910 million programme that we are discussing in the budget. For the poorest 10% of the population, the increase will be 7.6% in income, available income, i.e. income after taxes. For the next 10%, we'll have an increase of 3.3%. For next 10%, we'll have a 2.2% increase and go by saying. Where's the restraining budget for the populace, where did you tell us? Increase in income has the popular layers. Could we do more? Perhaps we could, but there's an increase and it's not election. It's these 910 million we have that we can spend. I have asked Mr Stavoura and others to tell me whether 910 million is very little or very much the same. I didn't get an answer. As Mr. Juliarakis did not receive an answer from Mr. Mitsotakis. What did Mr. Mitsotakis say about the question he asked him? That: "You too have done the same." That's what he said. He didn't tell him if he was 9 billion in four years, if he's 5 billion and where he's coming from. I didn't get an answer to that. I would like to return to the speech by Mr Scandalidis, who told us that the budget is undevelopmental, that it has no development breath and others have said so from New Democracy. You'll see why I'm talking about Mr. Scandalides, because I want to see if we can talk. The first thing we have to say, which you are telling us about the Public Investment Programme, is that we have a lot of tools. Of course, it is a key tool for the Public Investment Programme. But, as Christoforos Papadopoulos said yesterday, we also have many other tools, such as the European Investment Bank, the ESRB, etc. We also have the banks, which have heard you hit again from everywhere, the banks that have been recapitalised, reaching their goals, returning the deposits, going forward, which, in the extension of the airport contract, loaned 660 million. When there are good ideas - because it is not the fault of Greece, only that there is no funding - and good projects, they will be able to invest. That is why we have worked very hard both with our development plan and with the European Investment Bank, so that we can change that. However, development is also the land register and forest maps and the hayalus and the investment tool framework that has completely changed over the past two years. Why didn't you do these for the last forty-five years, not to say eighty years, so that a foreign investor could know where the cavalry is, know where the forest is, know where a chemical business is? New Democracy tells us again and again that we have an allergy to investment. I, because I'm a good man, will accept that you have no allergy to investment, but you have a little appeal and a little addiction to these investments that you can mediate through the client system. That's what we say you have it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But what is the main issue? I was very worried by Mr Mitsotakis and very much - I am sorry to say that - Mr Theodorakis. Have we learned anything from the question Carathanasopoulos put? Are we going to say growth, growth, growth? Will we find a balance between targeted social policies and development, or will we say again from the outset that the pie will be increased first and then growth will come? Thodoris told you very well yesterday. For us development without school meals, no primary care, no work rights, no housing allowances, no society together. This was seen before 2008. Those who thought that growth would come first and then help society were disproved, either centre-right or centre-left. Now I'm going to a question Martin Luther King posed, not to you, Mr. Voridis, this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Vorides will be asking for the floor on personal grounds because he was with Gandhi and now he's taken him to Martin Luther King.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u346	I don't think so. If anything, Mr. Voridis has a sense of humor that doesn't characterize the right wing. I have to tell him that. Now everyone else will ask for the floor on staff! What did Martin Luther King say? The point is, not what you've earned, but what you can keep. And after Martin Luther King died in 1968, you know how important and how important this matter was for America. Can we keep it? We got out of the program. You didn't get out of the program. Your Chief, Mr. Mitsotakis, who is not here, told us about the International Monetary Fund. I'll return to his argument. Here I have for the Minutes what the International Monetary Fund says: "After June 2014, the Greek program came off course, irretrievably off stack." The IMF itself is saying it. [[At this point, the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Diaselblum in an interview with Paul Chima says: "No reform in the second half of 2014. If he had, he would have gone out." And we came to power without a program, no cover, a month to fix things. And we let you, if you come - which is not going to happen, we do not have such a purpose - both with a pillow and with a debt regulation. You said the debt was sustainable. He said Mr. Mitsotakis that the IMF said the debt was viable. The IMF said so. Why? Because, as Mr Stakoras said, in a proposal unimportant: 'We had agreed on growth rates'. First of all, I would like to say, Mr Stakoura, that growth rates are not agreed. It's not a pound of oil that makes five euros. You work to make growth rates. You don't agree to growth rate. The second, what you agreed was exactly what was needed to get nothing for the debt. That's what you agreed on. You had the growth rates on the one hand, the primary surpluses greater than those negotiated with us and nothing needed for the debt. And no one believed you. And you're telling us about 4.2? Mr. Juliarakis answered, so I'm not spending any more time on it. It was nine before summer. One word I want to say about the 80, 100, 200 billion SYRIZA's cost. Mr. Georgiadis asked me - I think he left now - why I don't tell Reglin that. My trend is if someone comes and tells me it's Montgomery of Alameen, not to discuss Alameen's strategy. My tendency is to bring him, because I'm a good man, to have a cup of coffee, to invite Christo Manda, who's an expert, to discuss why he thinks he's Montgomery of Alameen. That's my tendency. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But Mr. Petsas gave us the explanation why he was 100 billion. I have here his article in which he says 100 billion. I'll give it to you in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It says where the debt would be in 2022, according to the 2014 forecasts, and where the debt would be in 2022 with the 2015 forecasts and makes this difference and makes it 100 billion. In other words, the difference between the two forecasts is 100 billion. The first is that I could do this exercise by starting with any year, with 2018, with 2019 and would put similar numbers. I don't want to do that. I want to tell you the main argument. The main argument is that when we say that you reduced the income of 25%, from EUR 249 billion to EUR 185 billion, these 64 billion are real figures. The 64 billion cannot be questioned. They are numbers, what was in 2009, what was in 2014 and the difference. Yours is an arbitrary figure for forecasts on one hand, forecasts on the other. One remains in the economic theory, the other does not stand, and that is why I have not answered either Reglin or Stournara or anyone else who has these opinions, because it is not serious to compare predictions. You didn't say anything about the debt. Nor am I going to say a lot about the debt, because we've told them about the elongations we've taken and about the pillow we got. I mean, something different you haven't taken. Over the past year, something has become very important. A large part of our debt has gone from floating interest rates to constant interest rates. That part's too big. This means, since all the economists provide for an increase in interest rates, that for every 1% increase in interest rates our country earns for social costs, for what we want, 500 million. I mean, with 2% it's going to be 1 billion. You remember last year that I thanked Stelios Papadopoulos as head of the DPRK for the work he had done. I want to thank Dimitris Tsakonas, who is a civil servant and this year he took from "Risk.net" the award of the best public debt manager. This man has given us 500 million for every 1%. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you know what else? Mr. Papadopoulos was the choice of Mr. Samaras. Mr. Chaconas is a civil servant. We don't choose party, civil servant, we chose. What you're saying doesn't work at all. We trust people who can help us. For the chairs you say, you will have the opportunity for February, March, when you vote with us there will be limitations on how many times Members can become MPs, and you will also show that you are not with chairs. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Juliarakis told you so too. In the end, all this for the debt is this: we have given any next government, which we believe will be us, ten to fifteen years, clean corridor to get the country serious and to do serious things out of the memorandum. Ten to fifteen years. For two years the debt has been completely covered, all the funding. And you're telling us we left you burnt earth? Such disgrace we haven't seen since King Lear kicked out Cordelia's daughter, who loved him, and kicked out Goneril and Regan who were a pussy. That's a real disgrace! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Colleagues and colleagues, arriving at the end, I want to tell you how the account ends. It's not a bad story to stop the others. Although I do not want to leave it to liberals, who cannot vote for citizenship, for children who were born and lived here and refused to vote, so that they could be Greeks. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Nor do I want you to leave the country to those who say they are liberal and along with the European People's Party are talking about austerity everywhere and I have been swollen to every Eurogroup about how important it is, and these are the people who have not been able to reach a budget target in the last 50 years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Nor do I want you to leave the country to those who say it is with globalisation, free markets, the trade of traders, and when the issue of Macedonia arrives, they become nationalists and they know they cannot go without nationalism. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] People who believed in the markets did not come out because there was inequality, and now we are told "it's not the neoliberal model, it's the strangers, it's the blacks, it's the immigrants". I want to say one last thing, if the President will allow me. You know many and many that I was twenty-eight years in Britain. I loved this country. But I see a country being destroyed by nationalism with Brexit. I see a country in which the level of the debate has come down and I would never have expected it. I see a country where there is hatred. I see a country which has nothing to do with what it was like and all because some nationalists have said that 'we are better than others and we have to leave the European Union'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Never let this happen in Greece. When nationalism starts, at best it's a disaster. At best! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to conclude with a personal note. Mr Mitsotakis also said that we are the longest-lived Memorandum Government and so I am the longest minister of finance. I'm having a hard time, but it doesn't bother me that I'm the longest minister of finance for the memorial. I would be disturbed if along with Juliarakis, along with Alexiadis and Papanatsiou, together with the entire negotiating team, Ahtsioglou, Haritsis, Liakos and some people you don't know like Dimitris Papayannakou, who must say that he is the hero of this negotiation, we didn't always have the interests of the people's heads on the front. If that's always what we didn't fight. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would be disturbed if we decided from the first few months that politics could not give a solution and we were looking for a technocrat to prove that politics and politicians can't do it. That would really bother me. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would be disturbed if, after two years, I asked Alexis to give me a "sirudza" job, such as - random example - Governor of the Bank of Greece. That would bother me. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It would have bothered me if we had not all come out - and you and the ANEL Members - all together, the country from the Memorandum. But we got the country out of the memorandum and we're going to do something about it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is difficult to explain how difficult it is to be in a negotiation and to know that your future is not played, but the future of an entire society. It's hard to tell you how hard it was when we made compromises, like in the summer of 2017 with the pensions. It's hard to tell you how much work it took for us to be able to reverse this. It's all hard. But you know what? The people won't play us for it. The people forget and look forward. And that's why it's important to tell how we can go from now on. Because, with all the things that the Greek people have been through, it is right that the efforts of the past should not be taken of interest, but that of the future. I've explained our own account. Now it is an obligation for all of us, who believe that we can gradually, with setbacks, with mistakes, but with the aim of advancing the key question posed by history. Not tomorrow, not once in the future, when conditions and connections have improved, not whenever things are better, but now before and after the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Mr Chakaloto. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-three students and students and four educational sessions of Corfu High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the President-in-Office the floor with whom this debate will be closed and we shall be voting for the vote, I should like to say that, thankfully, with great comfort in the process, without the speaking time being reduced, the procedure lasted fifty-four hours, there were two hundred and fifty-five Members - who have never been - of whom the two hundred forty-eight are colleagues and the seventeen extra-parliamentarians from the ministers. I hope that we will close before twelve o'clock, quite sooner, with the contribution of all the wings in this Chamber. Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a day suitable for comparisons, but also for substantial dialogue on economic issues. But let me start with one comment. I can't leave it in business. I have been here since 2009 - close to ten years - watching the House from a child. I'm really insane. I have never seen a similar attitude, not a Chief of Staff, but a political leader, to address with this iotism and authoritarian style to elected MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u349	The congressman's attitude to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u350	Please, Mr. Karaoglu, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u351	Named Mr. Karaoglu, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u352	Don't interrupt, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Mitsotakis, don't interrupt. Calm down! You're nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u354	You've got nerves!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u355	I'm very calm. You've got a lot of nerves lately. It makes sense. But you will hear my comment. It's a behavior I'm wondering if it's because you're nervous, because you've done it before, you've ordered an elected MP to go out and you're addressing the President of the Parliament in this way and you're moving your finger or it's a part of your character, behave as a spoiled college boy, who thinks that the Greek Parliament is a stubborn as your father inherited you! But it's not! This is the temple of democracy! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] In your life some things may have been easy to find, but this poetry and vindication are dangerous to people who claim authority. And alas if they ever get greater power than the one they think they have! I come now not on the matter of the budget immediately, because unfortunately once again in his speech Mr Mitsotakis followed the same slippery path, which he first started in the debate last week in the House, where we saw him come here and blame his political opponents as national brokers. We saw him get to the bottom of the scourge and blame the Prime Minister of the country for selling Macedonia to the European partners in order to get the pension cut. In short, I made a transaction. And I ask you, Mr. Mitsotakis: The transaction wants two. Why don't you name yourself? Who did I do this transaction with? With Mr. Juncker? With Mrs. Merkel? With Mr. McCrone? Who did I do this transaction with? This, however, beyond the fact that it is an unprecedented slip, also proves Mr Mitsotakis' false faith in the so-called European ideal, his confidence in Europe and in the European institutions. So, Mr Mitsotakis, is this the Europe in which you are struggling to stay? The Europe of cheap transaction? A Europe that is trading in order to win and gives in this terrible way issues that are critical and nationally important to a country in order not to reduce pensions? Mr. Mitsotakis, in the way you are conducting, you prove that you are not a European, but a European, with a Salvini and Orban account and with Michaloliaku slogans, unfortunately. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because Mr. Michalakos of the Golden Dawn first set this fabulous idea, this scenario. The next day, the same misery you repeated it at your conference. But there you went a step further. After Mr. Samaras, who remembered the days of the civil war and reproduced the slogans of the Golden Dawn, in relation to Mars Velouchoti and caviar and the other beautiful and cute things written by the golden people on their website, you went out and, after you repeated the misery about the transaction, you said something that I don't know if you understood when you said it. There's a possibility. You may not understand. You said "to end with SYRIZA, not for what he does but for what he believes". You know, Mr. Mitsotakis, the last time some people in this place decided to end with the Left for what they believe it was when they opened the toss and the prisons broke up and divided Greeks into nationalists and native traitors! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You're shaking your hand, because you obviously don't understand how hate these reports are hiding and how dissatisfiing that is your word. And after all this, you have the courage to come here today and move the finger on me and on my side, that we supposedly divide and assume that we are plunged, because we have our opinion, the different view on national issues, but of course our different view and on how society and the economy should go. Beyond this play of dissatisfaction and extreme polarization, on the occasion of the unacceptable and all convicted yesterday's bombing against a television station and a newspaper, acts and actions that are incomprehensible not to stand in a complete and clear way, you come here and neither too much nor too much do you blame me and SYRIZA as responsible for this development, because we have targeted, he says, the media and journalists. In short, you repeat this extreme and deplorable nonsense which has been heard yesterday, that the government is the moral author of terrorist action. We had to hear, Mr. Mitsotakis, such an extremist and disgusting accusation of a government, a political party and a Prime Minister since some extremists again in your party, your prolongation, in the 1980s, accused Andreas Papandreou as leader of "17 November". You've come to repeat it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u356	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u357	I know you're upset. In what sense do you repeat this? What's the match?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u358	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Kikilia, don't yell. Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u360	The reason why Mr Mitsotakis and those who say these extreme misery are that anyone who makes political criticisms or blames someone...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u361	Be quiet! What do you want? Why do you keep going? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u362	So the reasoning of this extreme attitude and position is as simple as this: anyone who makes political criticism or accuses anyone in political terms is targeting and arming the hand of the terrorists. That's what you're saying. If you say so, then, Mr. Mitsotakis, you and many of your colleagues and your resignation should have been the moral engineer of the attacks that almost every other week, Alekos Flamouraris, the Minister of State, who has burned his house three times and who were unfairly, as shown by the evolution of the judiciary, accused him of "subject to you". If this theory is true, that anyone who makes political criticism is guilty and morally self-sufficient, then you too are moral experts, because every other week we also have bombing mechanisms in SYRIZA offices or - to take it a little further and to remember that violence is not only resident in an ideological camp - you are also responsible for the fact that the mayor of Thessaloniki was beaten up a few months ago by nationalists or for desecration of the monuments of the city of Thessaloniki. So this is an incredibly slippery concept, which you must withdraw from political dialogue. I now come to what you have said once again about the crucial issue of the Prespecies Agreement and the prospect of restoring a conflict and a 30-year-old difference through this agreement. Because you spoke of the government of national retreats. It is well known to everyone, I think, that you have changed your position gradually since this debate started several times. It is also clear to everyone - as you say in Europe too - that your opposition to the substance of this agreement is a pretext, precisely because you do not want to break up your party because of the different views that exist on this subject, but of course you wish, by going to the electorate, to fish in the cloudy waters of the far-right audience and the nationalist audience. I will not go into the successive red lines you have raised on the issue of this agreement. I will only refer to your final red line. 'Cause just before we sign, the red line was to change their constitution. A little earlier, the red line was different. Now it is the so-called 'national' and 'language'. I think that the issue of language is an issue that has been analysed. After all, it is internationally recognized by the Conference of the United Nations in 1977, and the agreement itself expressly states that it is southern Slavic, which has nothing to do with the Greek language spoken by the Macedonians of the Greek part of Macedonia and which is the continuation of the ancient Greek tradition and heritage. On the subject of ethnicity and the nation you have constantly insisted on. In fact, you, who so well know the English language, since you studied abroad, are telling us that nationality is the same as ethnicity. It's not citzenship, it's not citizenship, it's ethnic. I imagine you will not have followed the constitutional review procedure in the neighbouring country lately. You may have learned, of course, but you have not commented on it, that any concerns which you first raised are allegedly a matter of a minority in Greece - the first thing that this agreement prevents - have completely left the scene through the amendment that has become a constitutional process and aligns the corresponding article with our own, speaking of dispersal rather than of a minority. So today, Mr Mitsotakis, there is a new amendment to the Skopje Parliament, tabled by some Members of the ruling party. What does this amendment say? This amendment says that what is set out in the Prespecies Agreement is citizenship and does not define or prejudge the nationality to which the citizens of Northern Macedonia belong, Mr Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And this amendment, Mr Mitsotakis, goes into constitutional law. We'll see if it's voted from two-thirds. If it is voted, will you go out publicly to say that everything you were saying four months ago is airplanes, are it words of air and you only do it to divide the Greek people and create climate? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I don't know if you're gonna do it. I'm guessing you won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u363	There's an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Athanasios, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u365	As far as your crowns for Albania are concerned, there's no reason to make the free man here for Albania now, that you supposedly raise the courage. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also made bilateral representations on this issue, but has also informed the European Union, with a message that, if there is no respect for the rights of the Greek minority, especially on the property, but also on the issue of the new Minorities Act, there will be no European course for the neighbouring country. And now to hide behind pretexts to continue this tactic, to "fish" that is to say, and to present the ultrapatriot, I think it is something that does not honor you and which will very quickly begin to be revealed in the eyes of the Greek people. I now come to the budget. I was saying that today is a day suitable for comparisons, because we received a country that was submerged in bankruptcy and submerged in financial suffocation four years ago, a country that had suffered a shock program of austerity and social disintegration, unprecedented, which is in world literature. And, of course, today we have the joy and excitement, as shown by the end of the speech of the Minister of Finance Euklidis Tsakalotou, to vote for the country's first Memorandum of Understanding after eight years. We received the country just after a five-year disaster, after a economic ruin, after a social Armageddon, and you come today and say we compare. Of course we can compare, Mr. Mitsotakis. You do not want, you say, to compare what happened in the first few years, between 2010 and 2012. I do not know, of course, whether Mr Venizelos and Mrs Gennimata agrees with that, but together you have ruled and have common responsibilities. Are you saying the same thing about the last four years? The New Democracy wasn't in the country's government when the deficit was ejected to 15%? What is the point, therefore, which is responsible for why we have entered the memorials and why we have been led in these five years to an unprecedented social Armageddon. But to compare, Mr Mitsotakis, if you want to compare, where we came from, what we received, how we got here. You have implemented - because you have done so together - austerity measures from 2010 to 2014, the EUR 65 billion catastrophic five-year period. You have cut pensions in this catastrophic five-year period for 40 billion euros. You launched unemployment from 11% to 28%. You reduced our national wealth by one quarter. What exactly do you want to compare? Where have you recently taken Mr. Samaras, the Prime Minister of destruction, and are you taking his achievements? Comparing what? Where did you leave a country destroyed and defeated as a long war, despite the fact that we were in a time of peace? We didn't do any war. So do you want us to compare the destructive 5 years 2010-2014 to the five-year recovery, reconstruction and regeneration of a society and an economy from the ashes of a society that you looted these five years? We are constantly told that you have voted for the worst Memorandum. Really, Mr. Mitsotakis? Would you like to compare the financial adjustment? I told you last week in detail, with numbers. If we include the positive measures of the social dividend in the last three years, we have indeed made a modest financial adjustment. If we include the dividend measures, it was around EUR 6.4 billion. You from 2010 to 2014 had total austerity measures of EUR 65 billion. What do you want to compare? The ‘65’ with ‘6,5’; Ten times as hard as your budgetary adjustment has been. What about the oxymobile? No results. What exactly should we compare? Do you think that the world to which you are addressing has forgotten these? At some point you got misled last year in your interview in Thessaloniki and said that you did not care about the substance, but communication. Languine language! It's not all communication in life. So when these people have experienced the possibility of gaining optimism for their future, do you think they will be able to save the nice homes you're building, which you encounter very randomly meet people who tell you what nice you are?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u366	Make an election, let's see!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u367	Is that what you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u368	It's close.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u369	The elections will also come, Mr. Mitsotakis. You've been asking them for three years. The elections will also come and we will see, indeed, how much waste the bag catches. Because in the elections the polls are not voting, but the people you looted and who in September 2019 will look more optimisticly at the future and the future of this place. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we, Mr Mitsotakis, have succeeded where three governments of the political system you represent and two programmes have already failed. We incompetent, as you said before, we amateurs, the unblemished, who are not from fireplaces and are not technocrats, have succeeded. That's what you can't digest anything after all. That's what you can't digest. For three years you've been constantly destroying yourself. You had chosen from the first day of your election the account of the destruction. You've been closing up for three years, too. I wish you'd multiply them as Chief of Antipopulation. Three years, as Chief of Antipopulation, you're being destroyed and asked for elections. You've invested everything in disaster. You didn't come out of the disaster. You have no record and you are constantly trying to make a reversible picture of reality to justify unjustified arguments and make arguments. But politics is a reality, it's not fantastic. For you are telling us what would happen if. This is the account: 'What if'. The citizens judge on the basis of what they have lived and on the basis of what they expect, of course. In our case there have been real governments representing two-dimensionally opposite political projects in Greece over the last eight years. They are your governments, KINAL - or PASOK, how to say I don't know, rather KINAL - New Democracy from 2010 to 2014 and we from 2015 to today. These things will be judged by the citizens. I would therefore like to start this comparison on the main size of the economy, which is the wealth produced. From 2010 to 2014, then, the middle of national wealth, this 25%, if we spread it over a five-year period, we will see that we had an average recession of about 5% every year in the years of the destructive five-year period. From 2015 to today what is the picture? The image is the reverse, Mr. Mitsotakis. In fact, the country at the end of 2018, now, is expected to complete two years of positive growth with the growth that reached 1.5% last year, this year more than 2% and is expected to grow even longer in 2019. So here they are talking about the data and not your unfounded assessments. As to the so-called cost of negotiating, you are telling us that it is 80, 100, another time 200, but that costs public debt does not appear anywhere. The supposed development explosion was before the gates, the world lived in 2014, waited for the explosion. Where they had 25% recession cumulatively over the last four years, people expected that, if Mr Samaras continued, they would suddenly have growth in 2015 at 5%. I'm sorry, but who are you kidding? How do you say these things to the Greek people? You who had the GDP shrinking record in the history of post-war Greece, how would you suddenly go to growth rates of 4% and 5%? Here is an interesting diagram, since you are referring to diagrams, showing the growth rate of Greek GDP over a high decade. From 1996 to 2010 the GDP rate was rising, it went down in the first memorandum years, from 2015 onwards to again. Of course, since you like to talk about the budgetary surplus and deficit, we see the course of the surplus and deficit, where all the previous years the general government deficit was negative even during the Olympic Games. It is another thing the primary surplus and the general government deficit. I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about the people who listen to us today. A positive sign, in the surplus of the general government, we only had a year ago. Keep these in the Minutes to study them. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So remember, if you want, what state you left the country in 2014 at this time. You sent the fifth evaluation to the bells, the programme based on the same institutions was a programme retrospectively off-road. Do you remember how far you have signed up to the surpluses in four years? You signed 4.5% and 4% by 2060 and blame us for 3.5% now and 2% since 2013 and then it's the fourth memorandum. So, what did you sign up for exactly? But that's not all. I told you you didn't succeed anywhere. Were you targeting a surplus in 2014 of 1.5%, and do you know how much you brought? Do you know what ELSTAT's evidence says? You brought 0.1%. Of course, the worst of all, and most criminal of what you have done, is that you have handed over to the next public funds, to us, insurance funds with super-fragile deficits - over 1 billion euros - and then you were carrying out this project of Mr Samaras' dreadful inspiration on a left-hand side. In fact, I remember that they were even government officials while you were still government, calling on the people ahead of the elections to take their statements from the banks. Did you forget that? In the end, in other words, your disastrous term of office, all you were interested in was undermining your political opponents and not the future of the country. Of course, you didn't come up with the plan of parentheses. We fought, we managed to reach a difficult compromise, as life proved, a fair compromise, because it had a prospect. You insist that you forget that immediately afterwards we called for the Greek people's crisis. Elections took place in September 2015 following the honest compromise following the difficult compromise. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We asked for the Greek people's vote to continue in another programme of difficulty and uproot, but with a view and, of course, the Greek people sent you back to the headquarters of Anti-Population. Really, let's go get some areas, because today I want to respond to four main issues, where you're trying to create a story, creating new myths. You have had the courage or courage - I don't know - to go out here today and talk about jobs and unemployment. I do not know how you can do this when, with your resignation on Mrs Samaras Prime Minister, we have reached 28% of unemployment. And who can take you seriously, when you're talking about jobs and jobs that you've got the answer how to bring them, when you've taken unemployment to 28% of the 11% that it was. And we in three and a half years since September 2015 have managed to deviate unemployment to 18.3% today, having created three hundred and fifty jobs. That's the reality. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You laughed at us about the Thessaloniki programme we talked about three hundred thousand jobs. This is the picture of unemployment and de-escalation. It rose sharply in the early years of the disaster, then deviated and today it has gradually reached 18%. The highest rate of unemployment, Mr. Mitsotakis, was in the first half of 2014 on the government of Samaras. Keep that, too. But, you know, most importantly, I would say that it is not that we managed to reduce unemployment by almost ten points from its highest rate, but that we also have a plan for the next day. That's what's critical. Because unemployment at 18.3% remains high, and as with a plan, it went from 28% to 18%, so our plan is gradually in the next two years, in the next two years, to reach 15% with the steady recovery of the economy and when we are going to complete the next four years that the Greek people will give us, we will finally reach the European instrument. That's our plan. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But, rather, unemployment and jobs are not your form. Let us catch another issue, which you consider to be a privileged field. Let's talk about the investments, which is your dress. Let us see the so - called idealism of our government toward investors. In 2017 was the year when the country recorded a decade on foreign direct investment, and so is expected to happen this year. Refer to the real facts and wonder why this happened. I would like to mention three areas, but it does not mean, of course, that mobility is not recorded in other sectors of the economy. Firstly, in the energy sector. The completion of the sale of DESFA with the public gaining substantial rights, the sale of 24% of IPTO and the retention of 51% under public control and the completion of transactions for the gas trading and infrastructure companies in Athens and Thessaloniki a few days ago. The new institutional framework for renewable energies, which can bring new production units into investment next year of EUR 2.5 billion over three years. These are only some elements of the very important work that has been done in the field of energy in recent years. In the construction industry you ask to see that it started building again. Take a picture of your partners. Get out, you guys running around, out on the streets to see what's going on. It was, of course, completed in the most difficult years, in the first few years, the roads, the ones that you had left in the middle and, in fact, were completed on much more favourable terms for the interests of the public, and yesterday the Minister for Infrastructure said that we were moving in 2019 towards a compromise for new projects of total budget of EUR 9.17 billion. Finally, in the tourism sector that has, in fact, played a leading role in the economy, where, apart from the multiple records every year, major private investments have been made, both in the high-demand islands and in Halkidiki, Crete and Athens. In Athens too, we have major investments, especially in the field of hotels. So we also had a very significant increase in the total number of quality tourists, which also contributes to the achievement of the tourist record but also to the strengthening of economic activity and employment. Also, to mention the areas that brought together the recent bill of the Ministry of Tourism and the incentives of the bill it gives for casinos. And at this point I would stress, because a lot of specole has fallen, that the Greek flagship project will start in spring 2019, after the competition for the casino and the resolution of some last bureaucratic problems. At the same time, investment and business developments also take place in a number of other sectors, such as health, logistics, telecommunications, Real Estate, food. Let's see some official evidence. According to data from the Statistical Authority, in 2017 net foreign direct investment amounted to EUR 3,59 billion. In the nine months of 2018, we are already at EUR 2.77 billion. This number, 3,59, I told you earlier that it was the biggest in the decade, i.e. before the crisis began, in 2008. So what did you guys do? Did you have better sizes? You who are experts and who, in any case, businessmen and investors are waiting for you to make the big cut in the Greek economy, what numbers did you have? You had smaller numbers and smaller odds than ours. Let's go down. Now that the record of the fourth memorandum has ended, I am following you with interest what you are trying to replace it, that is - you are not wrong, despite the fact that pensions have not been cut, even though this budget has positive measures now and not negatively - because Greece is supposedly a country excluded from the money markets, because loan interest rates are, in your assessment, banned. And here, this is the proof of our own failure. Let us say a few things here, ladies and gentlemen, in order to decouple another myth of counterpopulation and Mr Mitsotakis, because with myths he likes to feed in the last few years. So let us see how blocked and forbidden access to markets for the country is. Firstly, the participation of foreign investors in interest-rate issues, daily transactions in the secondary market and unexpected large participation of institutional and private investors in the exchange of PSI bonds, which took place a few months ago, shows whether we are excluded or not. Secondly, the interest and positive availability of investors for the forthcoming issues of Greek securities, as is apparent from the meetings and discussions of the financial staff and I with foreign investors in Greece and especially abroad. Thirdly - and listen to this a little - the decade's interest rate - because that is what you are looking at and not the total interest rate curve - of the ten-year bond ranges from the day we came out of the memorandum, a little over 4%, between 4.1% and 4.35%. That's about his variation. So why are we excluded from the markets? Why are you telling us that this ten-year bond price offers us an expensive loan, while while you had the country in the security of the International Monetary Fund, you had guaranteed cheaper borrowing. Really? A Member of your Parliament, even - once on the Potami I think, but now he's out of here - came out of this Step and said that we're eating the money from the'massouri' - so he called it the buffer that we secured - until he paid it, I don't know if he expressed any craving - the International Monetary Fund is back to lend us.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u370	Say the following. Why don't you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u371	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u372	What's wrong with you, ma'am? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u373	Please stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u374	What do you want, ma'am? Why are you uprising? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I will not say to you "go outside", as your Chief said before to the SYRIZA MPs, who have not even had the courage or the courage to go out and talk to the Chief of Staff. They've been watching me quietly, but you've been in a very big panic lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u375	It doesn't drown you right and I won't mention names. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u376	So the argument you refuse to hear, because it is not of interest to you, is not about what you said or did not say, ma'am, it is about the argument of your Chief, your new Chief, Mr Mitsotakis, because you are changing leaders from what seems to be very easy. So Mr Mitsotakis said that our lending is more expensive now and that is why it is weak, that the country's access to the money markets has been excluded. Now it's between 4.1% and 4.35%, while the IMF, where some of you want to go back to its hugs, was lending us with 4.9%. And I would remind you that the average coupon of the PSI bonds was of 4.7% and of the bonds held by the Eurosystem at about 5%. Or, to say this, before the crisis and before we enter this wave of memorials and the security of low lending, we borrowed cheaper and now we have an exact price on the Greek public bonds and, therefore, we are out of markets? So I show you the performance of the Greek ten-year bond from 2005 to 2018. Look at her, in 2005, in 2006, in 2007, in 2008, in 2009, before the crisis, she was just where she is today a little over 4%. And then we borrowed, and we weren't off the market. It was on average at that time, even if we included the year before entering the memorial that they started pinning, on average, 4.8%. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, then, is the other myth that we are excluded from the markets, while the cost of our obligations, which we have to replace next year, is from 4.5% to 5%. Now we're locked out with a bond at 4.35%. Where does this ban on the markets appear, therefore, that we have not been on the market, and that is a sign of our failure? And look at the quality elements. The medium-term borrowing rate is 1.73%, the medium-term interest rate in eighteen-and-a-half years, while the annual service costs are the lowest in the whole of the European Union. In the report on the sustainability of the Greek debt by the institutions, lastly, it was stressed that, in order to be sustainable, the cost of refinancing should be less than 5% in the five-year bond, not in the ten-year period. Do you know how much the five-year bond is today? At 3.45%. When you tried out and the pilot, as you said and presented it as a success, it was with 5% close. So how is Greece excluded from the markets? Because you are constantly creating myths in order to create a false picture of the Greek people, but at the same time discredit the course of the country and the Greek economy abroad. The buffer you mentioned, the 'xilari', the'masouri', as you say, has been created with a capital stock that exceeds EUR 26 billion in agreement with the institutions, against the idea, which I do not know if you have officially expressed, Mr Mitsotakis - flirtattas and you and many of your resignation have spoken of this idea, but it is certainly the central banker, I know that - we should go to a credit line, a preventive one. What did a preventive credit line mean, however, and why do we hide this from the Greek people? New MOU, new Memorandum. That's what it meant. So here's what we've achieved. We have managed to get the country out of hand, we have managed to have access and access to the markets, as we had before the memoranda. Of course, it will fall even further when the international situation, and I refer to Italy as well as to the emerging markets, shape the terms which deviate the Italian bond and other bonds. And this buffer doesn't have it to spend, but just to have the luxury of judging when we're going out on the best terms on the markets. And be sure, Mr Mitsotakis, we will not move, like you, on communal terms, or think you are pressing on this issue. We will move as the public interest determines and not as your own need for communication and stimulation moves, and we will go out to the markets again as should be at a very good interest rate. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There goes the second myth. Let's go to another your favorite, and that's theme, the extremes of taxation and insurance. Look, to be honest, extremist charges are one thing, but the one for whom they are extreme charges is a second thing. So now I would like to thank you and the newspaper Kathimerini, which was headlined last week by a valid publication, which you mentioned, which said that with the new income tax framework, 19% of natural persons pay around 90% of the total amount. Watch out, though, if we reverse the image and the numbers, if we reverse our vision, based on simple mathematics, what does that mean? That 81% of natural persons pay only 10% of the total cost. Accordingly, you have also spoken today about the burden on HISPIA, that 33% pays 66%. So if we take it vice versa, it means the large majority, 66% pays 33%. Here we are, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, because in Greece, in SYRIZA it cannot be developed and a movement similar to the 'yellow vests' of France will not be developed. Because we didn't just get the country out of the memorials, but we managed to get it out of the memorials by sharing the burdens - yes, the weights - but fair, justice. They were the most burdened. The large majority has been reduced. And now, of course, we have another difficult task to do, to share the benefits fairly. On the contrary, you, Mr Mitsotakis, always speak and plan a policy on behalf of a small portion of people in this area, the most burdened, but with an obvious aim of reducing the burdens of the majority. Therefore, in the general interest, in the interests of the very high, higher income layers. That's your ideology, that's your political plan. The prosperity of the above and the impoverishment of the rest. As far as insurance is concerned, let me place myself with only two elements. With the old system, before the "Performant" Katorugalou Law - so you said, "loving", and all these very nice secular surnames - with the old system, therefore, up to 200 euros paid three out of ten insured people. Now with our own insurance, up to 200 euros pay nine out of ten insurers. So one out of ten is actually more burdened, but nine out of ten pay less. So that is our difference, ladies and gentlemen. We're with the nine out of ten, and you're with one. We're with the many, and you're with the few and the chosen ones. That's our difference. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But we, ladies and gentlemen, have a vision and a plan and an absolute commitment and support to the social majority. This plan is therefore reflected in the 2019 budget. We are getting the country out of the crisis with society upright and planning the reconstruction of the social state that you have broken up, gentlemen of the New Democracy. In the area of social security and solidarity, the non-reduction of pensions is known. It is now known that we also have an increase in pensions for six hundred and twenty thousand of our fellow citizens. We have support for social welfare and an increase of 75% in relation to the 2018 budget, the welfare funds and 408% in relation to the 2015 budget. We have the maintenance of the Social Solidarity Income currently enjoying six hundred and twenty thousand beneficiaries, an income that changed the picture and for the first time since the crisis began, extreme poverty and child poverty have been reduced. Mr. Juliarakis referred to this. We have the roof allowance universally for the first time. The program will be implemented by the relevant law that we will bring in 2019, which will cover more than three hundred thousands of families. We have the upgrade of the 'Help at Home' Programme, which transforms the current working regime of fixed-term workers into an indefinite one. Parliament has already adopted a resolution on the proclamation of three thousand permanent permanent staff. We have a reduction in insurance contributions and the grant of contributions for young people up to twenty-five years of age that we have already legislated. We have our clear support for islanders, who until now were completely isolated, with the universal application of the transport equivalent from the new year. It was a request for decades. In the field of education, however, we also have the recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers and qualified staff in place of staff in special education now covered by fixed-term contracts. We have the recruitment of fifteen thousand permanent teachers in three years 2019-2021 thanks to the implementation, for the first time after the memoranda, of the "one to one", which we adopted with struggle - and you want to bring him back to "one to five" as far as the entire general government is concerned - where we really have a huge need for permanent staff, i.e. secondary teachers. You will find out tomorrow during - and then - the Ministerial Council, where we will always decide within the framework of the AACC - on the competitive procedures for these recruitments. But it's not just recruitment. It is also the continued increase in expenditure on education and research since 2015. In particular, for 2019, the amount of EUR 5,5 billion in the budget is estimated, showing aid of 4.2% compared to 2018. However, if we calculate how much we have increased expenditure since 2015 - from your budget - to education, these are increased from 2015 to 2019 by 722 million. The same and even more positive for the investigation. Total expenditure on research and development in the country is growing. From 0.83% of GDP in 2014 we have reached 1.3%, approaching, at a rapid pace, to 2% which is the Community average. At the same time, within the first few months of 2019, a new procedure will be initiated for the management of non-regulated, accumulated and overdue private sector debts for both public and insurance debts. The new regulation will concern cases that do not fall under the extrajudicial compromise, it will be flexible, without too bureaucratic burdens, and the doses can reach by up to a hundred and twenty. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are also moving forward in extending and correcting the extrajudicial compromise and in 2019, having already proceeded with simplifying the procedure, which has speeded up the resolution of cases, while, at the same time, we are also considering new proposals to further simplify the procedure. Finally, as far as the first home is concerned, we are planning a new, permanent protection framework and the state's contribution through the budget. This new framework will involve both the public and the banks, which will be asked to participate, but also the borrowers. The State's contribution to monthly repayments of loans by providing standardised solutions and incentives on the banks' side will, we believe, bring about three very important objectives. Firstly, maintaining the basic asset for households which is the first house - and this is the most important - secondly, at the same time the gradual conversion of red loans into service, which will help further reorganise bank balances and free capital to finance the economy and, thirdly, to maintain and strengthen the level of social cohesion, which is essential for the country's fair, sustainable and long-term development. Ladies and gentlemen, by reaching the first Memorandum of Understanding and having passed these great difficulties over the years, it is clear to all of us that Greece is going through reconstruction. Greece is changing season. And our vision is clear to the dynamic development of the Greek economy, to ensure fiscal stability and to avoid risks that it may face. We see them in front of us - we have an unstable global economy - the dangers faced by Greece in 2009-2010 and entered this adventure. We are moving forward with the increase in wages, both of the lowest and of the total, because for us wage increases are a tool for growth, it is a precondition for growth, not a consequence of growth, as some people say here. And, of course, this means increasing the purchasing power of the citizens, so also of consumption. We proceed with the support and upgrading, as I told you, of the social state, of education, of solidarity, of the major institutional areas with the Constitutional Review, of rationalisation of relations between the State and Church immediately after, in 2019, the newly upgraded position of Greece in the world and its neighbourhood first and foremost. These are the axes of our plan for Greece of the memorial era, for Greece of the next day in a Europe that today lies between two historical possibilities: Or a new social contract will be concluded on the basis of justice, equality and solidarity, or the inequalities will be deepened, racism will gain another ground and social explosions will also be fuelled. On the one hand, we have the example of Greece, Spain and Portugal today with the increase in wages, the protection of labour, the support of the social state, the expansion of individual rights and freedoms, and on the other hand, we have other models that we see from right-wing extremes who come to power, which I do not know if you admire them, Mr Mitsotakis. Can I tell you something, though? All of these - and Salvini and Orban and Kurts - had a record that, apart from the easy folklore approach, it was all foreigners who were to blame, it was based on a supposedly antisystemicism. I wonder how much you can rely on such a record that you are the most genuine representative of the political system in the country, of this system that has led us to rocks and bankruptcy. But I'd like to tell you something by closing down. You say that SYRIZA must be defeated for what he believes, as I have said at the outset. We don't want to lose you for what you think. Not because we are naturally opposed to any intolerance to different ideas and opinions, but above all because we want you to be defeated for what you have done in previous years and for what we know you will do if you return. Not for your ideas. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We say that you must be defeated again, because if you are not defeated, you will be destroying the social state again, we will return to the age of five in the hospitals and at the time when uninsured people did not have access to health. You'll shrink the wages again. You will reinstate deregulation in the labour market and accumulate new deficits and debts in the insurance funds. You will reinstate the tax regime of the great wealth. You will apply - you have declared it - a Pinochet insurance and new pension cuts. You will maintain immunity status for ministers controlled for acts against the public interest. You will do again - and this is the worst - Greece is a country that is enclosed, fearful and out of international developments, because, as you say, you do not want it to be the leaders of the Balkans. You want Northern Greece to have the back in the neighbouring countries and you want to have a different line from the one that made us proud in Europe, the one we had in the refugee sector. You want to sow hate and split. That is why we say you must lose, not your ideas. And you should know, Mr Mitsotakis, that the one who ultimately will judge us and the one who will not let this return to the place take place, this reconfiguration, is the Greek people, the Greeks and the Greeks who see the future again in their own hands, that the country is gaining confidence and vision, becoming more just, more modern, more democratic, more social. In 2019 we believe it dawns for this Greece as the first year of its modern regeneration. I would therefore like to say this frankly, ladies and gentlemen of the majority - listening to what Euclid said by closing his speech, to say this: we have passed forty waves and left standing. I want to personally thank each and every one of the Members of the government majority... [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] ...because from now on things are easier for you, but what you spent these three and a half years was indeed a "Odyssey". And I would like to invite you to vote on the country's first Memorandum of Understanding, the first budget of budgetary expansion after eight whole years of austerity, our first, your budget, the first budget of a Greek free again, reconstructed, optimistic and above all a more just Greece, which will move forward. We owe it to the next generations, we owe it to the citizens who, thanks to their own sacrifices, come out of the memoranda and from the crisis. We will complete our work and have before us the possibility of a new mandate from the Greek people, so that we can go further ahead with Greece and further support the forces of society, on which we have been counting for all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u378	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget for the financial year 2019 has come to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u380	The debate on the state budget for the financial year 2019 is closed and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u381	I want the floor on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u382	Sit down! You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u383	This is your democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u384	The budget for the revenue and expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic and of each Ministry shall be voted on by roll-call electronic vote. As is well known, all the Ministries and the Presidency of the Republic have only costs, except for the Ministry of Finance which also has revenues with the budget. The state budget includes the budget of Parliament, which has not been re-examined by the House, since the Parliament's budget, as approved by the House at its meeting of KZ/15-11-2018, is, under the Rules of Procedure, enforceable and has been registered without any change in the general budget of the State. We would like to point out that the vote includes the revenue from the budget, the expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic and the nineteen ministries. A total of twenty-one. Each time on the screen there are up to four Ministries to vote. To vote and the rest you have to "rol" the touch screen. There is the possibility of voting in favour or voting against all the Ministries' expenditure, by choosing "NAH", "OH" or "APHON", which appear on the front line of your screen. Also, you can correct your vote by choosing the relevant Ministry. At the top right of the screen the number of Ministries left to vote is shown each time. Those who accept the revenues of the budget, as well as the costs of each of the Ministry and of the Presidency of the Republic, vote 'NEI' and those who do not accept them vote 'NO'. Those who do not vote 'NAH', nor do they vote 'OH'. Make sure that you have voted for all twenty separate votes. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask my fellow Members to remain in the Chamber until the electronic voting system is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there will also be a separate vote, with the opening, on the budget of public investment and attached budgets, as well as on the budgets of the Decentralised Administrations referred to in Article 2 of the bill. Those of you who do not have your card will vote in the ballot. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u385	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter has been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which makes its vote known on the budget. This vote will be recorded and taken into account in the electronic count, which will be followed. The letter, which was sent to the Bureau by my colleague, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u386	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter by Mr Ioannis Kefaloniann, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he were here, he would vote in accordance with the vote of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u388	In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, to shorten the time of the sitting, if you have no objection, I would ask you to proceed with the vote with a move on the budget for the public investment and the attached budgets, as well as on the budgets for the Decentralised Administrations. Does this House accept the Public Investment Budget and Approved Budgets for the financial year 2019? Please, those who accept to rise. [[Receivables]] Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. The House has therefore admitted. [[After ELECTRONIC OBSERVATION]] Does the House accept the regular budget of the Decentralised financial year 2019? [[Receivables]] Evidently, most of them were in favour of acceptance. The House has therefore admitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u389	Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u390	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the State Budget for the financial year 2019’ was accepted, in a single debate, under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote that took place on the state budget was concluded. Please authorise the Bureau to confirm the minutes of its meetings of 12, 13, 14, 17 and 18 December 2018, including the debate and the budget vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u392	The requested authorisation was therefore granted. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2018-12-18-S1-commons.u393	With the consent of the House at 22.48 p.m. the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 19 December 2017, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, only discussion and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Environmental arrangements of the Ministry of Environment and Energy - Clearing it from 20.11.2018 Convention between the Greek Government and companies ENERGEAN OIL AND GAS - ENERGY AEGEAN AEGEAN REGIONAL INSTITUTION FOR RESEARCH AND PRODUCTION OF HYDROGONDRAKS AND CALA OIL ANONIZIA, amending the Convention on the exploitation of Hydrocarbons in the maritime area of Thrace between the Greek Government and OIL ANONIA which has been ratified by 23.11.1999 in accordance with the agenda.
